DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder, Under the 2015 Share Scheme all employees including Executive Directors who are determined by the Board as eligible who meet the qualifying conditions and performance On behalf of the Board, I am again pleased to present our report on the remuneration criteria as determined and agreed by the Remuneration Committee and the Board will be strategy and policy of the Company at the end of yet another very successful year.
We firmly able to participate.
The terms of the 2015 Share Scheme provide for the grant of nil-cost believe that this continued success is strongly connected with the introduction of our Share options over up to 25m ordinary shares in the Company amounting to approximately Schemes in 2009 and 2011, and now our 2015 Share Scheme.
The schemes are designed 4.2% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Senior Executive grants are limited to to encourage, recognise and reward outstanding performance and to drive shareholder value.
a maximum of one million shares each.
The vesting of any options would be conditional The remuneration policy of the Company is aligned to its commercial strategy for long-term, upon the achievement by the Company of four Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets before scheme costs set by the Committee.
If these performance targets are all met, 25% of consistent and profitable growth.
The remuneration package for Senior Executives is highly any award would vest following the announcement of the Companys audited results for weighted towards performance-related remuneration, paid mostly in shares, and its design FY19 in July 2019 and 75% of the award would vest following the announcement of the is consistent with the reward philosophy for the wider workforce.
This strategy is reflective Companys audited results for FY21 in July 2021.
When the Scheme was approved the of an extremely strong Executive and employee performance culture and a reward ethos of Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets before scheme costs were: i FY16 480m: ii One Team.
The Company philosophy is that Executive remuneration should be simple, transparent and Specifically tailored to Company culture and our growth strategy we continue to review directly support the delivery of the business strategy and shareholder returns.
The Executive the robustness of the Scheme.
The Remuneration Committee considered these targets Directors basic salaries have been deliberately set at a level well below the lower quartile to be extremely stretching, dependent on strong organic growth and to a degree on an of a business of the size and complexity of the Group.
Indeed Dave Forseys salary has aggressive acquisitions strategy.
However, as we enter FY16 it is clear, and also understood remained the same since 2002 and again will not increase in FY16.
Also, the Senior by the market, that planned acquisitions in FY15 did not fully materialise.
As such, the Executives currently enjoy no additional benefits from the Company.
Committee believes the FY16 Adjusted Underlying EBITDA target of 480m to now be an The Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus.
Rather, to drive sustained long-term unreasonably challenging one.
Following its recent review the Committee now recommends business performance, instead of granting smaller awards on an annual basis, larger upfront to shareholders a revised FY16 Adjusted Underlying EBITDA target of 420m.
This compares awards are granted which only vest if significant and consistent growth is delivered year to the 383m EBITDA achieved in FY15 i. e. the delivery of c. 10% growth in one year.
Annual performance targets which must be hit ensure a focus is maintained on other targets for the further three years of the Scheme currently remain the same.
As noted a consistent and long-term profitable growth strategy.
The extended time horizon for the in the FY15 preliminary results announcement, the Remuneration Committee will continue to vesting of awards for the 2011 Executive Share Scheme is six years in 2017 and for the review the robustness of the Scheme on an annual basis.
Whilst the Committee considered full vesting of the 2015 Share Scheme it is also six years in 2021. there to be some leeway for making such an adjustment within the Scheme rules without 44 shareholder approval it decided that this change should be put to shareholders as an ordinary Clear, published and stretching annual performance targets must be fully satisfied before resolution at the Companys AGM in September 2015.
Furthermore we have also added a any of the share awards vest.
Aligned to the Companys high performance culture, the Share provision for clawback to the scheme in addition to the existing malus provision to enable Schemes are designed on the basis that awards should vest in full for achieving stretching the Company to recover bonuses paid pursuant to the Scheme for 12 months post vesting in targets i. e. with an `all or nothing vesting schedule rather than providing for a lower level the event of serious financial misconduct by any Executive Director.
of vesting for meeting a threshold target rising to full vesting for achieving the stretch targets i. e. a scaled vesting schedule.
Because the Executive Directors remuneration opportunity In our Remuneration Policy we also indicated that Mike Ashley, despite being eligible to is highly weighted towards performance-related remuneration which will not vest if stretching participate in the 2015 Share Scheme, following discussions with the Committee informed performance targets aligned with the business strategy are not met, they share risk with the Company that he did not wish to participate in the 2015 Share Scheme and as such the shareholders.
The size of these performance-only awards should be considered in this the Committee decided to make no award to Mike Ashley under the 2015 Share Scheme.
Subsequently the Committee has now formally removed the ability of Mike Ashley to participate in the Scheme.
The Remuneration Committee firmly believes that this simple and very transparent share incentive framework is totally aligned with both the Company strategy for growth and its In addition Mike Ashley informed the Company and the Committee that he did not expect performance culture.
We also believe that this strategy has directly driven the historic outany share based incentive scheme to be proposed to shareholders in relation to his role as an performance of stretch targets originally set by the Committee by further aligning Executive Executive Director while the 2015 Share Scheme is in place.
He remains fully committed to and employee remuneration potential to increased and on-going shareholder value.
This achieving the stretching targets of the Scheme.
It should be noted that Mike Ashley has not increased share value incentive has also led to a further lifting of the performance bar for received any remuneration from the Company since before the public offering in February future awards.
2007, nor has he participated in either of the Executive Share Schemes.
There is no doubt that the inception of the current remuneration strategy in 2009 has clearly It remains our intention to continue with the existing transparent, highly performance-geared led to strong shareholder value increases during a difficult economic period, and it has remuneration policy for our Executives, i. e. low salary, no annual bonus or additional provided a strong platform for the on-going and long-term success of the Company.
benefits, and the 2015 Share Scheme allows us to continue on this path.
During FY14 the Remuneration Committee re-assessed the shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and determined that the Executive Directors must now hold a minimum Dave Singleton of 50,000 shares while they remain employed by the Company.
Dave Forseys shareholding Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 24 April 2015 meant that he satisfied the guideline.
As an acting Board member, Matt 16 July 2015 Pearson is not currently required to satisfy the shareholding guideline.
If his appointment becomes permanent, Matt Pearson would be expected to acquire the minimum number of shares over a reasonable time period determined by the Commitee.
On 2 July 2014, we were pleased to announce that the resolution to approve the 2015 Share Scheme was passed, with a majority of shareholders eligible to vote on the resolution voting in favour the Executive Directors elected not to vote and it was then included in our Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM in September 2014.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This part of the report sets out the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, which, subject to shareholder approval, shall take binding effect from the date of the 2015 AGM.
The Policy is determined by the Committee.
For ease of reference, this part of the report highlights where the policy differs from the policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
FUTURE POLICY TABLE The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors.
ELEMENT OF PURPOSE LINK TO OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE MEASURES CHANGES TO POLICY REMUNERATION STRATEGY APPROVED AT THE 2014 AGM BASE SALARY Fixed element of the remuneration Base salaries are normally reviewed annually and have not been increased Although salaries for Executive Directors other than Mike Not applicable.
package, where the balance of since 2002.
Ashley, who does not currently receive a salary and Matt fixed and variable remuneration is Pearson who has been appointed as an acting Board member Mike Ashley does not currently receive a salary for his role.
aligned to the commercial strategy have been set at 150,000 since 2002, the Company retains of long-term profitable growth and discretion to set salaries at a level commensurate with other reflects the Company remuneration companies of a similar size and complexity as the Company.
philosophy of gearing reward to Matt Pearsons salary will be reviewed during FY16 to take performance with a sharing of risk account of his role as an acting Board member or if his between Executive Directors appointment becomes permanent.
Salaries for new Executive Directors will be set in accordance with the Committees approach to recruitment remuneration, as described on pages 47 to 48.
BENEFITS Not applicable for current Executive The current Executive Directors do not receive any additional benefits.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee has not set an absolute Not applicable.
There is currently no intention to change this whilst the Executive Share maximum level of benefits Executive Directors may receive, Scheme and 2015 Share Scheme remain in place.
the Company retains discretion to set benefits at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate against the Benefits may be provided in line with market practice to recruit a new market and to support the on-going strategy of the Company.
Executive Director taking into account individual circumstances.
Such benefits may include relocation expenses.
RETIREMENT Provide post-employment benefits to The Executive Directors are entitled to participate in a stakeholder pension The current maximum employer contribution to the stakeholder Not applicable.
BENEFITS recruit and retain individuals of the scheme on the same basis as other employees.
calibre required for the business.
The Company retains the discretion to set retirement benefits including pension contributions and or a salary supplement in lieu of a pension contribution for any Executive Directors in accordance with the Committees approach to recruitment remuneration, as described on page 47.
ANNUAL BONUS Not applicable as Executive Directors The Committee has determined that no annual bonus scheme will be No annual bonus opportunity for an Executive Director who Not applicable for so long as Executive No changes.
45 do not participate in an annual operated for Executive Directors while the 2015 Share Scheme is in place.
participates in the 2015 Share Scheme for so long as that Directors do not participate in an annual bonus scheme.
If that Scheme is not in place for example bonus scheme.
if one of the Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets is not met so If an Executive Director does participate in that awards under that Scheme lapse the Committee may an annual bonus scheme, performance will award an annual bonus opportunity of up to 200% of base be assessed against one or more metrics salary.
The Committee will not award such a bonus opportunity determined by the Committee and linked to and grant an award under the Executive Share Scheme as the Companys strategy, with the weighting referred to below.
between the metrics determined by the The annual bonus opportunity for any newly recruited Committee.
Bonuses will be determined Executive Director will be set in accordance with the between 0% and 100% of the maximum Committees approach to recruitment remuneration as opportunity based on the Committees described on pages 47 to 48. assessment of the applicable metrics.
LONG-TERM To recognise and reward outstanding 2015 Share Scheme: 2015 Share Scheme Stretching performance targets are set The Adjusted INCENTIVE PAY performance of the Executives and The 2015 Share Scheme was approved by shareholders at a General Awards over no more than 25 million shares may be granted reflecting the business priorities that Underlying EBITDA 2015 SHARE to drive underlying Group EBITDA in Meeting of the Company in July 2014.
Awards may be granted under under the 2015 Share Scheme.
target for 2016 has SCHEME AND line with Group strategy and align the Scheme to Executive Directors on an annual or more frequent basis.
been amended from No more than 1m shares subject to such adjustment as 2015 Share Scheme: EXECUTIVE Executive Directors interests with the However, in accordance with the Companys policy of granting larger 480m to 420m.
the Committee determines to reflect any variation in the Awards under the 2015 Share Scheme are SHARE SCHEME interests of shareholders in bringing upfront awards which only vest if significant and consistent growth is Companys share capital may be awarded to any Executive subject to satisfactory personal performance Awards are now consistent long-term profitable growth delivered year on year, one award may be granted under the Scheme Director other than Mike Ashley who has been formally and will only vest if the following Adjusted subject to to the Company.
to any Executive Director during the period for which it is proposed this removed from participation in the 2015 Share Scheme.
Underlying EBITDA targets before scheme clawback provisions.
Directors Remuneration Policy shall apply, with vesting subject to the costs are met: Executive Share Scheme satisfaction of the EBITDA targets set out in the 2015 Share Scheme Any award granted to an Executive Director under the FY16: 420m measured over a period of four financial years.
75% of an award is subject Executive Share Scheme during the period for which it is FY17: 570m to a further deferral period such that it will vest in 2021 with 25% FY18: 650m proposed this Directors Remuneration Policy shall apply would vesting in 2019. be over a maximum of 1m shares subject to such adjustment FY19: 750m After Mike Ashley informed the Committee that he wished to withdraw as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the For these purposes, Adjusted Underlying from the scheme, the Committee formally removed him.
EBITDA means Underlying EBITDA as Unvested Awards are subject to malus provisions, such that the Committee reported in the Companys published has the discretion to reduce, cancel or impose further conditions on the accounts for the relevant year after such awards in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results, adjustments as the Committee material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage.
These performance Clawback provisions give the Committee discretion to recover amounts paid conditions may be amended in accordance to Executive Directors for up to 12 months post vesting in the event of with the rules of the 2015 Share Scheme as serious financial misconduct.
approved by shareholders in July 2014, as Executive Share Scheme: further referred to on page 46.
The Executive Share Scheme was approved by shareholders at the Annual Executive Share Scheme: General Meeting in September 2010.
The Committee may grant further Any award granted under the Executive awards under this Scheme if the 2015 Share Scheme is not in place for Share Scheme would be subject to stretching example, if one of the Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets is not met so performance targets determined by the that awards under the 2015 Share Scheme lapse.
Mike Ashley is not Committee based on Adjusted Underlying eligible to be granted awards under the Executive Share Scheme.
EBITDA, which would be disclosed in the Any award granted under the Executive Share Scheme would be subject Directors Remuneration Report following the to malus and clawback provisions on a comparable basis to those that will grant of any such award.
apply to awards granted under the 2015 Share Scheme.
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The table below sets out an overview of the approach to remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
PURPOSE LINK TO STRATEGY APPROACH OF THE COMPANY Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The Committees Remuneration Policy in respect of the Non-Executive Directors is to pay annual fees which reflect the responsibilities and duties placed upon them, while also having regard to market Provide an appropriate reward to attract and retain Directors of the calibre required for the business.
Non-Executive Directors receive a fixed annual fee.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any bonus or share schemes.
Non-Executive Directors may be eligible for benefits such as the use of secretarial support, travel costs or other benefits that may be appropriate.
INFORMATION SUPPORTING THE POLICY TABLE Prior to the introduction of the 2015 Share Scheme, awards were granted to Executive Directors under the Executive Share Scheme.
One award held by an Executive Director remains outstanding under the Executive Share Scheme as referred to on page 51.
Other than where the 2015 Share Scheme is not in place for example, if one of the Adjusted Underlying EBITDA targets is not met so that awards under the 2015 Share Scheme lapse or where an award is to be granted in connection with the recruitment of an Executive Director as referred to on page 47, no further awards will be granted to Executive Directors of the Company under the Executive Share Scheme during the period for which this policy applies.
The Committee may amend the terms of the Executive Share Scheme, the 2015 Share Scheme or any awards granted under them within the scope defined in the rules of those schemes including in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger or special dividend which may, in the Committees opinion, affect the current or future value of shares and may elect to settle awards under those schemes in cash.
EXPLANATION OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES CHOSEN For the 2015 Share Scheme, underlying Group EBITDA is chosen because it is a measure that provides a simple and transparent basis on which to measure the Companys performance over the longer term and to provide alignment with the Companys business strategy.
In addition, the Committee considers it to be a robust measurement of sustained earnings growth for shareholders.
This measurement has been consistently and publicly used by the Company as a performance measure since the floatation in 2007.
In respect of each relevant year, the Committee will adjust reported underlying Group EBITDA as it considers appropriate.
Underlying Group EBITDA is calculated prior to any charges relating to any share scheme s outstanding at the relevant time.
46 In accordance with the rules of the 2015 Share Scheme, performance conditions may be amended or substituted if events occur such as a change of strategy, a material acquisition or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions including the non-materialisation of planned acquisitions which cause the Committee to consider that a substituted or amended performance condition would be more appropriate and would not be materially more or less difficult to satisfy than the original performance condition but for the event in question.
As noted in the FY15 preliminary results announcement, the Committee will continue to review the robustness of the Scheme on an annual basis, and the targets may be adjusted, in accordance with the Scheme rules and this Policy, if events occur, as referred to above.
EXPLANATION OF DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES The Company has a large number of employees with different responsibilities and differing levels of seniority.
Reward policies for employees other than Executive Directors are determined by reference to grade, role, performance and other relevant factors.
The Committee does not consult with the wider workforce about the remuneration policy for Directors.
However, the Committee has reviewed the salaries, other remuneration and other employment conditions of senior and middle managers throughout the Group, and has taken them into account in considering Directors salaries and the creation of new incentive schemes in order to create a sense of common purpose and sharing of success.
Indeed, in order to reflect the Companys One Team ethos, the 2015 Share Scheme applies to both Executives and employees determined by the Board as eligible who meet the qualifying conditions as determined and agreed by the Committee and the Board on the same basis including the performance conditions.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The charts below set out an illustration of the policy for 2015 16 in line with the future policy table above.
The charts provide an illustration of the total remuneration opportunity that could arise under three different levels of performance.
No chart is included for Mike Ashley, who does not receive any remuneration from the Company and does not participate in any share scheme.
For the purposes of the adjacent chart, the following assumptions have been made.
DAVE FORSEY 2,500 FIXED PAY 2015 SHARE SCHEME 2,000 Minimum remuneration Base salary of 150,000.
92% 1,500 Performance in line with expectations No employer pension contribution No vesting, because rewards under the as Dave Forsey has opted out of Executive Share Scheme vest on an 1,000 the Companys stakeholder all or nothing basis for achieving the pension scheme.
upper end of stretch targets.
500 150 150 Maximum remuneration No benefits as no benefits were See note below.
0 Minimum Performance in line Maximum provided to the current Executive Performance with expectations Performance Directors in FY15.
Base salary, benefits & pension 2015 Share Scheme For the purposes of this chart, it has been assumed that Dave Forsey is granted an award over 1 million shares, as referred to in the policy table on page 45.
The value of the award is then calculated based on a share price of 7.37 being the price at the close of business on 14 July 2015 when this report was approved by the Committee and one quarter of this value is then shown, representing the intention to grant one award under the 2015 Share Scheme, the vesting of which will be subject to EBITDA performance targets measured over a period of four financial years FY16, FY17, FY18 and FY19.
The vesting of an award is conditional upon the achievement by the Company of all four EBITDA targets under the 2015 Share Scheme.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Total remuneration 000 MATT PEARSON 150 130 For the purposes of the adjacent chart, the following assumptions have been made.
110 90 FIXED PAY 2015 SHARE SCHEME 48% 60.6 60.6 Minimum remuneration Base salary of 60,000.
70 Performance in line with expectations An employer pension contribution of No vesting, because rewards under the 50 1% of salary.
Executive Share Scheme vest on an 30 all or nothing basis for achieving the upper end of stretch targets.
10 Maximum remuneration No benefits as no benefits were See note below -10 provided to the current Executive Minimum Performance in line Maximum Performance with expectations Performance Directors in 2014 2015.
Base salary, benefits & pension 2015 Share Scheme As an acting Board member this chart reflects Matt Pearsons terms and conditions existing at the time of his interim appointment.
The chart therefore assumes he is granted an award over 30,000 shares consistent with his current package.
As noted on page 50, Matt Pearsons salary and the level of award under the 2015 Share Scheme will be reviewed by the Committee during FY16.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment of a new Executive Director, the Committee will apply the following principles: given that the high gearing of reward for performance over a long period and a low basic salary may result in a cash flow issue for any new Executive Director, the intention is to move the Director appropriately and in a timely manner onto an equal footing with other Executive Directors: the package will be sufficient to attract the calibre of Director required to deliver the Companys strategy: the Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary: and in the next Annual Report on remuneration, the Committee will explain to shareholders the rationale for the arrangements implemented.
47 The Committee will ordinarily seek to implement the remuneration package in accordance with the elements referred to in the policy table on pages 45 and 46.
The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside that policy including the ability to grant awards under the Executive Share Scheme to meet the individual circumstances of the recruitment, subject to the limits and parameters of this recruitment remuneration section of the Directors Remuneration Report.
ELEMENT APPROACH Base salary and Aligned with the policy set out in the policy table on page 45 if the new Executive Director participates in the 2015 Share Scheme at the same level as existing benefits Executive Directors other than Mike Ashley.
Retirement Aligned with the policy set out in the policy table on page 45 if the new Executive Director participates in the 2015 Share Scheme.
Otherwise, up to 20% of salary benefits paid to a pension arrangement or paid as a supplement to base salary in lieu of a pension arrangement until the new Executive Director joins that scheme.
2015 Share The Remuneration Committees intention is for a newly-appointed Executive Director to participate in the 2015 Share Scheme with an award of up to 1 million Scheme shares subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any variation in the Companys share capital i. e. up to the maximum level referred to in the policy table, but reduced to reflect the new Executive Directors shortened period of service.
Variable In recognition of the fact that a newly appointed Executive Directors award under the 2015 Share Scheme would not vest until 2019, the Committee may award remuneration a newly appointed Executive Director an award over up to 1 million shares subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the Companys share capital under the Executive Share Scheme or a similar scheme, the vesting of which would be subject to the same performance conditions as apply to existing awards under the Executive Share Scheme or other stretching performance conditions determined by the Committee.
In addition, until such time as the newly appointed Executive Director participates in the 2015 Share Scheme, he or she may be awarded an annual or longer-term incentive opportunity of up to 200% of salary per annum.
Maximum The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be awarded to a new Executive Director is: variable a. an award over up to 1 million shares subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the Companys share capital under the remuneration 2015 Share Scheme but reduced to reflect any variable remuneration awarded as referred to in c below : b. an award over up to 1 million shares subject to such adjustment as the Committee determines to reflect any change in the Companys share capital under the Executive Share Scheme or a similar scheme: and c. until such time as he or she participates in the 2015 Share Scheme, an annual or longer-term incentive opportunity of up to 200% of salary per annum.
In each case, the value of any buy-out arrangements described below does not count towards the maximum.
Total remuneration 000 EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Compensation The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out the remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing for forfeited so, the Committee will have regard to relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to such arrangements and whether such conditions were arrangements achieved, the form of those arrangements e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of such arrangements.
While such awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to below, the Committees intention is that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
Buy-out awards will be subject to forfeiture or clawback on early departure, with 100% being subject to forfeiture if the Executive departs within 12 months of joining, and a sliding scale down to 50% if the departure occurs within 12 and 24 months of joining, at the Committees discretion.
Relocation costs If necessary, the Company will pay appropriate relocation costs.
The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share schemes.
If necessary and subject, where relevant, to the limits referred to above, awards may be granted outside existing share plans as permitted under the Listing Rules, which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a position is filled internally, any on-going remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue according to their subsisting terms.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the policy set out in the future policy table above for Non-Executive Directors.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The Companys policy is for Executive Directors to be employed on the terms of service contracts which may be terminated by either the Company or the Executive Director on the giving of not less than 12 months notice.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of each current service contract are set out below: CONTRACT DATE UNEXPIRED TERM NOTICE PERIOD PROPER LAW Mike Ashley 11 02 2007 12 months England & Wales Dave Forsey 11 02 2007 12 months England & Wales Matt Pearson 14 06 2007 8 weeks England & Wales 48 The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached are summarised below: Payment in lieu of The Company may terminate an Executive Directors employment with immediate effect by making a payment in lieu of notice consisting of: notice basic salary for the notice period: if the Executive Director participates in an annual bonus scheme, a pro-rated amount reflecting completed months of service in the year of termination assuming on target performance: either the cost of providing other benefits other than pension and bonus that the Executive Director would have been entitled to during the notice period or an amount equal to 10% of base salary or alternatively the Company may continue to provide benefits for the remainder of the notice period that would have applied.
However, in accordance with the current policy as set out in the policy table on page 45, no annual bonus scheme or benefits are currently offered to Executive Directors.
Annual bonus In accordance with the current policy as set out in the policy table on page 45, no annual bonus scheme is offered to existing Executive Directors.
Were an Executive Director to participate in an annual bonus arrangement, whether to award a bonus in full or in part in the event of a termination of employment would be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and dependent on a number of factors, including the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure and his contribution to the business during the bonus period in question.
Typically bonus amounts would be pro-rated for time in service to termination.
2015 Share If a participant in the 2015 Share Scheme or Executive Share Scheme ceases employment before the performance conditions attaching to an award under that Scheme and scheme are satisfied, the award will lapse.
If the participant ceases employment after the performance conditions are satisfied but before the vesting dates as a Executive Share result of his death or any other reason determined at the discretion of the Committee, the award will vest: in the case of a reason other than death, the extent Scheme of vesting will be determined by the Committee at its absolute discretion taking into account the time that has elapsed between grant and cessation.
Other payments The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of legal fees.
Were the Company to make an award on recruitment of an Executive Director to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer then the leaver provisions for that award would be determined at the time of grant.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 In the event of a change of control of the Company or other relevant corporate event, unvested awards under the 2015 Share Scheme and the Executive Share Scheme will lapse unless the performance conditions are satisfied and the event occurs between satisfaction of the conditions and the vesting date, in which case the award shall vest.
In the case of the 2015 Share Scheme the extent of vesting shall be determined by the Committee taking into account the period of time that has elapsed between the grant date and the date of the relevant event and in the case of the Executive Share Scheme the awards shall vest in full unless the Committee determines otherwise.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Non-Executive Directors enter into an agreement with the Group for a period of three years, other than the Chairman whose agreement continues until terminated in accordance with its terms.
The appointments of the Non-Executive Directors may be terminated by either party on one months written notice and in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Termination would be immediate in certain circumstances including the bankruptcy of the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors do not and are not entitled to participate in any bonus or share scheme.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to confidentiality undertakings without limitation in time.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any compensation on the termination of their appointment.
Details of the letters of appointment are set out below: POSITION DATE OF LETTER OF APPOINTMENT Keith Hellawell Non-Executive Chairman February 2010 Simon Bentley Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014 Dave Singleton Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014 Claire Jenkins Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014 PAYMENTS OUTSIDE THE POLICY IN THIS REPORT The Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payment or payment for loss of office outside the policy in this report: where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect: where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of the Company: or 49 to satisfy contractual commitments made under legacy remuneration arrangements.
For these purposes, payments includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee consults major shareholders and representative Groups where appropriate concerning remuneration matters.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the actual payments made by the Company to its Directors with respect to the period ended 26 April 2015 and how our Directors Remuneration Policy will be applied in the year commencing 27 April 2015.
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE FIGURE TABLE AUDITED The aggregate remuneration provided to individuals who have served as Directors in the period ended 26 April 2015 is set out below, along with the aggregate remuneration provided to individuals who have served as Directors during the prior financial year.
For these purposes, the value of a share is 6.61 being the average share price over the quarter from 26 January 2015 to 24 April 2015.
2 Charles McCreevy resigned from the Board on 10 September 2014.
NOTES TO THE SINGLE FIGURE TABLE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY IN THE YEAR ENDING 24 APRIL 2016 BASE SALARY AND FEES Base salaries are normally reviewed annually.
In the review in FY15 the Committee decided not to alter Executive Directors salaries.
The Committee has decided not to increase Dave 50 Forseys salary in FY16, which has been at the same level since 2002, and which is set at a level well below the lower quartile for a business of the size and complexity of the Group.
Mike Ashley does not receive a salary for his role.
Matt Pearsons current salary for FY16 is 60,000.
In FY16, the Committee will review Matt Pearsons salary and consider whether any increase should be implemented to reflect his role as an acting Board member or if his appointment is made permanent.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually.
In the review in FY15 fees were not increased.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors will not be increased for FY16.
ANNUAL BONUS SCHEME The Committee has determined that no annual bonus scheme will be operated for Executive Directors while the 2015 Share Scheme is in place.
EXECUTIVE SHARE SCHEME No awards were granted under the Executive Share Scheme in FY15.
The last awards which were received, which vested in 2013, related to the completion of a performance condition based on EBITDA in FY11.
Following the approval of the 2015 Share Scheme in July 2014, the Committee proposes to grant Dave Forsey an award under the scheme in FY16 over 1 million shares.
The Committee proposes to grant Matt Pearson an award under the Scheme in FY16 over 30,000 shares, but may increase the quantum of the award either to reflect Matt Pearsons role as an acting Board member or if his appointment is made permanent subject to the limit in the policy table set out on page 45.
The number of shares under any award may be adjusted as the Committee determines to reflect any variation in the Companys share capital.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR No payments have been made to past Directors during the period ended 26 April 2015.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR No payments were made for loss of office during the period ended 26 April 2015.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES AND TOTAL SHAREHOLDINGS OF DIRECTORS The Board believes it is important that Executive Directors have a significant holding in the capital of the Company.
In FY14 the Committee reassessed the shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and determined that the Executive Directors must hold a minimum shareholding of 50,000 shares while employed by the Company.
Dave Forseys beneficial shareholding on 26 April 2015 was 50,000 shares and, based on a share price of 6.13 being the price at the close of business on 24 April 2015, the last trading day before Sunday 26 April 2015 the value of that holding was 306,500, which is in excess of two years salary.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 As an acting Board member, Matt Pearson is not currently required to satisfy the shareholding guideline.
In the event his appointment becomes permanent, Matt Pearson would be expected to acquire the minimum number of shares over a reasonable time period determined by the Committee.
The beneficial interests of the Directors in office on 26 April 2015 and of their families in both cases at the beginning of the financial year, or at the date of appointment if later, and at the end of the financial year in the share capital of the Company are shown below: Ordinary Shares 27 April 2014 Ordinary Shares 26 April 2015 Mike Ashley 345,400,000 330,000,000 Simon Bentley 10,000 10,000 Dave Forsey 50,000 50,000 1 Keith Hellawell 50,000 50,000 Claire Jenkins 19,500 21,725 2 Charles McCreevy 1,500 3 Dave Singleton 52,000 52,000 4 Matt Pearson - - 1 These shares are held in the name of Keith Hellawell, as well as his wife.
2 Charles stood down as a member of the Board on 10 September 2014.
As a result of his resignation, the Group has no visibility of the current shareholding.
3 These shares are held in the name of Dave Singleton, as well as his wife.
4 The shareholding of acting Board members will be assessed in accordance with the Group minimum level upon their status on the Board being made permanent.
There have been no changes in the Directors holdings in the share capital of the Company, as set out in the table above, between 26 April 2015 and 16 July 2015.
DIRECTOR SCHEME GRANT DATE NUMBER OF SHARES STATUS Dave Forsey Executive Share Scheme 22 August 2011 1,000,000 Unvested The award was granted subject to the satisfaction of the following EBITDA targets of which all have been met : Underlying EBITDA of 215m in FY12 - ACHIEVED Underlying EBITDA of 250m in FY13 - ACHIEVED Underlying EBITDA of 260m in FY14 - ACHIEVED 51 Underlying EBITDA of 300m in FY15 - ACHIEVED As the above targets have now been met the award will vest in 2017.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by the Total Shareholder Return compared with the performance of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 index excluding investment trusts.
FTSE 250 ex Investment Trusts FTSE 100 Sports Direct 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 26-Apr-09 25-Apr-10 24-Apr-11 29-Apr-12 28-Apr-13 27-Apr-14 26-Apr-15 EVERYTHING IS CHANGING... DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committee considered this an appropriate index against which to compare the Companys performance as it is widely accepted as a national measure and includes the companies that investors are likely to consider alternative investments.
The table below shows details of the total remuneration and performance-related pay for Dave Forsey over the last six financial years.
TOTAL REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE SHARE SCHEME AS A % OF MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY 1 FY15 6,760,000 100% FY14 150,000 N A FY13 150,000 N A FY12 150,000 N A 2 FY11 6,620,000 100% FY10 150,000 N A 1 Represents the value of an award over 1,000,000 shares under the Executive Share Scheme due to vest in 2017 subject to satisfactory performance and continued employment.
2 For these purposes, the total remuneration in FY11 includes the value of an award over 1,000,000 shares that vested on 15 August 2013 subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition based on EBITDA in FY11.
For these purposes, the value of a share is 6.47 being the closing price of a share on that date.
CEO PAY INCREASE IN RELATION TO ALL EMPLOYEES The table below sets out in relation to salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus the percentage increase in pay for Dave Forsey compared to the average increase between the same periods for the Groups UK Head Office employees, which the Committee believes is the most appropriate comparator group.
The percentages shown relate to the amounts for FY15 as compared to the amounts for the FY14.
ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION DAVE FORSEY % CHANGE UK HEAD OFFICE EMPLOYEE AVERAGE % CHANGE Salary 0% 0.3% Taxable benefits 0% no taxable benefits were provided to Dave Forsey in either year 3.6% Annual bonus 0% no annual bonus arrangement was operated for Dave Forsey in either year 4.2% RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below sets out the Groups distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks, total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all staff, as reported in the audited Financial Statements for FY15 and FY14, and the Companys share price, calculated as at the close of business on the last day of FY15 and FY14.
52 FY15 FY14 PERCENTAGE CHANGE Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback 0 0 0% Investment 126,661,000 323,475,000 60.8 % Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees 323,545,000 307,948,000 5.1% Share price pence 613.0 779.5 21.4 % Comprises of increases in working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditure in the year as the Board believes these to be the most relevant measures of the Groups investment in future growth.
This increase is reflective of the Groups acquisitions and retail expansion in Europe.
For these purposes, the share price for FY15 and the share price for FY14 are calculated as the close of business on 24 April 2015 and 25 April 2014 respectively, being the last working days prior to the year ends.
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION MEMBERSHIP The Committee consists of Simon Bentley, Dave Singleton and Claire Jenkins, who are independent Non-Executive Directors, and Keith Hellawell, who is the Non-Executive Chairman.
The role and main responsibilities of the Committee are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 42.
Attendance at the meetings held during the year is detailed on page 39.
The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, no actual or potential conflicts of interest arising from other directorships and no day-to-day operational responsibility within the Company.
ADVISERS TO THE COMMITTEE Dave Forsey, the Chief Executive, Matt Pearson, the Acting Chief Financial Officer, and Mike Ashley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, have advised or materially assisted the Committee when requested.
Executive Directors are not present, nor do they take part in discussions in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING The following table sets out actual voting in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 27 April 2014 and in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
VOTES FOR % FOR VOTES AGAINST % AGAINST TOTAL VOTES CAST VOTES WITHHELD Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 27 April 2014 516,947,257 97.9% 11,127,626 2.1% 528,074,883 1,005,636 Directors Remuneration Policy 452,862,975 87.5% 64,479,250 12.5% 517,342,225 11,738,294 Dave Singleton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 July 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015
