St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 70 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report As the focus on executive pay continues, the Committee remains mindful of the developing remuneration landscape.
LESLEY JAMES, CBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Meetings attended inyear out of maximum % attended Committee member Member since possible in year Ian Bull Sep 2014 3 3 100% Kay Chaldecott Dec 2012 3 3 100% Lesley James Oct 2009 3 3 100% Richard Mully Sep 2013 3 3 100% 1 John Salmon Oct 2005 1 1 100% Bill Shannon Nov 2010 3 3 100% th 1 Retired from the Board on 27 March 2015.
Committee meeting attendees by invitation Chief Executive Principal role Bill Oliver Determines the policy for the remuneration of the Non-executive director executive directors which is designed to promote the Simon Clarke long-term success of the Company, be compatible with risk policies and systems and be aligned to the Companys longCompany Secretary and secretary to the Committee term strategic goals.
Tanya Stote Committee advisor Key activities in 2014 15 Representatives from New Bridge Street Determined the application of the remuneration policy in respect of the recruitment of Rob Hudson, Group Finance Director.
Monitored market trends in and the governance environment of remuneration arrangements.
Commenced preparation for remuneration policy activity required ahead of the 2017 AGM.
Areas of focus for 2015 16 Full review of remuneration policy, including proposals for replacement long-term incentive arrangements.
Consult with major shareholder on any proposed changes to remuneration policy.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 71 245 4699 100164 165176 Annual Statement Remuneration outcomes in 2014 15 On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the report You will see from our financial results that the Company has on directors remuneration for the financial year ended had another exceptional year, delivering record profits and th 30 November 2015. strong growth in net asset value.
Performance highlights can befound on pages 30 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
This report includes an annual report on remuneration pages 82 to 93 which describes how the remuneration policy was Reflecting both the outstanding corporate results for the th implemented for the year ended 30 November 2015 and year, which were ahead of both budget and at the top end how we intend for the policy to apply for the year ending of market expectations, and strong individual performance, th 30 November 2016.
This report, together with my annual each executive director was awarded the maximum bonus statement, will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the potential of 125% of base salary earned for the year ended th 2016 AGM.
To ensure clarity and to enable you to cross reference our The 2013 Performance Share Plan awards are due to vest in remuneration practice against our policy, we have also March 2016 based on performance over the three financial th republished the key elements of our remuneration policy.
Vesting of half of this award was This policy received binding shareholder approval, for the first subject to TSR performance relative to the FTSE All-Share Real st time, at the 2014 AGM and came into effect on 1 December Estate Investment & Services Index, with the remaining 50% 2014.
The Committee remains satisfied that the policy subject to an absolute TSR condition.
To reflect the Companys continues to support the Companys strategy, to retain and performance relative to the Index of 142% and absolute TSR motivate our management team, to drive strong returns for growth of 123% over the performance period, awards will our shareholders and to promote the long-term success of the vest in full.
Further information, including the Committees Company.
Shareholders will not therefore be asked to approve consideration of the underpin conditions which must be met any revisions to the policy at the 2016 AGM.
before it can permit awards to vest, can be found on pages 84 and 85.
Alignment of remuneration with strategy Remuneration policy for 2015 16 As the UKs leading regeneration specialist, our expertise in remediation, planning, asset development and construction Our policy has been developed taking full account of the UK supports our strategy of securing excellent returns through Corporate Governance Code the Code, the views of our a focus on long-term significant added value while protecting major shareholders and the advice of New Bridge Street, the existing assets.
Pages 18 to 41 of our Strategic Report Committees independent advisor on remuneration matters.
describes how we deliver this strategy whilst managing risk.
The remuneration packages of our executive directors include a significant proportion of performance-related elements To ensure that the interests of our management team are which are subject to demanding targets, incentive pay is aligned to those of our shareholders, the variable elements of subject to withholding and recovery provisions, the annual our remuneration policy are relevant to and support our stated bonus arrangements include an element of compulsory strategy.
The link between our strategy and relative incentive investment in and retention of shares in the Company, and measures is described on pages 18 to 21. robust share ownership guidelines apply.
The Committee The annual bonus arrangements incorporate both corporate considers that these features promote significant alignment and operational performance measures to ensure that with shareholders and provide an appropriate level of risk executive directors are incentivised to deliver across a range mitigation.
The structure of remuneration arrangements for of key financial and strategic objectives.
Awards under our 2015 16 will therefore remain largely unchanged from that Performance Share Plan are based on two separate TSR applied in 2014 15. measures one being relative and the other absolute which In line with the average salary increase awarded to employees, are designed to promote clear alignment of interest between salaries of the executive directors have been increased by executive directors and shareholders.
st 3% with effect from 1 December 2015.
Executive directors will continue to have the opportunity to earn a bonus of up to 125% of salary and will receive long-term incentive awards to the same value, both subject to stretching and rigorously applied performance conditions.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 72 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Statement continued Changes to the Board nd We announced on 22 December 2014 that Michael Dunn had agreed with St. Modwen to leave the Company.
Michael subsequently stepped down from the Board st on 31 May 2015 and remained on garden leave for the th remainder of his notice period to 18 December 2015.
During this period Michael continued to receive salary and contractual benefits and remained eligible to be awarded a st st bonus for the period from 1 December 2014 to 31 May 2015.
Michaels unvested PSP awards will continue with performance tested at the end of the relevant performance st periods and awards pro-rated to 31 May 2015.
Full details ofhis remuneration arrangements are set out on page 87.
We are delighted that Rob Hudson has joined us as Group th Finance Director on 28 September 2015.
His remuneration arrangements, details of which can be found on page 87, are fully consistent with our remuneration policy.
In order to secure his appointment, the Committee agreed to take into account deferred unvested incentive awards from his previous employer which Rob would have forfeited.
The Committee has taken particular care in ensuring that these arrangements are appropriate in light of our policy and replicate, as closely as possibly, the expected value, form and time horizons of the forfeited awards.
Looking ahead As the focus on executive pay continues, the Committee remains mindful of the developing remuneration landscape.
In2016 we will consider our current remuneration policy against this backdrop, whilst ensuring that it remains clearly aligned to business strategy and promotes the long-term success of the Company.
We will also consult with our major shareholders on the proposed scheme to replace our Performance Share Plan, which expires in 2017.
Resolutions seeking shareholder approval of both the remuneration policy and new long-term incentive arrangements will be put to the AGM in 2017.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow Committee members for their hard work and support, including John Salmon who retired from the Committee and the Board in March 2015.
I hope that you find the report helpful and informative and I look forward to receiving feedback from our investors on the information presented.
Lesley James Chairman of the Remuneration Committee st 1 February 2016 This report complies with the requirements of the Large and MediumSized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 the Regulations, the principles of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 73 245 4699 100164 165176 Remuneration Policy Report Extracts from the Policy Report that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM are set out below to enable the reported remuneration to be assessed in the context of the relevant aspects of the policy.
The current intention is that this policy will operate until the 2017 AGM.
The original Policy Report approved at the 2014 AGM which includes charts illustrating the remuneration opportunities for th executive directors is published in its entirety in the Companys Annual Report for the year ended 30 November 2013, which is available at www.
How the Committee sets the remuneration policy Remuneration policy st The primary objective of the Companys remuneration The remuneration policy that came into effect on 1 December policy is to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre senior 2014 is set out on pages 74 to 81.
Remuneration arrangements th executives through competitive pay arrangements which are for the financial year ending 30 November 2016 will be in line structured so as to be in the best interests of shareholders.
with the policy below: further information can be found on Remuneration includes a significant proportion of pages 90 and 91. performance-related elements with demanding targets in order The Committee retains the discretion to make any payments, to align the interests of directors and shareholders and to notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set reward appropriately strategic and financial success.
The policy out below, where the terms of the payment were agreed is structured so as to be aligned with key strategic priorities and i before the policy came into effect, or ii at a time when to be consistent with a Board-approved level of business risk.
the relevant individual was not a director of the Company In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration in consideration of the individual becoming a director of practices found in other UK companies of comparable size the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the and scope and has regard to the remuneration arrangements Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, for the Companys employees generally.
In general, the in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment components and levels of remuneration for employees are determined at the time the award is granted.
Details of will differ from the policy for executive directors which is any such payments will be disclosed in the annual report on set out below.
As a result, greater emphasis is placed on remuneration for the relevant year.
variable pay for executive directors and senior employees, The Committee will operate the annual bonus and long-term albeit with lower maximum incentive opportunities at levels incentive arrangements according to their respective rules below the Board.
Similarly, long-term incentives are offered and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
only to those anticipated to have the greatest impact on Consistent with market practice the Committee retains certain Company performance.
discretions in respect of the operation and administration The Committee does not directly consult with employees of these arrangements which include, but are not limited to, regarding the remuneration of directors.
However, when the following: considering remuneration levels to apply, the Committee will the participants: take into account base pay increases, bonus payments and the timing of the grant of an award or payment: share awards made to the Companys employees generally.
the size of an award: The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and seeks the views of its major shareholders the determination of the extent to which performance when considering significant changes to remuneration measures have been met and the corresponding vesting arrangements.
The Committee also considers shareholder orpayment levels: feedback received in relation to the Directors Remuneration discretion required when dealing with a change of control Report each year at a meeting following the AGM.
orrestructuring of the Group: This feedback, plus any additional feedback received from time determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules to time, is then considered as part of the Committees annual of the respective arrangement and the appropriate treatment review of remuneration policy and its implementation.
chosen, including the pro-rating of awards: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : the annual review of performance measures, weighting andtargets from year to year: and the manner in which share awards can be satisfied i. e. through the use of new issue, market purchased or treasury shares or by way of a cash payment.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 74 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued In addition, the Committee retains the ability to adjust Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the the targets and or set different measures if events occur annual report on remuneration for the relevant year and e. g. a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the business which cause it to determine that the conditions are Companys major shareholders.
no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Base salary Performance Purpose Operation Opportunity measures To attract, retain Normally reviewed annually with Salary increases will normally be None, although and motivate changes effective from in percentage of salary terms overall performance st individuals of the 1 December.
Review reflects: in line with any general cost of the individual is necessary calibre of living increase throughout considered by the individual and to execute the the Company.
However, larger Committee as part of corporate performance: Companys increases may be awarded at the annual review.
the individuals level of skill the Committees discretion and experience: To provide to take account of individual competitive circumstances such as: increases throughout the non-variable Company including cost of changes in scope and remuneration living awards : responsibility of a role: and relative to the internal relativities: and external market.
where a new director is appointed at a salary which prevailing market To recognise is at a lower level to reflect conditions through periodic and reward their experience at that point, benchmarking for comparable performance, the Committee may award roles in companies of a similar skills and a series of increases over size and scope.
time to achieve the desired is mindful of institutional salary position subject to investors concerns on the satisfactory performance and upward ratchet of base market conditions.
salaries and does not consider benchmark data in isolation.
Actual salary levels are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant financial year see page 90 for those effective st 1 December 2015.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 75 245 4699 100164 165176 Benefits Performance Purpose Operation Opportunity measures To provide a The Company provides a range Benefits are set at a level which None competitive and of non-pensionable benefits the Committee considers to be cost-effective to executive directors which appropriately positioned against benefits package.
may include a combination comparable roles in companies of a company car or car of a similar size and scope and To assist with recruitment allowance, private fuel, driver, provides a sufficient level of and retention.
private medical insurance, benefit based on the role and permanent health insurance, individual circumstances.
life assurance, holiday and sick pay, and professional advice in connection with their directorship.
Other benefits such as relocation allowances may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable bythe Committee.
Pension Performance Purpose Operation Opportunity measures To provide The Company offers an 15% of base salary for all None competitive allowance expressed as a executive directors.
post-retirement percentage of base salary which benefits in a costcan be taken as: effective manner.
an employer contribution To assist with to the defined contribution recruitment section of the Companys and retention.
pension scheme: a cash allowance which is not bonusable : or a blend of the two.
As a result of historic contractual commitments retirement benefits for Steve Burke are also delivered by membership of the defined benefit section of the Companys pension scheme which is closed to future accrual.
The Committee may amend the form of any executive directors pension arrangements in response to changes in pensions legislation or similar developments, so long as any amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of a directors pension provision.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 76 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued Annual bonus Performance Purpose Operation Opportunity measures To incentivise and All measures and targets are Maximum bonus potential Performance is reward the delivery reviewed and set annually by of 125% of salary for all assessed using the of stretching, the Committee at the beginning executive directors.
On target following metrics: near-term of the financial year and levels performance would result in a up to 105% of salary strategic, financial of award determined by the bonus payment of 75% of salary.
will be awarded and operational Committee after the year end based on corporate measures at based on performance against measures: and Company and the targets set.
up to 20% of salary will be awarded The Committee retains an Corporate measures based on personal overriding discretion to ensure selected are 2 measures.
consistent with that overall bonus payments and complement reflect its view of corporate The specific the budget and performance during the year.
will apply for Bonuses are paid in cash the year ending An element of and are non-pensionable.
th 30 November 2016 compulsory Directors are required to invest are described in the investment in an amount equal to one third annual report on shares to align of the net bonus received in the remuneration on to shareholders Companys shares and to retain page 90. interests in these shares for a minimum the creation of sustainable, longperiod of three years.
Withholding and recovery provisions apply to all 1 bonusespaid.
1 The Committee has discretion to recover some or all of the value of annual bonus if, within four years following payment, it acquires evidence to support the fact that the bonus has been overpaid due to a restatement of accounts, or there has been an error, or it is determined that the eligible executive committed an act of gross misconduct which, if known at the time, would have meant that a lower or nil bonus would have been paid.
Overpayments can be recovered through clawing back the value of bonus payments direct from the executive, or by a reduction of future bonus payments or future payments under any other incentive plan.
2 The annual bonus metrics are designed to ensure that annual performance is focused on key financial measures which support the Companys strategic targets.
These are supported by individual performance measures to ensure that executive directors are incentivised to deliver across a range of objectives.
Targets are set in line with the Companys budget and strategic plan for the year with a stretch element to reward substantial outperformance.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 77 245 4699 100164 165176 Long-term incentives Performance Purpose Operation Opportunity measures To incentivise and Awards of nil-cost options are Maximum award level permitted Performance is reward the delivery normally made annually with under the scheme rules is 150% measured over a three of strong returns vesting, in normal circumstances, of salary or 180% in exceptional year period with no to shareholders dependent on the achievement circumstances.
The normal retesting against the andsustained, of stretching performance and current annual award following metrics: long-term conditions set by the Committee limit is 125% of salary for all performance.
50% of the award and measured over a three executive directors.
based on relative TSR Aligns the longyear period, and the director performance: and Awards vest on the term interests of remaining in employment.
following basis: 50% of the award directors and The Committee has discretion based on absolute shareholders.
on target performance delivers 3 TSR growth.
to decide whether and to what 25% of the shares awarded: Promotes extent performance conditions and retention.
The specific measures have been achieved and must that will apply for maximum performance also be satisfied that two the year ending delivers 100% of the underpin conditions are met th shares awarded 30 November 2016 before permitting awards to are described in the 1 vest.
with straight line annual report on vesting between.
On the exercise of vested remuneration on awards, executive directors page 91. receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the date of exercise on the number of shares which have vested.
Withholding and recovery provisions apply to all awards 2 granted.
Other than in exceptional circumstances as determined by the Committee, no further grants under the Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS will be made to executive directors.
1 The conditions are i that the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period: and ii if no dividend has been paid on the last normal dividend date prior to the vesting date or if the Committee believes that no dividend will be paid in respect of the year in which the award vests, the award will not vest at that time and vesting will be delayed subject to continued employment until dividend payments are resumed.
2 The Committee has discretion to recover some or all of the value of any awards calculated at vesting if, within four years following vesting, it acquires evidence to support the fact that the value of awards has been overstated due to a restatement of accounts, or there has been an error, or it is determined that the eligible executive committed an act of gross misconduct which, if known at the time, would have meant that a lower or nil award would have vested.
Vested awards can be recovered through clawing back the value of awards direct from the executive, or by a reduction of future awards on vesting or future bonus payments.
3 The Committee believes that this combination of TSR measures provides strong alignment with the interests of shareholders and complements the focus on operational performance measures in the annual bonus arrangements.
Targets are set to ensure that only modest awards are available for delivering on target performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial outperformance of the Companys budget and strategic plans.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 78 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued All-employee share schemes Performance Purpose Operation Opportunity measures To encourage All employees, including Maximum participation limits are None all employees to executive directors, are set in line with HMRC guidelines make a long-term entitled to participate in a UK in force at the time of award.
investment in the tax approved all-employee Companys shares in share scheme.
The Companys current allemployee share scheme was approved at the 2014 AGM and allows employees to make monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of an option over the Companys shares.
At the end of the period, participants can use the monies to purchase shares at a discount up to the maximum permitted by HMRC to the market value of shares on the relevant invitation date.
Alternatively they may ask for their savings to be returned with any accrued interest.
Shareholding requirement Performance Purpose Operation Opportunity measures To ensure alignment The Company operates a Executive directors are required None of interests of shareholding requirement which to build up a shareholding worth executive directors is subject to periodic review.
200% of base salary within five and shareholders.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 79 245 4699 100164 165176 Fees payable to Chairman and non-executive directors Performance Purpose Operation Opportunity measures To pay fees in Normally reviewed annually Fees are set at a level which None, although line with those with changes effective reflects the commitment and overall performance st paid by other UK from 1 December, taking contribution that is expected of the individual is listed companies of into account any cost of and is appropriately positioned considered as part of comparable size.
living increase applied against comparable roles in the annual review.
companies of a similar size Additional payments are made to the Periodic benchmarking for and scope.
Senior Independent comparable roles in companies Overall fees paid to directors Director and of a similar size and scope is will remain within the limit set Chairs of Board also undertaken.
out in the Companys Articles Committees to reflect the additional Fees are structured as follows: of Association.
responsibilities the Chairman is paid an Actual fee levels are disclosed attached to all-inclusive fee for all Board in the annual report on these positions.
This fee is remuneration for the determined by the Board on relevant financial year see the recommendation of the page 91 for those effective Committee: and st 1 December 2015. non-executive directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees for chairing Board Committees or as Senior Independent Director which are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the executive directors.
Fees are currently paid in cash.
Neither the Chairman nor the other non-executive directors participate in the annual bonus or long-term incentive arrangements or in the pension scheme, nor do they receive benefits in kind.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 80 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report continued The Committee may structure a remuneration package that it considers appropriate to recognise incentive pay or benefit Recruitment arrangements arrangements that the individual would forfeit on resigning In the event of hiring a new executive director, the Committee from his or her previous employer.
This may take the form will seek to align his or her remuneration package with the of cash and or share awards as appropriate.
In doing so the policy set out above.
However, the Committee retains the Committee will take account of relevant factors including discretion to offer appropriate remuneration outside of the the form e. g. cash or shares, timing and expected value standard policy to facilitate the hiring of candidates of an i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of appropriate calibre and to meet the individual circumstances of the remuneration being forfeited.
The Committee will generally the recruitment.
This may, for example, include the following: seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to where an interim appointment is made to fill an executive awards forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will, to director role on a short-term basis: the extent possible, be granted using the Companys existing exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or share schemes, although awards may also be granted outside anon-executive director takes on an executive function on of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the ashort-term basis: Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, inunusual circumstances, the recruitment of a director.
an executive director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term The Committee may also apply different performance incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient measures, performance periods and or vesting periods for time to assess performance.
The quantum in respect of the initial awards made following appointment under the annual months employed during the year may be transferred to the bonus and or long-term incentive arrangements, subject to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and rules of the scheme, if it determines that the circumstances of appropriate basis: the recruitment merit such alteration.
an executive is recruited from a business that offered some benefits that the Committee might consider appropriate The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to to buy out but that do not fall into the definition of variable new executive directors, excluding the value of any buyout remuneration forfeited that can be included in the buyout arrangements, will be in line with the policy.
element under the wording of the Regulations: or Where a position is fulfilled internally, the Committee will the executive received benefits from his or her previous honour any pre-existing remuneration obligations or employer which the Committee considers it appropriate outstanding variable pay arrangements in relation to the to offer.
individuals previous role such that these shall be allowed to The Committee will, however, seek to ensure that continue according to the original terms adjusted as relevant arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company to take account of the Board appointment.
and its shareholders and to not pay more than is appropriate.
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or non-executive For clarity and in line with the assurance given in the director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time announcement published on the Companys website on of appointment.
th 6 March 2014, the Committee does not envisage using the discretion outlined above to offer golden hello cash payments External appointments to facilitate recruitment.
The Board recognises the benefit which the Company can obtain if executive directors serve as non-executive directors Base salary levels for new recruits will be set in accordance with of other companies.
Subject to review in each case, the the policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of Boards general policy is that an executive director can accept the individual recruited.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower one non-executive directorship of another company but salary initially to reflect the individuals experience at that point, not the chairmanship and can retain the fees in respect of the Committee may award a series of increases over time to such appointment.
achieve the desired salary position subject to performance and market conditions.
Pension arrangements will be in line with Executive director service contracts and payments for loss the policy.
of office All current executive directors have service contracts which Unless the Committee deems it appropriate to tailor benefits may be terminated by the Company for breach by the to the unique circumstances of the appointment, benefits executive or with 12 months notice from the Company and six will be provided in line with those made available to other months from the individual.
None have fixed terms of service.
executive directors, with relocation allowances offered if Service contracts for new executive directors will generally be considered necessary.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 81 245 4699 100164 165176 If notice is served by either party, the executive director can Nonexecutive director terms of appointment continue to receive base salary, benefits and pension for the The terms of service of the Chairman and the other nonduration of their notice period during which time the Company executive directors are contained in letters of appointment.
may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current Appointments are for a fixed term of three years, during which duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
The Company period the appointment may be terminated by three months may elect to make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent notice by either party.
Non-executive directors are typically in value to 12 months base salary, payable in monthly expected to serve two three-year terms subject to mutual instalments, which would be subject to mitigation if alternative agreement and satisfactory performance reviews.
There are employment is taken up during this time.
Alternatively, no provisions for payment in the event of termination, early this payment may be paid as a lump sum.
In the event of or otherwise.
termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct neither notice nor payment in lieu of notice will be given and the executive director will cease to perform his services immediately.
In redundancy situations the Committee will comply with prevailing relevant legislation.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, the Company may pay a contribution towards the executive directors legal fees for entering into a statutory agreement and may pay a contribution towards fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
There is no provision for additional compensation on termination following a change of control.
Payment may also be made in respect of accrued benefits, including untaken holiday entitlement.
The principles set out in the table below will apply to annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements in the event of loss of office.
In respect of all-employee share schemes and the Companys Executive Share Option Schemes, the same leaver conditions will be applied to executive directors as those applied to other employees.
Remuneration element Good leavers Other leavers An executive director will be treated as a good Unless the Committee exercises its discretion to Annual bonus leaver if he or she dies or ceases employment treat the executive director as a good leaver, no due to injury, disability, retirement with the bonus will be payable.
Companys agreement, or sale of the business in which he or she is employed.
In these circumstances, the executive director remains eligible to be paid a bonus, subject to the applicable performance measures.
Any payment awarded may be pro-rated to reflect the period of time served from the start of the financial year to the date of termination, but not for any period in lieu of notice.
Long-term incentive awards An executive director will be treated as a good All awards will lapse in full where termination is by leaver if he or she dies or ceases employment reason of summary dismissal.
as apply to the Companys current due to injury or disability.
In other circumstances unvested awards will lapse Performance Share Plan Unvested awards can be exercised either on date in full unless the Committee applies discretion to of cessation or after three years from grant, in treat the executive director as a good leaver.
either case pro-rated for time employed during the performance period, achievement of applicable performance measures, and having regard to such other factors as the Committee may deem relevant.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 82 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3, Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 and with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Rob Hudson is also entitled to a relocation allowance of up to 25% of base salary in respect of reasonable and appropriate costs to enable him to th th relocate to the Midlands following his appointment on 28 September 2015: in the year ended 30 November 2015 payments totalling 37,471 were made to Rob Hudson in connection with his relocation.
2 Bonus payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
Further information as to how the level of bonus awarded in 2015 was determined is provided on pages 83 and 84. th 3 Relates to the 2013 PSP awards which are due to vest and become exercisable on 6 March 2016.
As the awards had not vested as at the date of this report, their value has been estimated th using a share price of 433.7p, being the three month average to 30 November 2015, plus 12.92p per share which is the value of the dividend equivalent deliverable in shares on the awards th that vest.
The dividend equivalent is based on dividends paid to shareholders with record dates occurring between the date of grant and 30 November 2015.
Further information on the awards and the performance conditions to which they were subject can be found on pages 84 and 85. th 4 Relates to the 2012 PSP awards which vested and became exercisable on 17 February 2015.
The share price used to value the awards was 470.00p, being the share price on the vesting date, plus 11.293p per share which is the value of the dividend equivalent deliverable in shares on vesting.
The dividend equivalent is based on dividends paid to shareholders with record dates occurring between the date of grant and the date of vesting.
5 Further details regarding pension entitlements can be found on pages 86 and 87.
6 Values shown comprise the notional gain on the exercise of options granted under the Companys Executive Share Option Schemes and Saving Related Share Option Scheme.
st st st 7 Stepped down from the Board on 31 May 2015.
Values for 2015 reflect remuneration received as a director in the period from 1 December 2014 to 31 May 2015.
Information on the st th payments made to Michael Dunn for the period from 1 June 2015 to 30 November 2015 can be found on page 87. th 8 Appointed to the Board on 28 September 2015.
Further information on the recruitment arrangements for Rob Hudson can be found on page 87. th 9 Retired from the Board on 27 March 2015.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 83 245 4699 100164 165176 Annual bonus outturn audited information th In the financial year ended 30 November 2015 all executive directors had the opportunity to be awarded an annual bonus of st up to 125% of base salary as at 1 December 2014.
Of this, 105% of salary was dependent on achieving corporate measures and 20% on meeting personal objectives, details of which are set out in the table below.
On target Maximum 1 2 Measure performance performance Actual performance Corporate 105% of salary Committee 27% growth to Post dividend growth in shareholders equity net asset value per share 21% growth discretion 413.5p Committee Profit before all tax 231.2m discretion 258.4m 5.5p Committee Total dividend for the year per share discretion 5.75p per share 3 Gearing levels 48% 48% 48% Covenant compliance Full Full Full Achievement against a number of strategic objectives which Achievement determined primarily included: Achieved by the Committee against in full as detailed achieving targeted development milestones to support future measurable objectives set in the profit delivery: and at the beginning of Strategic Report the year progressing acquisitions to enhance the Companys land bank.
Personal 20% of salary Achievement against a number of operational objectives which primarily included: achieving unconditional status in respect of New Covent Garden Market andthe identification of procurement options: Achievement determined delivering completion of the first phase at Bay Campus, Swansea University: by the Committee against Achieved infull as measurable objectives set detailed in the initiation and development of PRS programme: at the beginning of Strategic Report the year advancing the embedding of risk management across the Group: development of longer-term resourcing arrangements in line with businessneeds: and enhancing the Companys CSR activities.
1 Total bonus which can be awarded for on target performance is 75% of salary 60% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
2 Total bonus which can be awarded for maximum performance is 125% of salary 100% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
3 Defined as adjusted gearing, being the ratio of net borrowings excluding finance leases to net assets, and consistent with the measure set at the beginning of the year.
The executive directors individual performance was assessed by the Committee against the measures, relying on audited information where appropriate, and having regard to the value which has been created for shareholders.
Weightings were not given to individual corporate measures: since they are all of key importance to the shortand longer-term success of the Company, the Committee did not wish to distort behaviour by placing particular focus on any single element.
As noted in the Strategic Report, the Company has had an exceptional year, delivering record profits and strong growth in net asset value.
Performance highlights include: shareholders equity net asset value per share increasing by 27% to 413.5p per share: an unprecedented increase in profit before all tax of 91% to 258.4m: realised property profits up by 31% to 67.4m: earnings per share up 82% to 97.9p: total dividend for the year increased by 25% to 5.75p per share: valuation gain of 201.7m, of which 166.0m was as a result of planning and asset management initiatives: significant milestones achieved across all major projects, including achieving unconditional status for the redevelopment of New Covent Garden Market in April 2015, the opening of Bay Campus at Swansea University in September 2015 and completion of the second phase of Longbridge Town Centre, including a new 150,000 sq ft flagship store for Marks & Spencer: and the continued recycling of capital through disposals of mature assets, such as Cranfield University Technology Park, into addedvalue acquisitions, such as Kirkby Town Centre.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 84 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued In light of both corporate and individual performance, the Committee determined that each executive director should be awarded the maximum bonus potential of 125% of base salary earned in the year.
Consequently the award made to Michael Dunn was st st pro-rated in respect of the period from 1 December 2014 to 31 May 2015 when he commenced garden leave and the award th made to Rob Hudson reflected his appointment to the Board on 28 September 2015.
Bonus payments made to Bill Oliver and Steve Burke were conditional upon the executive director undertaking to invest at least one third of the bonus received, after payment of income tax and national insurance, in the Companys shares and to retain those shares for a minimum period of three years.
The payment made to Rob Hudson was similarly conditional, albeit he was required to undertake to invest the full bonus received, after payment of income tax and national insurance.
Long-term incentives audited information Performance Share Plan PSP th On 9 April 2015, the following PSP awards were granted to executive directors as nil cost options: Face value of award % of award that would vest for 1 2 Executive director Basis of award 000 Number of shares threshold performance Bill Oliver 125% of salary 606 130,501 25% Steve Burke 125% of salary 400 86,107 25% 1 Calculated using the average share price of 464.37p which was, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, used to determine the number of shares to be awarded being the average over the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
st 2 The performance measures that apply to the awards mirror those proposed for the 2016 awards which are described on page 91.
The performance period started on 1 December 2014 th and will end on 30 November 2017. th Following his appointment on 28 September 2015, the following PSP award was granted as a nil cost option to Rob Hudson on nd 2 October 2015: Face value of award % of award that would vest for 1 2 Executive director Basis of award 000 Number of shares threshold performance Rob Hudson 180% of salary 495 119,018 25% 1 Calculated using the average share price of 415.9p which was, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, used to determine the number of shares to be awarded being the average over the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
st 2 The performance measures that apply to the award mirror those proposed for the 2016 awards which are described on page 91.
The performance period started on 1 December 2014 and th will end on 30 November 2017. th The three year performance period for the 2013 PSP awards ended on 30 November 2015.
The performance conditions which applied to the awards together with actual performance are summarised in the table below.
Vesting of award Vesting of award Threshold at threshold Maximum at maximum Actual Proportion of Performance measure Weighting performance performance performance performance performance award to vest Absolute TSR growth 50% of award 20% 12.5% 50% 50% 122.65% 50% TSR relative to FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Equal to 120% of 142% of Services Index 50% of award Index 12.5% Index 50% Index 50% TOTAL 100% To ensure that the level of vesting of PSP awards accurately reflected the performance of the Company during the period, the Committee also considered whether it was satisfied that the two underpins details of which are set out in note 1 on page 77 rd had been met.
In respect of the dividend underpin, an interim dividend of 1.9p per share was paid on 3 September 2015 and st the Board is recommending that a final dividend for the year of 3.85p per share be paid on 1 April 2016.
Furthermore, the Committee currently has no reason to believe that dividends will not be paid in respect of the 2016 financial year, being the year in which the award will vest.
The Committee was also satisfied that the level of vesting was appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period, noting the following: st th As at 1 As at 30 1 Key financial indicator December 2012 November 2015 Improvement Profit before all tax 52.8m 258.4m 389% Shareholders equity net asset value per share 250.8p 413.5p 65% Total dividend per share for the financial year 3.63p 5.75p 58% Adjusted gearing 71% 48% 32% See-through loan-to-value 41% 30% 27% 1 Due to the negligible impact, financial information has not been restated to reflect the revised accounting treatment of VSM Estates Holdings Ltd under IFRS 10.
See the Accounting Policies note on pages 116 and 117 of the Group Financial Statements for further information.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 85 245 4699 100164 165176 The Committee therefore determined that the PSP awards granted in 2013 will vest in full and become exercisable on the third th anniversary of grant 6 March 2016.
Further details can be found in the table below.
Executive director Total number of shares granted Number of shares to vest Bill Oliver 231,077 231,077 Steve Burke 152,468 152,468 1 Michael Dunn 138,802 103,468 st 1 Pro-rated to reflect the time elapsed from the date of grant to 31 May 2015 when Michael Dunn stepped down from the Board.
Further information can be found on page 87.
Dividends will be treated as accruing from the date of grant to the date of exercise: on exercise the total dividend accrued is converted into shares using the average market price for the three dealing days immediately prior to the date of exercise and released to the director.
All PSP awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
In addition to the shares exercised, the executive directors received shares representing the value of dividends paid from the date of award to the date of exercise as follows: Bill Oliver: 8,753 shares: Steve Burke: 5,775 shares: Michael Dunn: 5,257 shares.
3 The awards granted in 2012 comprised an approved ESOS award over 19,769 shares with an exercise price of 151.75p and a PSP award for the balance.
On exercise the value delivered by the PSP awards was scaled back by the value delivered by the approved ESOS award to ensure that the total pre-tax value delivered to executive directors remained unchanged.
Details of the approved ESOS awards granted in 2012 can be found in the table on page 86.
4 The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded, under the rules of the PSP, was 464.37p.
The closing mid-market share price on the date of the award was 470p.
th 5 Appointed to the Board on 28 September 2015.
The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded to Rob Hudson in the year, under the rules of the PSP, was 415.9p.
The closing mid-market share price on the date of award was 417p.
st th 6 Stepped down from the Board on 31 May 2015 and ceased to be an employee on 18 December 2015.
PSP awards granted in 2013 and 2014 have been pro-rated to reflect the time st elapsed from the date of grant to 31 May 2015.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 86 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Executive Share Option Schemes ESOS ESOS awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
3 Granted in conjunction with the 2012 PSP awards so as to enable the executive directors to benefit from UK tax efficiencies under HMRC agreed share schemes legislation.
For further information see note 3 to the table on page 85. st 4 Stepped down from the Board on 31 May 2015.
No further grants under the ESOS will be made to executive directors other than in exceptional circumstances as determined by the Committee.
Saving Related Share Option Scheme SAYE SAYE awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
Options held Options held st th on 1 Options Options Options on 30 December granted during exercised lapsed November Exercise Exercise Executive director Date of grant 2014 year during year during year 2015 price period 01 10 16 to Steve Burke 16 08 11 9,887 9,887 156p 31 03 17 01 10 16 to 1 Michael Dunn 16 08 11 9,887 9,887 156p 31 03 17 st th 1 Stepped down from the Board on 31 May 2015 and ceased to be an employee on 18 December 2015. th The closing mid-market share price on 30 November 2015 was 432.5p and the price range during the year was 370.0p to 493.6p.
Pension entitlements audited information All executive directors receive a pension contribution of 15% of base salary which is paid either into the defined contribution section of the Companys pension scheme or as a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution or a combination of both.
No compensation is offered for any additional tax suffered by an executive director in the event that the value of their pension exceeds the statutory Lifetime Allowance.
Pension contributions paid from 1 June 2015 to 30 November 2015 are detailed on page 87. th 2 Appointed to the Board on 28 September 2015.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 87 245 4699 100164 165176 Steve Burke is also a deferred member of the defined benefit section of the Companys pension scheme, which was closed to new members in 1999 and to future accrual in 2009.
Benefits are based on years of credited service and final pensionable pay: the maximum benefit generally payable under the scheme is two-thirds of final pensionable pay.
Information required by the Regulations in respect of defined benefit pension arrangements is set out below.
Increase in Accrued Accrued accrued pension pension at pension at Increase in during the year th th Age at 30 November 30 November accrued pension excluding th 1 1 30 November 2014 2015 during the year inflation Executive director 2015 pa pa pa pa 2 2 Steve Burke 56 28,006 28,342 336 0 1 The accrued annual pension includes entitlements earned as an employee prior to becoming an executive director as well as for qualifying services after becoming an executive director and is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 65 based on service to the end of the year.
st 2 These figures have been calculated by applying deferred revaluation to Steve Burkes deferred pension as at 1 September 2009, being the date that accrual ceased under the defined benefits section of the scheme.
3 The following is additional information relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements applicable to Steve Burke: Normal retirement age is 65 years.
Retirement may take place at any age after age 55 subject to Company consent.
Pensions may be reduced to allow for their earlier payment.
There are no death in service benefits payable and no additional benefits due on early retirement.
Deferred pensions are assumed to increase in line with CPI capped at 5% per annum in the period before retirement.
Further information on the Companys pension scheme is shown in note 18 to the Group Financial Statements.
Recruitment arrangements for Rob Hudson Robs service contract and remuneration arrangements are consistent with the remuneration policy set out on pages 74 to 81.
His base salary is 275,000 and he is eligible for an annual bonus of up to 125% of that salary.
He will also be eligible for an annual award under the Companys PSP the normal and current annual award limit is 125% of base salary.
Additionally he receives a pension allowance of 15% of base salary and other benefits in line with the remuneration policy: these benefits include a relocation allowance of up to 25% of base salary in respect of reasonable and appropriate costs to enable Rob to relocate to the Midlands.
As a consequence of joining the Company, Rob was required to forfeit certain long-term incentives from his previous employer.
In order to compensate him for that, the Committee agreed: a one-off cash payment of 414,000 in recognition of an outstanding long-term incentive award which had reached the end of the performance measurement period in March 2015 such that the full value could be determined but which was not due to vest until December 2015.
As the vesting date fell soon after his appointment, a cash payment rather than an award of shares was considered fair and reasonable.
The payment was made in December 2015 and was subject to the deduction of tax and national insurance contributions: and nd a PSP award over 119,018 shares in the Company granted on 2 October 2015, representing 180% of base salary.
This award was in recognition of two outstanding long-term incentive awards for which performance measurement periods would end in March 2016 and 2017.
The Committee took the view that the PSP award was appropriate as it was of a lower fair value and matched the form of and would vest later than the awards forfeited.
Subject to the achievement of the same performance th measures and period as apply to the PSP awards granted on 9 April 2015, the award will vest on the third anniversary of grant.
Payments to past directors and for loss of office audited information st Further to the disclosure in last years Directors Remuneration Report, Michael Dunn stepped down from the Board on 31 May th 2015.
He remained on garden leave for the remainder of his notice period to 18 December 2015 when he ceased to be an employee of the Company.
st st Details of his remuneration from 1 December 2014 to 31 May 2015 can be found in the table on page 82.
For the period st th from 1 June 2015 to 30 November 2015 Michael received 145,605 in base salary, 5,644 in benefits and 21,841 in pension contribution.
He remained eligible to be awarded a bonus, subject to the achievement of performance measures, in respect of the st st period from 1 December 2014 to 31 May 2015: further details can be found on pages 83 and 84.
The Committee has exercised discretion under the rules of the PSP to allow unvested awards to continue subject to time prost rating and performance assessment.
Awards have been pro-rated to reflect the time elapsed from the date of grant to 31 May 2015: details can be found on pages 84 and 85.
Satisfaction of the performance conditions will be assessed at the end of the relevant performance periods in line with the PSP rules and vesting will remain subject to the Committees determination as to whether the two financial underpins details of which are set out in note 1 on page 77 have been met.
To the extent that they vest, awards will be exercisable for a period of six months from the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The SAYE award held by Michael Dunn is exercisable to the extent of accumulated savings plus any applicable interest in the six th months following 18 December 2015.
The Company also paid 1,250 plus VAT to Michael Dunns lawyers in respect of legal fees incurred by him in connection with his departure.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 88 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company are shown in the table below.
th st As at 30 November 2015 As at 1 December 2014 PSP awards PSP awards PSP awards PSP awards Ordinary vested but not yet ESOS SAYE Ordinary vested but not yet ESOS SAYE 1 shares unexercised vested awards awards shares unexercised vested awards awards Executive directors Bill Oliver 879,625 511,719 854,625 744,747 102,955 Steve Burke 500,258 337,641 9,887 480,489 491,397 39,825 9,887 2 2 2 Michael Dunn 247,861 140,743 9,887 222,861 447,350 9,887 3 3 3 3 3 Rob Hudson 119,018 Non-executive directors Bill Shannon 75,000 75,000 Ian Bull 15,000 15,000 Kay Chaldecott 10,000 10,000 Simon Clarke 3,112,657 3,112,657 Lesley James 20,000 20,000 Richard Mully 20,000 20,000 4 John Salmon 30,000 30,000 1 Awards had vested but had not been exercised.
st 2 On stepping down from the Board on 31 May 2015. th 3 On appointment to the Board on 28 September 2015. th 4 On retirement from the Board on 27 March 2015. th There were no changes in these shareholdings or interests between 30 November 2015 and the date of this report.
In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders, executive directors are required to build up a holding of ordinary shares in the Company over a five year period worth at least 200% of their base salary.
Both Bill Oliver and th Steve Burke have met and exceeded the shareholding requirement: Rob Hudson has until 28 September 2020 to do so.
th Ordinary shares held as at Shareholding requirement Shareholding at 30 November th 1 Executive director 30 November 2015 as % of base salary 2015 as % of base salary Bill Oliver 879,625 200% 785% Steve Burke 500,528 200% 676% Rob Hudson 200% 0% th th 1 Based on the closing mid-market share price on 30 November 2015 of 432.5p and salary as at 30 November 2015.
The Committee has noted investor sentiment and the provisions of the Code in respect of holding periods following the vesting or exercise of long-term incentive awards.
Given the substantial shareholding requirement set out above, the element of compulsory investment in shares of the annual bonus arrangements and robust incentive withholding and recovery provisions, the Committee does not currently feel that such holding periods are necessary for the Companys PSP arrangements.
However, detailed consideration will be given to this area in 2016 in respect of both future long-term incentive design and remuneration policy provisions, both of which will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
External appointments Michael Dunn is a non-executive director of Metropolitan Housing Trust.
He received and retained fees of 5,417 for the period st st from 1 December 2014 to 31 May 2015 when he ceased to be a director of the Company.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 89 245 4699 100164 165176 Historic Company performance and Chief Executive remuneration The following information allows comparison of the Companys TSR based on share price growth and dividends reinvested with the remuneration of Bill Oliver, Chief Executive, over the last seven financial years.
It shows the Companys TSR and that of the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Indices based on an th th initial investment of 100 on 30 November 2008 and values at intervening financial year ends over a seven year period to 30 November 2015.
Since the Company was a constituent of both the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services Indices during the year, these are considered to be appropriate benchmarks for the graph.
Chief Executive remuneration for year ended th 30 November 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 Total remuneration 000 876 902 1,049 1,672 2,419 3,083 2,227 Annual bonus awarded 2 as a % of maximum opportunity 50.00 80.00 95.00 90.00 95.00 100.00 100.00 PSP vesting as a % of 3 maximum opportunity 0.00 0.00 0.00 45.77 100.00 100.00 100.00 1 Total remuneration includes those elements shown in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 82.
2 In addition to the annual bonus, the Chief Executive was also awarded a one-off, exceptional payment of 100,000 in relation to the successful equity raising and financial restructuring undertaken in the year.
3 Comprises 45.64% of the 2009 PSP awards and 45.89% of the 2010 PSP awards.
Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to employees th The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus between the years ended 30 November th 2015 and 30 November 2014 for both the Chief Executive and for all permanent employees of the Company.
Change in base Change in Change in salary % benefits % annual bonus % 2 Chief Executive 3.0 0.0 3.0 1 3 4 All permanent employees 3.0 0.0 11.4 1 General cost of living increase for permanent employees.
Including adjustments for promotions and recognition of exceptional performance, the weighted average increase in salary was 4.6%.
2 The year on year decrease in benefits shown in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 82 reflects a reduction in taxable benefit arising following a change of company car.
3 There was no change to the overall structure of benefits available to permanent employees.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 90 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Relative spend on pay The table below shows the total expenditure on remuneration for all employees of the Company including pension, variable pay and social security costs compared to other key financial indicators as reported in the audited Group Financial Statements for the last two financial years.
Information in respect of profit and net asset value performance has been provided for context.
Relevant note to the Group Year ended Year ended th th Financial 30 November 30 November Measure Statements 2014 2015 % Increase Total spend on pay 3c 17.4m 21.8m 25% Profit before all tax 2a 135.4m 258.4m 91% Dividends paid 7 9.1m 11.1m 22% Equity attributable to owners of the Company 2f 718.1m 914.7m 27% Implementation of remuneration policy for 2015 16 Base salary In line with the general cost of living salary increase awarded to the Companys permanent employees, Bill Oliver and Steve Burke st received an annual salary increase of 3% with effect from 1 December 2015.
In light of his length of service the Committee determined that it was not appropriate to apply an increase to the salary payable to Rob Hudson.
Base salary with effect Base salary as at from th st 30 November 1 December Executive director 2015 2015 % Increase Bill Oliver 484,807 499,351 3.0% Steve Burke 319,885 329,481 3.0% 1 Rob Hudson 275,000 275,000 0.0% th 1 Appointed to the Board on 28 September 2015.
Benefits and pension arrangements th Benefits and pension arrangements for the financial year ending 30 November 2016 will be consistent with the respective policies detailed on page 75.
Annual bonus th The annual bonus arrangements for the financial year ending 30 November 2016 will operate on the same basis as for 2014 15 and will be consistent with the annual bonus policy detailed on page 76 including the Committees overriding discretion to ensure that payments reflect its view of corporate performance, the requirement for directors to invest an amount equal to one third of the net bonus received in the Companys shares and the operation of withholding and recovery provisions.
Executive directors will have the opportunity to earn a bonus of up to 125% of salary based on achievement of the following measures: Measure Proportion of salary payable Corporate Growth in shareholders equity netassetvalue per share For on target performance: 65% For maximum performance: 105% Increase in profit before all tax Increase in total dividend for the year Gearing levels Covenant compliance Achievement against a number of strategic objectives Personal Achievement against a number of operational objectives For on target performance: 10% For maximum performance: 20% The measures have been selected to reflect a range of key financial and operational goals which support the Companys strategic objectives.
The respective targets have not been disclosed as they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in the Remuneration Report for th the year ending 30 November 2016 provided that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
Bonus payments will not be dependent on achievement of any single target in isolation, since the measures and targets are all of key importance to the short and longer-term health of the Company and the Committee does not wish to distort behaviour by focusing on any single element.
The executive directors performance will be assessed individually by the Committee against the measures and targets, relying on audited information where appropriate, and having regard to the value which has been created for shareholders.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 91 245 4699 100164 165176 Long-term incentives PSP th As in 2014 15, PSP awards granted to executive directors in the financial year ending 30 November 2016 will be over shares worth 125% of salary and will be consistent with the long-term incentives policy detailed on page 77 including the application of the two underpin conditions before awards can vest and the operation of withholding and recovery provisions.
The Committee has undertaken a review of the TSR performance targets which will apply to the awards in order to consider changes in the outlook for the sector and the Company.
It remains satisfied that the existing targets remain sufficiently challenging and intends to apply these to the awards to be granted in 2016: these targets are set out in the table below and will be measured th over the three financial years ending on 30 November 2018.
Vesting of award Vesting of award Threshold at threshold Maximum at maximum Performance measure Weighting performance performance performance performance Absolute TSR growth 50% of award 20% 12.5% 50% 50% TSR relative to FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Equal 120% &Services Index 50% of award to Index 12.5% of Index 50% Vesting of awards between threshold and maximum performance will be on a straight line basis.
In calculating TSR, a three month average is used at both the start and the end of the performance period to ensure that the calculation is not impacted by potential volatility arising from day-to-day share price fluctuations.
The TSR data and relative positioning of St. Modwen is provided by New Bridge Street to ensure that performance is independently verified.
Chairman and non-executive director fees Following a review by the Board, the annual fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors have been increased in line st with the cost of living salary increase awarded to the Companys employees with effect from 1 December 2015.
Fee with effect Fee as at from th st 30 November 1 December 2015 2015 % Increase Base fee Chairman 154,500 159,135 3.0% Non-executive directors 42,436 43,709 3.0% Additional fees Senior Independent Director 9,000 9,000 0.0% Audit Committee Chairman 9,000 9,000 0.0% Remuneration Committee Chairman 9,000 9,000 0.0% Dates of appointment of directors Date of contract original Director Date of appointment letter of appointment Expiry of current term Executive directors th th Bill Oliver 24 January 2000 7 January 2016 N A th th Steve Burke 30 November 2006 18 January 2016 N A th th Rob Hudson 28 September 2015 20 April 2015 N A Non-executive directors 1 st th th Bill Shannon 1 November 2010 18 October 2010 30 October 2016 st st st Ian Bull 1 September 2014 21 August 2014 31 August 2017 nd nd st Kay Chaldecott 22 October 2012 22 October 2012 21 October 2018 th th th Simon Clarke 11 October 2004 4 October 2014 10 October 2016 th th th Lesley James 19 October 2009 19 October 2009 18 October 2016 st th st Richard Mully 1 September 2013 16 July 2013 31 August 2016 nd 1 Appointed Chairman on 22 March 2011.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 92 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Dilution limits In line with the rules of the PSP, ESOS and SAYE, the Company observes the recommendation of The Investment Association that the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy awards is restricted to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company over any rolling 10 year period.
Whilst not formally within the rules of the Companys existing executive share schemes, the Company also adheres to the recommended 5% in any rolling 10 year limit for its discretionary schemes.
The total number of shares which could be allotted under the Companys share schemes compared to the dilution limits as at th 30 November 2015 was as follows: Type of scheme Limit Actual All schemes 10% 3.24% Executive schemes only 5% 2.99% During the year a total of 500,000 shares were allotted to the Companys Employee Share Trust the Trust to enable it to th satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards.
As at 30 November 2015 the Trust held a total of 690,274 shares in the Company 2014: 460,427 shares and has, in accordance with the Trust deed, waived the right to receive dividends paid on these shares with the exception of a hundredth of a penny per share.
Committee membership The Committees composition is kept under review by the Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction to ensure that they have a sound and objective understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, executive remuneration matters.
Ongoing training is undertaken as required.
th 1 Remuneration Committee members Committee meetings and attendance during the year ended 30 November 2015 Lesley James Chairman 3 3 Ian Bull Member 3 3 Kay Chaldecott Member 3 3 Richard Mully Member 3 3 2 John Salmon Member 1 1 Bill Shannon Member 3 3 1 Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a director could attend.
th 2 Until retirement from the Board on 27 March 2015.
Remuneration Committee attendees by invitation Bill Oliver Chief Executive Simon Clarke Non-executive director Tanya Stote Company Secretary and secretary to the Committee Representatives from New Bridge Street Remuneration Committee advisor Advice provided to the Committee New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd the parent company of NBS and part of Aon plc, was re-appointed by the Committee in 2014 following a tender process to provide independent advice on remuneration matters.
Representatives from NBS attend Committee meetings and provide advice to the Committee Chairman outside of meetings as necessary.
In 2014 15 NBS provided specific advice to the Committee on remuneration arrangements relating to the departure of Michael Dunn and the appointment of Rob Hudson, the application of withholding and recovery provisions and TSR monitoring services.
Fees are th charged on a cost incurred basis and totalled 50,500 in the year ended 30 November 2015.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under the Groups code which sets out the scope and conduct of the role of executive remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies.
Neither NBS nor Aonplc undertakes any other work for the Company, and the Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by NBS remains objective and independent.
The Committee also receives input from Bill Oliver, the Chief Executive, on the remuneration arrangements of the other executive directors and of the Company Secretary, and advice from Tanya Stote, the Company Secretary, on governance matters.
Neither the Chief Executive nor the Company Secretary were present when their own remuneration was discussed.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 93 245 4699 100164 165176 Activities of the Committee th The Committee met on three occasions in the financial year ended 30 November 2015 to consider the following matters: to review the executive directors base salaries and the fee payable to the Chairman: to set corporate and personal objectives for the 2015 16 annual bonus arrangements for executive directors and undertake an assessment of performance against targets for 2014 15: to approve the outturn of PSP awards granted in 2012: to approve share awards granted in 2015 together with associated performance criteria: to approve the application of withholding and recovery provisions to the rules of both the PSP and annual bonus arrangements in line with Code requirements: to determine the application of the remuneration policy for the recruitment of Rob Hudson: to consider investor feedback on the Companys remuneration policy and the report on directors remuneration for the 2014 Annual Report: to review market trends and the governance environment in respect of remuneration arrangements: to formulate actions required to enable shareholder approval of the Companys proposed remuneration policy and revised longterm incentive arrangements to be sought in 2017: to review the Committees performance and terms of reference: and to prepare this report on directors remuneration.
Statement of shareholder voting at the AGM th At the AGM held on 27 March 2015 votes cast in respect of directors remuneration were as follows: No.
of votes for % of vote for against % of vote against Total votes cast Votes withheld To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the policy section 165,897,466 98.54% 2,458,130 1.46% 168,355,596 387,682 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for or against a resolution.
This report on remuneration has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Lesley James Chairman of the Remuneration Committee st 1 February 2016
