SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Remuneration Committee Chairmans The year under review Performance and reward Our remuneration policy was approved in September 2014 As a result of this years financial performance target not having Annual Statement unaudited with 94% of votes cast in favour.
The Committee gave full been met there will be no annual bonus payments made to This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with consideration to the operation of the policy prior to proposing it executive directors for the year ended 25 April 2015 in respect Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups to shareholders at the AGM and considers the level of support of Group financial performance.
However, having met the Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and obtained to be a strong endorsement.
The Remuneration personal strategic objectives agreed at appointment in October 9.8.
Committee has reviewed the Directors Remuneration Policy 2014, Euan Sutherland will receive an amount equal to 50% of The Directors Remuneration Report has been divided into the during the year and remains of the view that it promotes the his pro rated salary in respect of the non-financial targets of the following three sections: attraction, motivation and retention of the executives required annual bonus.
to successfully drive our strategy.
As such, the Committee has 1.
This Remuneration Committee Chairmans Annual The performance share plan PSP award granted in 2012 in decided that no changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy Statement: This summarises and explains the major respect of the three year performance period which ended on are required.
decisions taken by the Committee, how the Directors 25 April 2015 is due to vest in August 2015 and is expected Remuneration Policy was operated in the year just ended In addition to reviewing the Directors Remuneration Policy and to vest at 32.4% of the original award.
This is based on 46.2% and how it will operate for the current year.
how it operated during the year just ended, the Committee vesting against the earnings per share EPS targets 70% determined the remuneration arrangements in respect of of awards and 0% against the relative total shareholder return 2.
Directors Remuneration Policy: This sets out the basis Euan Sutherlands appointment as Chief Executive Officer on TSR targets 30% of awards.
Further details about our share of remuneration for our directors which was approved 22 October 2014.
The package reflects his significant levels of schemes can be found on pages 67 to 68. by shareholders at the AGM in September 2014 and is experience in international and online expansion obtained from unchanged.
Although not required to be included in the The year ahead senior executive positions in a number of leading retailers and report this year, the policy has been included in line with As explained, no changes will be made to the Directors has been focused towards long-term share-based performancebest practice and to assist the reader.
No base salary increases were linked remuneration to reflect our ambitions for growth.
Details awarded to executive directors with effect from 26 April 2015, 3.
Annual Report on Remuneration: This sets out the of the remuneration package, which is within the shareholder the annual bonus will continue to be capped at 100% of base remuneration earned by our directors in the year ended approved policy, were announced on his appointment and are salary 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer with 25 April 2015 and explains how the remuneration policy will set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
any award in excess of 100% being awarded in deferred shares be implemented in the current financial year.
Hans Schmitt December 2014, Shaun Wills February 2015 and PSP awards will continue to be based 70% on EPS and 30% The approach of our Remuneration Committee has remained and Susanne Given February 2015 all left the Company during on relative TSR.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial consistent with previous years: executive directors receive a FY15.
Details of their termination arrangements are presented in Officer will receive awards of 200% of salary award levels for mix of annual and long-term incentives which reward strong the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 78. the Chief Financial Officer are expected to be 100% of salary business and financial performance in line with our strategy thereafter.
Malus and clawback provisions will continue to apply.
and which are measured against robust benchmarks.
The The Remuneration Committee is confident that the actions Committee considers that the remuneration arrangements during FY15 and the continuation of the previously approved promote our long-term success within a suitable risk framework, Directors Remuneration Policy will continue to ensure that the are suitably aligned to enhancing shareholder value and that the executive directors are properly incentivised to deliver strong actual remuneration earned by the executive directors continues and sustainable growth.
to be a good reflection of their and our overall performance.
Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Keith Edelman Remuneration Committee Chairman 8 July 2015 www.
co. uk 64 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Directors Remuneration Policy unaudited In formulating the remuneration policy, full consideration has been given to the principles set out in the Code.
The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the policy to ensure it takes account of Financial Financial best practice and serves our needs.
As part of the regular review, the Remuneration Committee encourages dialogue with major shareholders and considers their feedback, alongside guidance from Statements.
the major shareholder representative bodies.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report and any matters discussed with shareholders during the year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
This section sets out the Directors Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 19 September 2014 in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
There are no proposed changes to this policy.
Policy overview We aim to provide a remuneration structure and approach that enables the attraction, retention and motivation of high calibre people with the capability to drive continued growth of the business and which is aligned to shareholder interests.
Where the Remuneration Committee has discretion in implementing the remuneration policy, that discretion will be exercised diligently and in a manner aligned with shareholder interests.
Discretion will only be exercised within the boundaries and limits set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Committee will not seek to make changes to any element of executive director remuneration to compensate participants for changes in their personal tax status.
Summary of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy Element Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Set at levels to attract and retain talented executive directors of the high calibre required to develop and deliver the growth strategy.
Base salary will reflect the individual skill, experience and role of the executive within the Group whilst reflecting that paid to executives of comparable companies.
Operation When determining base salary the Committee typically takes into account: business and individual performance: salary levels at companies of a similar size, industry, global scope and complexity: and the salaries paid to other employees across the Group.
Base salary is normally paid on a monthly basis in cash.
The base salary for each executive director is normally reviewed annually in May by the Remuneration Committee although an out of cycle review may be conducted if the Remuneration Committee determines it appropriate.
A salary review will not necessarily lead to an increase in salary.
Maximum opportunity There is no prescribed maximum base salary level or maximum annual increase.
Salary increases will typically be in line with the general level of increase awarded to other employees in the Group and or the directors country of employment.
In exceptional circumstances e. g. where there is an increase in scale, scope and or responsibility, to reflect the development and success of the individual within the role, and or to take account of relevant levels market movements a higher increase may be awarded.
Current salaries are detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measures Individual and business performance is taken into consideration when deciding salary levels.
co. uk 65 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Element Retirement Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide retirement benefits which are market competitive and to enable us to attract and retain executive directors of the right calibre.
Operation Executive directors can choose to participate in the personal pension plan relevant to the country where they are employed, or to receive a cash allowance, or a combination of the two.
Our Group personal pension plan is a defined contribution plan.
Maximum opportunity The maximum Company contribution to an executive directors pension or equivalent cash allowance may not exceed 15% of base salary.
Element Other Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To ensure a competitiveness with broader market practice.
To support personal health and well-being.
Operation Benefit provision is set at an appropriate market level taking into account the executive directors home jurisdiction, the jurisdiction where they are based, market practices at similar companies and the level type of benefits provided elsewhere in the Group.
The benefits to which executive directors are entitled include but are not limited to a biannual health assessment, private medical insurance for the individual and their family, company sick pay, holiday pay, life assurance, car allowance and staff discount on Superdry products.
Other benefits may be provided where appropriate.
In country and global relocation support may also be provided where appropriate.
Executive directors are eligible to participate, on the same basis as other employees, in our Sharesave scheme and will be entitled to participate in any other all-employee share plan operated in the future.
Maximum opportunity There is no maximum level of benefits provided to an individual executive director.
Participation by executive directors in the Sharesave scheme, and any other all-employee share plan operated in the future, is limited to the maximum award levels permitted by HM Revenue and Customs.
co. uk 66 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Element Annual Performance Bonus Purpose and link to strategy To encourage and reward the achievement of challenging financial and strategic performance targets during a financial year.
The performance Financial Financial measures set each year align to our strategy and shareholder value creation.
Operation Bonus payments are normally awarded in cash and are not pensionable.
An individual executive director may choose to defer bonus awarded into our Group personal pension plan.
The Remuneration Committee may defer part of an executive directors annual bonus into SuperGroup shares for a specified period of time.
Maximum opportunity Up to 150% of base salary.
Performance measures Performance is normally assessed over one financial year.
The annual performance bonus may be based on a mix of financial, personal and or strategic business objectives relevant to the particular performance year and is aimed at securing a sustainable long-term business model.
The performance criteria and performance targets are determined by the Remuneration Committee each year and include threshold levels for minimum award below which no bonus will be awarded, on-target award and maximum award.
The Remuneration Committee will set demanding performance targets to encourage stretch performance.
These targets are considered to be commercially confidential and will therefore be disclosed in due course after the performance period has ended.
A straight-line sliding scale between threshold 0% of opportunity, target 50% of opportunity and maximum 100% of opportunity is used to determine the level of award.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
Element Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and reward executive directors to develop and deliver strategic plans that create long-term value through the setting of strategic targets: and to ensure a strong link between reward, underlying Group financial performance and total shareholder returns.
To support recruitment, long-term retention and collaborative working through share ownership.
Operation Awards are granted on a discretionary basis and normally vest subject to performance and continued employment at the end of a three year performance and vesting period.
Awards may be structured as conditional awards or nil or nominal cost options.
Executive directors may benefit, in the form of cash or shares, from the value of any dividend paid over the vesting period to the extent that awards vest.
Maximum opportunity Maximum award limit: 200% of salary.
Exceptional circumstances award limit: 300% of salary for recruitment or retention.
Performance measures Normally based on a three year performance period.
Performance measures will be based on financial metrics e. g. Earnings Per Share EPS and or relative total shareholder return TSR.
25% of an award vests for threshold performance increasing to 100% vesting for maximum performance.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply.
co. uk 67 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Element Share Ownership Guidelines Purpose and link to strategy To increase alignment between management and shareholders.
Operation Executive directors not holding shares worth at least 100% of their base salary will be expected to retain 50% of any PSP awards which vest net of tax until such time as this level of holding is met.
Maximum opportunity Minimum of 100% of base salary.
Financial performance measures e. g. EPS and TSR are All employee share schemes in the UK the Company Remuneration arrangements across used for the PSPs performance criteria.
The Groups key operates a Sharesave scheme which is open to all eligible the Group performance indicators, as set out in the Strategic Report, employees.
Employees can elect to save up to 500 each The reward philosophy is consistent across the Group, namely contribute to the delivery of profit before tax, EPS and TSR.
month for a fixed period of three years.
At the end of the that reward should support our business strategy and be The combination of EPS and TSR performance conditions for savings period, individuals may use their savings to buy sufficient to attract and retain high performing individuals.
Within the PSP provides a balance between rewarding management ordinary SuperGroup shares at a discount capped at up to this framework, there are differences for a range of objective for growth in sustainable profitability and stock market 20% of the market price set at the launch of each scheme.
reasons, including global location, culture, best practice, outperformance.
TSR is a clear indicator of the relative Shareholder approval will be sought for the introduction of a employment regulation and the local talent market.
success of the Group in delivering shareholder value and, as share incentive plan and company share option plan at the a performance measure, firmly aligns the interests of directors Salaries and benefits a range of factors are considered forth-coming AGM see notice of AGM for further details.
The EPS target range will require significant including business performance, individual capability and Retirement benefits in line with local country practices, we levels of growth and the TSR condition will be based on relative performance, the pay of other employees and external encourage all employees to contribute appropriate savings outperformance of selected listed companies.
In the UK, we operate pension against the TSR and EPS targets will be independently Annual performance bonus consistent with the policy for arrangements within the Occupational and Personal Pension calculated and reviewed by the Remuneration Committee.
executive directors, annual bonuses that are in place across Schemes Automatic Enrolment Regulations 2010.
In approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority was the Group are typically linked to business performance with a given to the Company to honour any commitments entered focus on underlying Group profit, although we retain the right into with current or former directors.
Details of any payments to void a bonus award in circumstances where we deem an to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on individual has not performed to an acceptable level or has Remuneration as they arise.
acted inappropriately during the performance period.
PSP a small number of the management team who provide significant strategic input or lead a significant function within the Company, and more junior employees who have made an exceptional contribution, may be invited to participate in the PSP in any year.
co. uk 68 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Executive directors service agreements The following table sets out a description of any obligations on the Company, contained in the current executive directors service contracts, which could give rise to, or impact, remuneration payments Financial Financial or payments for loss of office.
Element Terms Notice period A maximum of 12 months by the Company and 12 months by the executive director.
Contract date Euan Sutherland 22 October 2014 Julian Dunkerton 12 March 2010 James Holder 12 March 2010 Nick Wharton 24 June 2015 Expiry date Euan Sutherland, Julian Dunkerton, James Holder and Nick Wharton have no fixed expiry date.
Base salary Contractual entitlement to receive a base salary and for a salary review to take place each year.
We are not obliged to increase an executive directors salary following a review.
Pension contributions Employer pension contribution.
Contractual benefits Contractual entitlement to: private medical insurance: company sick pay: life assurance: holiday pay: car allowance: and discount on Superdry products.
Annual bonus Contractual entitlement to participate in the annual performance bonus scheme, subject to our policy in relation to such a scheme and to the approval of the Committee.
Long-term incentive plan Contractual entitlement to be considered for participation in the PSP, subject to our policy in relation to such a scheme and to the approval of the PSP Remuneration Committee.
The service contract for a new executive director will not include any provision that is more generous than those listed above.
All executive director service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at our registered office during normal hours of business and will also be available at our AGM to be held on 9 September 2015.
With the consent of the Board, where an appointment can enhance an individual executive directors experience and add value to the Company, executive directors are able to accept non-executive appointments outside the Company.
Retention of any fees received by the executive director is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
co. uk 69 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be The operation of our Sharesave scheme will be as permitted Discretions retained by the Committee explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, under HM Revenue and Customs rules and the Listing Rules.
The Remuneration Committee will operate the annual bonus as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with our major Details of share awards held by executive directors at the plan and PSP according to their respective rules or relevant shareholders.
end of the financial year are set out in the Annual Report on documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules where Remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest based on their relevant.
The Remuneration Committee retains certain original award terms.
discretions, consistent with market practice, with regard to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include, Illustrations of application of the Directors Remuneration Policy but are not limited to, the following in relation to the PSP: Our remuneration arrangements have been designed so that a substantial proportion of reward is dependent on the achievement of the participants: the timing of grant of an award: the size of stretching short and long-term performance targets.
The chart below shows the value of the current executive directors packages an award: the determination of vesting: discretion required under three reward scenarios minimum, on-target and maximum.
if dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: determination of the treatment of leavers: adjustments 3,500 required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : reviewing 3,000 performance measures and weighting: and targets for the PSP from year to year.
2,500 1,350 In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee retains 2,000 discretion over: the participants: the timing of grant of a 675 payment: the determination of the bonus payment: dealing with 1,500 a change of control: determination of the treatment of leavers 1,013 506 based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment 1,000 400 chosen: the annual review of performance measures and 200 400 200 400 weighting: and targets for the annual bonus plan from year 500 200 300 807 807 807 150 475 475 475 to year.
419 419 419 315 315 315 0 In relation to both our PSP and annual bonus plan, the Remuneration Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Founder, Product and Brand Director Founder, Brand and Design Director it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and Fixed Variable PSP the adjustment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
We The chart above is based on the following assumptions: have used EPS as a determining measure since inception for the PSP: it is therefore consistent and transparent to participants Base salary as at 1 May 2015. and shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee will exercise Estimated value of benefits.
discretion if required to adjust EPS to reflect what it considers to be a fairer outcome for shareholders and executive directors.
On-target bonus taken to be 50% of the maximum potential 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer, 100% of salary for In both the current and prior year, the Remuneration Committee other executive directors.
has excluded re-measurements and exceptional items from both On-target PSP award excluding Julian Dunkerton and James Holder is taken to be 50% of the maximum potential 200% of the PSP and the annual bonus plan.
salary for Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary for Chief Financial Officer.
Consistent with the disclosure requirements, no share price appreciation has been assumed.
co. uk 70 000s Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
For external and internal appointments, the Remuneration date, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance Approach to the recruitment and retention Committee may agree that certain relocation and or incidental conditions at that time and will be reduced pro rata to reflect of executive directors expenses as appropriate will be met.
the proportion of the performance period actually served.
However, in the event of the death of an executive director, When hiring a new executive director or promoting to the Board Policy on payment for loss of office the Remuneration Committee has discretion to determine that from within the Group, the Remuneration Committee will offer We are committed to ensuring a consistent approach so awards vest at cessation, subject to performance targets, with a package that is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate the that we do not pay more than is necessary in circumstances no service pro rata reduction.
right talent, whilst at all times aiming to pay no more than is leading to loss of office.
In the event of an early termination necessary.
In determining an appropriate remuneration package, Payment may also be made in respect of accrued benefits, of a contract, the policy is to seek to minimise any liability.
the Remuneration Committee will take into consideration all including untaken holiday entitlement.
When managing such situations the Remuneration Committee relevant factors including but not limited to the impact on takes a range of factors into account, including contractual In addition, as is consistent with market practice, we may other existing remuneration arrangements, the candidates obligations, shareholder interests, organisational stability and pay a contribution towards an executive directors legal fees location and experience, external market influences and internal the need to ensure an effective handover.
Executive directors for entering into a statutory agreement and may pay a pay relativities.
may be entitled to a payment in lieu of notice PILON if contribution towards fees for outplacement services as part of a notice is served by us.
In the normal course of events, the negotiated settlement.
The remuneration package for a new executive director would executive director would work their notice period.
In the event be set in accordance with the terms of our prevailing approved There is no provision for additional compensation on of termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct or negligence, remuneration policy at the time of appointment and take into termination following a change of control, nor liquidated neither notice nor PILON would be given and the executive account the skills and experience of the individual, the market damages of any kind.
director would cease to perform services immediately.
rate for a candidate of that experience and the importance of securing the relevant individual.
In the event of termination for reasons other than cause for Consideration of conditions elsewhere in example, resignation where the individual is requested by us to our Company Salary would be provided at such a level as required to attract cease working before the end of the notice period, PILON may The Remuneration Committee has oversight of the main the most appropriate candidate and may be set initially at be payable.
If a portion of the notice period is served, the PILON compensation structures throughout the Group and actively a below mid-market level on the basis that it may progress payment will be reduced on a pro rata basis.
Payments may considers the relationship between general changes to towards the mid-market level once expertise and performance be made on a phased basis.
Alternatively, rather than making a employee remuneration and executive director reward.
When has been proven and sustained.
The annual bonus potential PILON, we may place an executive director on garden leave for considering changes to executive director remuneration, would be limited to 150% of salary and grants under the the duration of some or all of their notice period.
the Remuneration Committee is provided with comparative PSP would be limited to 200% of salary 300% of salary in employee information for example, average salary review exceptional circumstances.
Where an executive director leaves during a financial year, the across the Group.
annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the In addition, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional financial year worked although it will be pro rated for time and The Remuneration Committee does not consider it appropriate cash and or share-based elements to replace deferred or paid at the normal payment date.
to consult directly with employees when formulating executive incentive pay forfeited by an executive director leaving a director reward policy.
However, it does take into account previous employer.
It would seek to ensure, where possible, that Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive information provided by the Director of HR.
these awards would be consistent with awards forfeited in terms director under our share plans will be determined based of vesting periods, expected value and performance conditions.
on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment under the PSP is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of For an internal executive director appointment, any variable employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be such as death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, sale of allowed to pay out according to its terms.
In addition, any other the employing company or business outside the Group or any ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration may continue.
Committee, good leaver status may be applied.
For good leavers, awards will normally vest on their normal vesting www.
co. uk 71 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Consideration of shareholder views The members of the Remuneration Committee are always available to discuss any issues or concerns with shareholders.
Summary of the Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy The Board aims to recruit high calibre non-executive directors with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
The remuneration policy is as follows: Element Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Fees are set at an appropriate level to attract and retain high calibre non-executive directors, and reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of each role and fees paid in other companies of a similar size, industry, global scope and complexity.
Operation Fees are normally reviewed annually.
Fees are normally paid in cash.
Each non-executive director is paid a basic fee for undertaking non-executive director and Board duties.
A higher fee is typically paid to the Chairman of the Board and the Senior Independent Director.
Additional fees may also be payable for taking on Committee responsibilities and other Board duties.
Non-executive directors also receive staff discount on Superdry products.
Maximum opportunity As is the case for the executive directors, there is no prescribed maximum fee or maximum fee increase.
Performance measures Individual and business performance is taken into consideration when deciding fee levels.
When recruiting a new non-executive director, the remuneration arrangements offered will be consistent with the policy presented above.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years.
This period may be renewed.
Appointments may be terminated by either the Company or the non-executive director giving three months notice, or in the case of the Chairman, 12 months written notice.
Save in respect of retirement by rotation, a non-executive director being removed from office will be entitled to compensation equal to the fee during any remaining notice period.
Date of appointment or Expected date of expiry Name reappointment of current term Peter Bamford 29 January 2013 28 January 2016 Keith Edelman 29 January 2013 28 January 2016 Ken McCall 29 January 2013 28 January 2016 Minnow Powell 1 December 2012 30 November 2015 Penny Hughes 1 April 2015 31 March 2018 All non-executive director service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at our registered office during normal hours of business and will also be available at our AGM to be held on 9 September 2015. www.
co. uk 72 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Consistent with the FY15 awards, performance for FY16 awards Benefits in kind and pension audited 3.
Annual Report on Remuneration will be 70% based on sliding scale EPS and 30% based on TSR Benefits will continue to include a biannual health assessment, The following part of the Directors Remuneration Report, relative to a selected group of retailers as measured over the Financial Financial private medical insurance for the individual and their family, sick together with the Annual Statement, will be subject to an Statements.
three year period ending the 2018 financial year end: pay, holiday pay, life assurance, car allowance and staff discount advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 9 September 2015 on Superdry products.
Other benefits may be provided where and sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy will be 25% of the EPS-related component of the award will vest appropriate.
We will continue to contribute no more than 15% of implemented in 2016, and how it was implemented in 2015. for average annual EPS growth of 8% p. a. increasing on a salary into the Group personal pension plan and or in the form This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with straight-line basis to 50% of the EPS-related component of of a salary supplement.
Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups the award vesting for average annual EPS growth of 10% Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and p. a. : increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for Annual bonus audited 9.8.
EPS growth of at least 12% p. a. : and We will continue to operate an annual bonus plan for FY16 The following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts are based on the achievement of challenging financial metrics, 25% of the TSR-related component of the award will identified as audited or unaudited as appropriate.
business objectives and personal strategic objectives.
vest if the Companys TSR is ranked at the median of a Specific targets will not be disclosed in advance as they are comparator group increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% Implementation of the Remuneration Policy commercially confidential, but will be disclosed next year.
The vesting at the upper quartile of the group.
The comparator for 2016: maximum bonus opportunity in FY16 will be 150% of base group for the FY15 awards will comprise the companies salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of base salary Base salary audited listed in the following FTSE AllShare subsectors: Apparel for other executive directors.
Executive directors base salaries are normally reviewed Retailers, Broadline Retailers, Clothing and Accessories, annually, taking into account business and individual Furnishings, Home Improvement Retailers, Recreational Long-term incentives audited performance, salary levels at companies of a similar size, Products, Speciality Retailers and Toys at the start of the TSR The SuperGroup PSP enables us to incentivise and reward industry, global scope and complexity and the salaries paid to performance period.
participants appropriately for contributing to the delivery of our other employees across the Group.
No changes have been strategic objectives and to provide an appropriate level of longIn addition to the TSR performance condition, the Remuneration made to base salary for existing executive directors.
Committee must also be satisfied that there has been an annual base salary levels are as follows: improvement in our underlying financial performance.
For FY16, the grant for the Chief Executive Officer, Euan From From 1 1 Sutherland, and the Chief Financial Officer, Nick Wharton, will be 26 April 2015 27 April 2014 200% of salary.
Although Julian Dunkerton and James Holder Euan are eligible to participate in the PSP, the Committee believes that 2 Sutherland Chief Executive Officer 675,000 675,000 their significant shareholdings in the Company are sufficient to incentivise them and align interests with longer-term Company Julian Founder, Product & performance at the current time.
Dunkerton Brand Director 400,000 400,000 James Founder, Brand & Holder Design Director 300,000 300,000 Nick 3 Wharton Chief Financial Officer 400,000 1 On appointment if later.
2 Euan Sutherland was appointed to the Board as an executive director on 22 October 2014.
3 Nick Wharton was appointed to the Board as an executive director on 24 June 2015. www.
co. uk 73 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Non-executive directors audited Fee levels for FY16 are as follows: Audit Remuneration Senior Base Committee Independent From 26 April From 27 April 1 Name fee chairmanship Director 2015 2014 2 Peter Bamford 190,000 190,000 165,000 Keith Edelman 50,000 10,000 10,000 70,000 70,000 Minnow Powell 50,000 10,000 60,000 60,000 Ken McCall 50,000 50,000 50,000 Penny Hughes 50,000 50,000 50,000 1 On appointment if later.
2 Following a review of the Chairmans time commitment and fees paid by comparable organisations, Peter Bamfords fee was increased from 165,000 to 190,000 with effect from 1 May 2015.
co. uk 74 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Base Taxable Pension Annual Long-term Other 1 2&3 Director salary fees benefits contributions bonus incentives payments Total Financial Financial Non-executive directors Statements.
For non-executive directors certain expenses relating to the performance of a directors duties in carrying out activities, such as travel to and from Company meetings, are classified as taxable benefits.
In such cases, the Company will ensure that the director is not out of pocket by settling the related tax via the PAYE Settlement Agreement PSA.
In line with current regulations these taxable benefits have been disclosed and are shown in the taxable benefits column in the directors remuneration table above.
The figures shown include the cost of the expenses grossed up for tax and National Insurance.
2 Susanne Given, Hans Schmitt and Shaun Wills participated in the Companys Group personal pension plan under which the executive director contributes 5% of base salary and the Company contributes 7.5% of base salary.
3 Euan Sutherland received a Company contribution of 15% of base salary in the form of either pension contribution or cash allowance.
4 Susanne Given resigned as a director on 12 February 2015 and will leave the Company on 31 August 2015.
5 Hans Schmitt resigned as a director and left the Company on 31 December 2014.
6 Shaun Wills ceased to be a director on 25 February 2015 and left the Company on 27 February 2015. www.
co. uk 75 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Annual bonus for the year ended 25 April 2015 For FY15 the maximum annual bonus opportunity was 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer pro rated from appointment and 100% of salary for the other executive directors.
Reflecting that Euan Sutherlands appointment was part-way through the financial year, his bonus arrangement was based two-thirds on profit-related targets and one-third on personal strategic targets while the bonus arrangement for all other executive directors was based purely on profit-related targets.
The performance against the targets was as follows: Start to earn Full Payout Actual Bonus Award 1 Profit-related targets 100% of annual bonus for executive directors and ex Chief Threshold Maximum Threshold No payout under this element Executive Officer, 66.6% of Chief Executive Officers bonus 2 Personal strategic targets 33.3% of Chief Executive Officers total bonus opportunity Threshold Maximum Maximum Full payout under this element Chief Executive Officer only 1 The profit-related targets for the 2015 financial year, against which the threshold target was not met, have not been disclosed as they are considered to be commercially confidential.
They will be published in the FY16 Annual Report.
2 The personal strategic targets agreed for Euan Sutherland were based on fostering a strong working relationship with the founders, developing a new trading plan and strategic framework, establishing improved communication throughout the senior management population and reviewing the structure of the leadership team.
Following a review of the defined measures of success, the actual achievements and supporting evidence, the Committee was satisfied that each of the objectives was met in full.
Annual bonus for the year ended 26 April 2014 For FY14 the maximum annual bonus opportunity was 100% of salary for all executive directors pro-rated from appointment where relevant.
Julian Dunkerton and James Holder chose to waive their bonus award.
The performance against the targets was as follows: Start to earn Full Payout Actual Bonus Award Profit-related targets 100% of annual bonus for executive directors Threshold 56m Maximum 62.5m 62m 90% Performance share plan The PSP awards granted on 16 August 2012 was based on a three year performance period ended 25 April 2015.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, the performance condition for these awards was as follows: Metric Performance Condition Threshold Target Stretch Target Actual % Vesting Earnings per share 70% 25% of this part vests for average annual EPS growth of 12% in excess of 12% in excess 18% in excess 13.7% 46.2% RPI, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% of this part vesting for EPS of RPI of RPI in excess max.
70% growth of at least 18% per annum in excess of RPI.
of RPI Total shareholder returns 30% 25% of this part of the award vests if the Companys TSR is ranked at the Median Upper quartile Median 0% max.
30% median of the comparator companies, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting of this part if the Companys TSR is ranked at the upper quartile of the comparator group comprising FTSE AllShare companies in the following subsectors: Apparel Retailers, Broadline Retailers, Clothing and Accessories, Furnishings, Home Improvement Retailers, Recreational Products & Services, Restaurants & Bars, Speciality Retailers and Toys.
32.4% None of the current executive directors held 2012 PSP awards at the year end.
Details of the awards held by Susanne Given are presented in the Board Changes section below awards held by Shaun Wills lapsed on leaving the Company.
co. uk 76 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Board Changes Appointment of Chief Executive Officer Financial Financial The Board announced the appointment of Euan Sutherland, previously a non-executive director of the Company, as Group Chief Executive Officer on 22 October 2014.
At the same time, Julian Statements.
Dunkerton, previously Group Chief Executive Officer, switched to the newly created role of Founder, Product and Brand Director.
The main elements of Euans remuneration package, which reflects the significant levels of experience that he brings to the role and which is consistent with the shareholder approved Directors Remuneration Policy, are as follows: Salary: 675,000 p. a.
Annual bonus: Capped at 150% of salary with up to 100% paid in cash with the remainder awarded via shares deferred for three years.
The annual bonus is assessed based on a mix of financial, personal and or strategic business objectives and in the year of appointment, two-thirds was financial and one-third was based on strategic personal performance.
Performance share plan PSP award on appointment equivalent to 300% of salary with vesting subject to performance and continued employment over three years.
Subsequent awards are expected to be limited to no more than 200% of salary.
The annual bonus and PSP awards are both subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Appointment of Chief Financial Officer The Board announced the appointment of Nick Wharton as Chief Financial Officer on 24 June 2015.
The main elements of Nicks remuneration package, which reflects his experience as both a Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer of other retailers and which is consistent with the shareholder approved Directors Remuneration Policy, are as follows: Salary: 400,000 p. a.
Annual bonus: Capped at 100% of salary.
The annual bonus is assessed based on a mix of financial, personal and strategic business objectives.
Performance share plan PSP award on appointment equivalent to 200% of salary with vesting subject to performance and continued employment over three years.
Subsequent awards are expected to be limited to no more than 100% of salary.
co. uk 77 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Payments for loss of office audited Susanne Given stepped down from the Board as Chief Operating Officer on 12 February 2015 and will cease employment on 31 August 2015.
She will continue to receive her usual contractual entitlements up until the 31 August 2015 save for certain benefits which ceased from 31 March 2015 and will also receive a payment in lieu of the remaining notice period due under her employment contract of 204,166.
In respect of PSP awards, the 2012 awards 241,615 shares under award will vest on 16 August 2015 at 32.4% of the maximum see page 76 and the 2013 and 2014 PSP awards will vest at the normal time subject to time pro rating and performance 20,852 and 11,415 pro rated shares under award respectively.
Shaun Wills ceased to be Chief Financial Officer on 25 February 2015 and left the Company on 27 February 2015.
Other than contractual entitlements payable for the period up to 27 February 2015, no remuneration or payment has been or will be made in connection with his ceasing to be a director and officer of the Company.
All outstanding share awards lapsed on leaving the Company.
Hans Schmitt stepped down from the Board as Managing Director International & Wholesale and left the Company on 31 December 2014.
Other than contractual entitlements payable for the period up to 31 December 2014, no remuneration or payment has been or will be made in connection with his ceasing to be a director and officer of the Company.
Payments to past directors audited No payments were made to past directors during the year.
Scheme interests awarded during the year audited PSP awards granted in the year On 14 August 2014 22 October 2014 for the Chief Executive Officer, PSP awards were granted to executive directors as follows: Number of Performance Performance 1 Executive PSP awards Basis Face value condition period 2 Susanne Given 34,246 100% of base salary 350,000 Vesting will be 4 2 Shaun Wills 32,289 100% of base salary 330,000 determined by EPS Three financial years 4 2 and TSR over the ending 2016 17 Hans Schmitt 32,289 100% of base salary 330,000 performance period 3 Euan Sutherland 193,965 300% of base salary 2,025,000 1 PSP awards are structured as nil-cost options.
2 Based on a share price of 10.22 which was the 10 day weighted average share price.
3 Based on a share price of 10.44 which was the 10 day weighted average share price.
4 Lapsed on leaving the Company.
co. uk 78 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
The performance condition for these awards is set out below: % of award subject % of PSP award Financial Financial Performance condition to condition Targets which will vest Statements.
1 Average annual earnings per share EPS growth in excess of the Retail Prices Index RPI 70% Average annual EPS growth of 25% 9.5% in excess of RPI Average annual EPS growth of 100% 14.5% in excess of RPI Between 9.5% and 14.5% average Straight-line between annual EPS growth in excess of RPI 25% and 100% 2 Total Shareholder Return TSR against comparator group of companies 30% Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile Straight-line between 25% and 100% 1 The Committee retains the ability to adjust the EPS condition if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the condition is no longer appropriate and amendment is required so that the condition achieves its original purpose and is not materially less difficult to satisfy.
2 TSR comparator group: those companies listed in the following FTSE AllShare subsectors: Apparel Retailers, Broadline Retailers, Clothing and Accessories, Furnishings, Home Improvement Retailers, Recreational Products & Services, Restaurants & Bars, Speciality Retailers and Toys.
co. uk 79 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Directors interests in share awards audited The tables below set out details of the executive directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to performance and or continued service.
The PSP awards are all structured as conditional awards.
co. uk 80 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Share ownership The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of SuperGroup at 25 April 2015 are set out below: Financial Financial Statements.
Shareholding Interests in ordinary shares Interests in shares guideline Director 25 April 2015 26 April 2014 achieved PSP SAYE Total Executive directors Euan Sutherland 11,613 1,496 No 193,965 205,578 Julian Dunkerton 26,088,944 26,088,944 Yes 26,088,944 James Holder 9,667,190 11,850,003 Yes 9,667,190 Non-executive directors Peter Bamford 6,000 6,000 6,000 Keith Edelman 4,000 4,000 4,000 Ken McCall 5,000 5,000 5,000 Minnow Powell 1,496 1,496 1,496 Penny Hughes 0 N A 0 Former directors Susanne Given 0 0 N A 273,882 273,882 Hans Schmitt 0 0 N A Shaun Wills 0 1,254 N A The following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts are unaudited.
Relative importance of the spend on pay unaudited The following table sets out the percentage change in distributions to shareholders and employee remuneration costs.
2015 2014 m m Change Employee remuneration costs m 66.9 60.1 11.3% Dividends m nil nil nil www.
co. uk 81 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer unaudited The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and previous financial year compared to the average of all employees of the Group.
Element of remuneration % change Salary Chief Executive Officer nil Employees 2.9% Taxable benefits Chief Executive Officer nil Employees nil Annual bonus Chief Executive Officer n a Employees n a Julian Dunkerton, previously CEO, chose to waive his bonus award in FY14.
Euan Sutherland received a bonus award of 50% of salary pro rated from joining for FY15.
Bonus payments are only made to a small group of senior leaders and Wholesale sales roles.
Performance graph unaudited The graph below shows the total cumulative shareholder return TSR for the Group compared with the TSR of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts over the period from the initial public offer to 25 April 2015.
The FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts was selected as this is the index of which the Group was a constituent for the period shown.
The table on the following page sets out the Chief Executive Officer single figure over the past six years.
co. uk 82 Share price p SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Strategic Strategic Report.
Single figure table unaudited Long-term Financial Financial Total Annual bonus incentives Statements.
Year ending Chief Executive remuneration % of max % of max 1 4 2015 Euan Sutherland 604,174 33.3% 2 2015 Julian Dunkerton 419,180 2014 Julian Dunkerton 419,412 2013 Julian Dunkerton 419,406 2012 Julian Dunkerton 419,463 2011 Julian Dunkerton 418,745 3 2010 Julian Dunkerton 59,884 1 Euan Sutherland was appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer on 22 October 2014.
2 Julian Dunkerton, previously Chief Executive Officer, switched to the newly created role of Founder and Product and Brand Director on 24 October 2015.
3 For six week period to 2 May 2010.
4 Annual bonus is the proportion awarded of the maximum bonus opportunity.
Membership and attendance During the year ended 25 April 2015, the Remuneration Committee consisted of the following non-executive directors: Keith Edelman Euan Sutherland until October 2014 Minnow Powell Ken McCall Executive directors attend Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation of the Committee, except where their own remuneration is being discussed.
Euan Sutherland Chief Executive Officer, Julian Dunkerton former Chief Executive Officer, Shaun Wills former Chief Financial Officer, Lindsay Beardsell Group General Counsel and Andrea Cartwright Director of HR attended Remuneration Committee meetings during the year under review and provided advice to assist the Committee.
Adviser to the Committee During 2015 the Remuneration Committee received advice from New Bridge Street NBS a trading name of AON plc on senior executive remuneration and employee share schemes.
Neither NBS nor AON plc provided other services to us during the year.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its code of conduct.
The Remuneration Committee is comfortable that NBSs advice remains objective and independent.
For the year under review NBSs total fees charged were 41,684. www.
co. uk 83 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Report.
Dilution In accordance with shareholder guidelines, the Remuneration Committee applies a limit on the amount of shares which can be issued to satisfy employee share plan awards of 10% of our issued share capital in any rolling ten year period.
Of this 10%, only half can be issued to satisfy awards under the discretionary arrangements i. e. the PSP.
Statement of shareholder voting At last years AGM the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: For Against Votes cast Votes withheld Directors Remuneration Policy Total number of votes 64,892,908 4,338,110 69,231,018 535,940 % of votes cast 93.73 6.27 85.51 Directors Remuneration excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy Total number of votes 55,286,569 5,134,704 60,421,273 9,345,685 % of votes cast 91.50 8.50 74.63 Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
