Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information three continents.
Brendan has previous attorney and then spending 12 years in a series aprivate investment company, and a experience as chairman of the remuneration of legal and operational roles at General Motors non-executive director of several early stage committee of a UK listed company and is and Delphi Corporation in China, Jinya joined companies that have been backed by CairnSea.
currently chairman of two private equity Alcoa Inc in 2007 where he is now a corporate Prior to the establishment of CairnSea he was backed companies.
He is also a board adirector of Morgan Grenfell & Co and then member of China Zhong Nan University.
Lazard Brothers & Co Ltd. His current other 1,3 6 directorships include Neptune Investment Dr J J C Jansz 59 1,2, 3 8 Management Limited.
Alex is a grandson of the Non-Executive Director C A Johnstone 55 first Lord Catto, the founder of the company Joined the Board in April 2012 and is Chair of the Audit Committee thatbecame Yule Catto & Co plc and has considered to be an independent NonJoined the Board in March 2015 and is subsequently been renamed Synthomer plc.
Until July 2010, Just considered to be an independent Nonwaspresident, technology business, and executive Director.
Caroline was a partner amember of the management team of  until 2009 R Atkinson 53 LyondellBasell.
He is founder and managing havingworked extensively with large global Company Secretary director of Expertise Beyond Borders BV, organisations on turnaround strategy, Joined in 1998 as Company Secretary and anindependent business and technology mergersand acquisitions and cost reduction isalso the Groups Chief Counsel.
She is currently deputy chair, qualified as a solicitor in 1988. asindependent non-executive director at non-executive director and chair of the audit Genomatica US.
He is a senior advisor committee of Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust, atNatrium Capital UK and Siluria provides consulting services to a range of global Technologies US.
chemical organisations and is a member of the governing council of the University of Leeds.
7 J Chen 63 9 Non-Executive Director The Hon.
A G Catto 63 1 Member of Audit Committee Joined the Board in October 2012 and is Non-Executive Director 2 Member of Nomination Committee considered to be an independent NonJoined the Board in 1981.
Alex is managing 3 Member of Remuneration Committee executive Director.
After practicing as a US director of CairnSea Investments Limited, 7 10 9 8 6 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 43 Corporate Governance Letter from the Chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the report on the corporate governance work undertaken by your Board and its Committees in 2015.
As noted in my statement at the front of this Annual Report, your Board iscommitted to a focused and proportionate governance framework which underpins and is an integral part of the way we operate and grow the Group.
We started 2015 and continued throughout the year in full compliance with the September 2014 revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the year we were pleased to expand the experience and diversity of your Board with the appointment of Caroline Johnstone as an independent nonexecutive director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
Following the externally facilitated Board and Committee evaluation process carried out in 2014, Ihave overseen the implementation of improvements in boardroom dynamics and culture, the effectiveness of which has been confirmed by the internal evaluation carried out for 2015.
The work of the Nomination Committee, which I also chair, in successfully completing the recruitment required to fill Neil Johnson the vacancies arising during the year from Chairman the retirement from the Board of David Blackwood as Chief Financial Officer and Jez Maiden as our Senior Independent director and Chairman of the Audit Our commitment to a focused and Committee, has been reported on in my Chairmans statement.
The Nomination proportionate governance framework Committee has also overseen the significant strengthening of the Groups underpins the way the Board operates succession planning processes in recognition of their vital role in and is integral to the success of contributing to the long-term success ofthe Company.
Our full compliance report for 2015 whichsets out in detail our corporate governance arrangements and how they operated during the year is set out on the following pages.
Neil Johnson Chairman 1 March 2016 44 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Statement of compliance During 2015 the Board held six scheduled Board membership and balance The Company considers that it has meetings to review current and projected The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer complied throughout the financial year performance and to determine strategic and Senior Independent Director together ended 31 December 2015 with the issues with a half day dedicated to an with Chairmen and members of the Audit, provisions set out in the September annual strategy development review.
Nomination and Remuneration Committees 2014UK Corporate Governance Code Thedirectors receive in advance full are identified on page 42 to 43.
information on all matters to be discussed Board considers Mrs C A Johnstone, at Board meetings as well as a detailed DrJJ C Jansz, MrJChen and Application of the Code review of performance prepared by the Mr B W D Connolly are independent The main principles of the Code were Chief Executive Officer.
The Board has inaccordance with the provisions of applied as follows: established Audit, Nomination and theCode.
Remuneration Committees which are Leadership and effectiveness discussed on page 46.
The Board held a total of six meetings Operation of the Board in2015.
In addition the non-executive The activities of the Company are In addition, arrangements are made each directors also met once without the controlled by the Board which, during year for the Board to visit up to two of the Chairman to appraise his performance.
2015, comprised two executive directors Groups operational sites and meet local and seven non-executive directors.
Ad hoc site visits are The table on page 46 shows the number roles of Chairman and Chief Executive facilitated for individual non-executive of meetings of the Board, Audit, Officer are clearly divided between directors on request.
During 2015, the Remuneration and Nomination Committees MrNA Johnson who heads the Board Board held a meeting in Worms, Germany held during the year and the number inhis capacity as non-executive at the offices of its business.
In conjunction ofmeetings attended by each director.
Chairman and Mr C G MacLean who with that Board meeting, presentations Where a director is unable to attend a hasresponsibility for the running of the were given by local senior management Board or Committee meeting his views on Companys business as Chief Executive and the directors were given the agenda items are canvassed in advance Officer.
The non-executive directors all opportunity to visit the Groups plant.
of the meeting and incorporated into have wide business and boardroom thediscussions.
experience gained in a broad range The Board has delegated to the Chief ofbusiness sectors.
Executive Officer responsibility for the Induction and training development and preparation of the Induction arrangements are in place The Board has reserved to itself a business plan for the Group and the inorder to ensure new directors receive schedule of matters which includes annual Group budget for recommendation afull formal and tailored induction on setting long-term objectives for the to the Board.
As the senior executive appointment.
The Chairman reviews and Groupand the strategies to be employed director, the Chief Executive Officer is agrees the training and development in achieving them, setting policies in the responsible for all aspects of day-to-day needs of the directors and the skills and areas of safety, health and the environment, operational control of the Group and knowledge of the Board as a whole are recruitment and employment, risk execution of the Group strategy.
The updated by briefings provided by the management and treasury and, subject Chief Executive Officer has established Companys internal resources and tomateriality thresholds, decisions on the and chairs an Executive Committee materials and seminars offered by raising of capital, financial commitments, whose other members are the Chief external advisers.
capital expenditure, acquisitions and Financial Officer, the Chief Counsel and disposals and the prosecution, defence Company Secretary, and the operational and settlement of litigation.
vice presidents for the Group to assist him in the performance of his duties andwhich meets once a month.
The Chairman has available to him the minutes of the Executive Committee and all directors receive a monthly trading summary and commentary from the ChiefFinancial Officer.
2 014 UK Corporate Governance Code https: www.
pdf Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 45 Corporate Governance continued Performance evaluation Board committees presentations and meetings that he fully Performance evaluations of the Board, its The Board has formally established understands the issues and concerns committees and its directors were carried Nomination, Audit, and Remuneration ofmajor shareholders.
Alternatively, the out in the last year by the following internal Committees, each with their own terms Chairman is also available for meetings and external processes: ofreference which set out their respective with major shareholders at their request.
roles and the authority delegated to them an assessment of the performance by the Board.
Copies of the terms of The Chief Executive Officer reports ofindividual non-executive directors reference are available upon request from onshareholder relations at each iscarried out by the Chairman through the Company Secretary and can also be Boardmeeting.
Communications with a rolling programme of one-to-one downloaded from the Companys website.
shareholders relating to corporate discussions using performance All non-executive directors have a standing governance matters are conducted by evaluation questions as the centrepiece invitation to attend Committee meetings theChairman with the assistance of the for those discussions.
Every nonunless they are notified otherwise.
Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration executive director is assessed in this Committees.
Written reports on all way once a year: The Board Committee reports are set meetings between non-executive the performance of the executive outat the end of this Corporate directors and institutional shareholders directors was reviewed against their Governance report.
and their representative bodies are personal objectives for 2015: presented to the Board at the first a meeting of the non-executive Relations with shareholders opportunity following such meetings directors in the absence of the Dialogue with institutional investors is asisall correspondence with them.
Chairman chaired by the Senior conducted on a regular basis by the Chief Independent Director was held to Executive Officer and the Chief Financial The Senior Independent Director is evaluate the performance of the Officer and meetings take place following available to shareholders if they have Chairman, taking into account the the announcement of interim and full concerns which contact through the views of the executive directors: and yearresults and at other times according normal channels of the Chairman or the the effectiveness of the Board and to circumstances.
Chief Executive Officer has failed to resolve itsCommittees Audit, Nomination, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Remuneration was evaluated by way The Board has adopted a set of shareholder ofan internal self-assessment process.
communication principles in order to The Board seeks to encourage ensure that Board members develop an participation of all shareholders, and Non-executive directors are appointed understanding of the views of the Groups inparticular private investors, at the forone-year terms.
All directors submit major shareholders.
These principles Companys Annual General Meeting themselves for annual election at each require the Chairman to be present with andendeavours to ensure all Board Annual General Meeting.
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief members are in attendance.
In particular, Financial Officer at sufficient shareholder the Chairs of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are available Committees to answer questions.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The Company makes use of its Number of 6 4 2 1 websitewww.
com to meetings held communicate with its shareholders Number of meetings attended andalso publishes interim and full year results, Company announcements, S G Bennett 3 3 N A N A N A shareprice and corporate governance D C Blackwood 3 3 N A N A N A andother investor information there.
A G Catto 6 6 N A N A N A J Chen 6 6 N A N A N A B W D Connolly 6 6 4 4 2 2 2 2 J J C Jansz 6 6 4 4 2 2 N A N A Johnson 6 6 N A N A 2 2 C A Johnstone 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 Lee Hau Hian 6 6 N A N A N A C G MacLean 5 5 N A N A N A J Maiden 2 3 2 2 1 1 0 1 A M Whitfield 1 1 N A N A N A 46 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Accountability An ongoing process for identifying, Risks associated with safety, health and An explanation of the directors evaluating and managing significant the environment are, by the nature of the responsibility for preparing the financial business risks faced by the Group has Groups business, always of the utmost statements, their report that the business been in place since 2000.
This has since concern and the Resources and is a going concern, a viability statement, been built upon so as to embed further Relationships report on pages 20 to 27 a responsibility statement and their the process into the businesses and to reviews the Groups performance in this statement as to disclosure of information enhance the usefulness of the relevant connection in 2015. to the auditor are set out on pages 68 to processes and information, and has 69 and 70 respectively.
Statements by the beenoperated throughout 2015 and up The processes which are used by the auditor about its reporting responsibilities to the date of approval of the Annual Board either directly or, where appropriate, are set out on pages 71 to 75 and 116 to Report and accounts, and accords with through the Audit Committee to review 117 respectively.
the Financial Reporting Council Guidance the effectiveness of the internal control on internal control.
and risk management systems including A report on the approach to internal in relation to the financial reporting control is set out below.
The Directors The system is applied across the Group process and the process for preparing endeavour to make the Annual Report on a functional and regional basis and consolidated accounts include and financial statements as informative abottom up risk profile is created thefollowing: and understandable as possible.
byevaluating the information at an operational and Group level.
Individual a review of the external audit work plan: Risk management and senior managers within Synthomers consideration of reports from internalcontrol businesses identify and assess key risks management and external parties, The Board of Directors has ultimate associated within their area of responsibility including the internal and external responsibility for the Groups system based on formal management information auditor, on the system of internal ofinternal control and sets appropriate and interaction with colleagues, financial control and any material policies to ensure that the Code customers, suppliers and other parties.
control weaknesses: requirements on internal control are a quarterly review of safety, health and met.
The system of internal control The individual submissions are environmental performance: deployed within the Group is designed consolidated, reviewed and agreed by discussion with management of the toreduce the risks of failure to meet theExecutive Committee.
A business risk actions taken on any possible problem business objectives, but these risks report is prepared that is closely linked to areas for the business identified by cannot be eliminated.
The internal business strategy and takes account of Board members or in the audit report: controlsystem adopted can therefore key internal and external factors.
Risks consideration of a consolidated risk only provide reasonable, not absolute, are prioritised using a common risk management report setting out the assurance about meeting such business matrix, which forms the basis of a single main conclusions from the internal objectives or against material mis-statement corporate risk report that is reviewed and control process: and a biannual report or loss.
discussed by the Audit Committee.
from the internal audit function.
The Groups internal controls over the The individual business risk reports are In addition, the Board: financial reporting and consolidation formally reviewed every six months, out of processes are designed under the which a revised report is submitted which receives copies of the minutes from supervision of the Chief Financial Officer identifies changes in the risk environment.
allAudit Committee meetings: to provide reasonable assurance considers the role of the Group regarding the reliability of financial The process was last reviewed by the insurance programme: reporting and the preparation and fair Synthomer Board of Directors in February receives regular written and oral reports presentation of the Groups published 2016.
The nature of the risks identified from management on all aspects of financial statements for external reporting asa result of this process during the production, operations, financial and purposes in accordance with IFRS.
yearprimarily relate to matters of an risk management matters: and operational and financial nature and the in compliance with Provision C. 2.1 most significant of those which faced ofthe Combined Code, the Board theGroup in 2015 are reviewed in the regularly reviews and approves the Strategic report.
effectiveness of the Groups system ofinternal controls.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 47 Corporate Governance continued The Board confirms that a review of the The Board is also aware of the effectiveness of the Companys risk reputational and legal risks associated management and internal control systems with social and ethical issues and has a was carried out in 2015.
Group-wide code of business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive activities, Environmental matters which is available on the Companys The maintenance of high standards website and upon request from the ofenvironmental together with health Company Secretary.
The purpose of this andsafety protection is central to the code is to ensure that the Groups Companys business.
A separate statement employees have a clear understanding of on safety, health and environmental SHE the principles that are important in these matters has been a feature of the Annual areas when conducting the Groups Report for a number of years.
The application of the code is Resources and Relationships report on explained to senior management at pages 20 to 27 includes a report on the regular intervals and they are charged initiatives the Company has adopted with its communication throughout their regarding sustainable development.
businesses supported by internal and external training.
A compliance procedure Social, community and human involving annual certification by senior rightsmatters management and a procedure for The Board takes account of social and maintaining a register of, and where ethical matters as part of its review of appropriate gaining prior approval for, internal control which, by virtue of its gifts, entertainment and corporate approach to risk identification, covers hospitality operates throughout the areas which encompass social and Group.
A report is made to the Audit ethical matters.
Committee annually on the code and the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities in which the Groups The Groups operating activities are highly businesses operate and encourages local regulated in all territories and largely carried engagement by management which out in countries that have established includes supporting environmental, health legislation on human rights issues.
As such, and education initiatives.
information on human rights issues is not considered to be necessary for an understanding of the development, performance or position ofthe Groups business.
The Group has nonetheless adopted a policy on equal opportunities, diversity and human rights which is available at www.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
48 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Audit Committee Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information The Committee fulfilled its primary The role of the Audit Committee responsibilities during the year and in In 2015 the Audit Committee was addition we have reviewed and agreed chaired by Mr J K Maiden until 30 April policies and procedures on external audit when Mrs C A Johnstone was appointed rotation and tendering: overseen the in his place and throughout 2015 evaluation of the effectiveness of the comprised three independent noninternal and external audit processes: and executive directors.
Mrs Johnstone is overseen a review of our approach to considered by the Board to have recent hedging of foreign exchange exposures.
and relevant financial experience for Detailed reports were also received from the purposes of Provision C. 3.1 of the the Chief Financial Officer and senior Code as a chartered accountant and members of his department on the IT due to her previous position as a control environment and IT systems security.
The Committee has supported and The Committee has established a advised the Board in relation to the detailed remit regarding the application processes and procedures required for of financial reporting and internal control Audit Committee membership the changes introduced by the 2014 UK principles, which covers: since 1 January 2015 Corporate Governance Code concerning a longer term viability statement and risk monitoring the integrity of the financial assessment and disclosure.
In addition statements of the Group and any Caroline Johnstone Chair since the Committee has ensured that the formal announcements relating to 30 April 2015 provisions of the Competition and Market theGroups financial performance, Just Jansz Authority Audit Order relating to competitive particularly with regard to the interim Brendan Connolly tender processes and audit committee and full year results, and reviewing Jez Maiden Chairman until responsibilities were complied with significant financial reporting 30 April 2015 throughout 2015.
The current auditor was judgements contained in them: appointed following a competitive tender reviewing the Groups internal financial process held in 2012 and the Committee controls and the Groups internal Dear Shareholder intends to carry out a competitive control and risk management systems: I am pleased to present my first report re-tendering process during 2016. monitoring and reviewing the asChair of the Audit Committee.
I was effectiveness of the Groups internal appointed on 30 April 2015 at which date As noted last year, the Financial audit function: Jez Maiden stood down from the Board Reporting Council conducted a periodic making recommendations to the and his role as Chair of the Committee.
routine review of the 2013 reported Board regarding the selection and Iwould like to thank Jez for his support accounts and this was brought to a appointment of the external auditor and for overseeing a solid base from which satisfactory conclusion in June 2015. and approving their remuneration to continue the work of the Committee.
andterms of engagement: During 2016, your Committee will be paying reviewing and monitoring the external The Committee welcomed Stephen particular attention to cyber security and auditors independence and Bennett to Synthomer in May as Chief the Companys risk management review objectivity and the effectiveness of Financial Officer and we monitored the processes as well as refreshing our the audit process: effective handover to him from the trainingprogramme.
developing and implementing policy outgoing Chief Financial Officer, David on the engagement of the external Blackwood.
Thanks also to David for his Caroline Johnstone auditor to supply non-audit services: support during this process.
Steve and Audit Committee Chair advising the Board, in connection Ihave worked together to review and 1 March 2016 with its obligation under Section C. 1.1 refresh the work of finance and audit in of the Code, on whether the Annual Synthomer as well as the overview role Report and accounts, taken as ofthe Committee.
awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance of the Group, along with its business model and strategy: ensuring that the external audit services contract is put out to tender at least once every ten years: and Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 49 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee continued reporting on the significant issues Reviewed the Groups whistleblowing appraisal, valuation and actuarial thatit considered in relation to the arrangements and anti-bribery and services: financial statements and how these corruption procedures: tax services which require interpretation were addressed.
Reviewed the Groups risk register: of tax law or reliance on accounting Reviewed the IT control environment treatments: The Chief Financial Officer and senior and IT systems security: legal services unrelated to the audit.
members of his department attend Monitored the effectiveness of internal meetings of the Committee as part of the controls and risk management: A full copy of the policy on the provision review of the Groups interim and annual Reviewed the Groups internal audit of non-audit services by the external auditor financial statements prior to their plan: and is available on the Company website.
submission to the Board and as part of Received reviews undertaken by the the internal audit process.
The Committee senior internal auditor.
Reviewed In addition the auditor has been requested meets periodically with the Companys reports relating to the implementation not to provide services to executive auditor without management present to of recommendations from KPMG, the directors or senior executives except discuss the adequacy of the Groups co-sourced internal auditor to enable where approved by the Audit Committee.
financial management, internal controls the Committee to assess the Non-executive directors are required to and information systems and to review improvements in the Groups controls disclose any relationship they have with the terms of the auditors engagement, and reporting and where further actions the auditor.
Prior to appointment in July effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
2012  LLP were providing and continued to provide during Activities during the year In addition the Chair of the Committee had 2015 expatriate tax services to the Groups The Committee met formally four times regular dialogue with the external auditor, senior managers who are required to during 2015 and carried out the following Chief Financial Officer and other senior work outside their home country.
The main activities in addition to the items members of the head office finance team Committee does not consider that the mentioned in the Chairmans overview: and met with local finance and operations provision of these services creates any teams during site visits during the course conflict of interest as they are of a minor Reviewed the financial statements in of the year.
nature and are provided by individuals the 2014 Annual Report and the 2015 and teams who are not involved in the interim statement in conjunction with Auditor objectivity and independence audit, and accordingly have approved papers prepared by the Chief Financial With regard to seeking to ensure the theircontinuation.
Officer regarding accounting policies independence and objectivity of the and basis of preparation and a number auditor, the Audit Committees policy Details of audit and non-audit fees of disclosure considerations: istoensure that the auditors integrity paidtothe auditor in 2015 are set out in Advised the Board in connection with isnot compromised by restricting their note6 to the Group financial statements.
its obligation under Section C. 1.1 of involvement in the provision of non-audit Non-audit fees principally relate to theCode: services where a conflict of interest, real financial, IT and pensions due diligence Reviewed the scope and effectiveness or perceived, may exist.
The policy splits inconnection with a potential acquisition, of the external audit: the approval of non-audit work into tax compliance and other taxadvisory Reviewed and concluded the Financial threecategories: services and relate to services Reporting Councils FRC periodic whichwere approved within the routine review of the 2013 report services which are prohibited: termsofthe Committees policy.
andaccounts: services which are pre-approved  were awarded Received reports from the external subject to limits: and the acquisition-related due diligence work auditor on the major findings of its work: services which require specific following a competitive tender process.
Approved the annual external audit plan approval on a case-by-case basis.
and the basis on which the auditor Assessment of effectiveness of the assesses materiality: Prohibited services include: external audit Reviewed the provision of non-audit During the year, the Committee evaluated services by the external auditor: maintaining or preparing accounting the performance, independence and Approved new policies on external records and financial statements: effectiveness of the external auditors.
audit rotation and tendering and the the design and implementation of Aspart of this process, feedback was evaluation of the effectiveness of the financial information systems or obtained from head office and operating internal and external audit processes: financial controls: company staff involved with the external Reviewed the remit and effectiveness secondments to the Group: audit and from the Committees meetings of the Committee: recruitment and remuneration related with the external auditors.
A review services for key management positions: ofperformance against an evaluation 50 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information checklist was also conducted by the growth rate assumptions and discount Audit Committee Chair and the Chief rates used and compared the Financial Officer.
The Committee assumptions with related external assessed the robustness of the audit, market data.
The Committee reviewed thequality of delivery of the audit against the assessments by management and the agreed plan and the competence with the external auditors and considered which the auditors handled key the related disclosure.
Considering all of these factors the Provisions for uncertain Committee concluded that the external taxationpositions: auditors were effective.
Significant judgement is exercised bymanagement, with advice from Re-appointment of the auditor appropriate tax advisers, to arrive at the As a result of an external amounts provided for tax as the final audittenderprocess in 2012, tax outcome of several transactions is  LLP was uncertain and may not be known for appointed in July that year.
As part of their audit, assessment of the effectiveness of the theexternal auditor reviewed the external audit referred to above, the judgements that had been made, Committee is pleased torecommend the usingtax specialists as appropriate, re-appointment of  and provided the Committee with an LLP at the 2016Annual General Meeting.
As assessment of the appropriateness noted above, however, a competitive tender ofmanagement judgements.
The process, the outcome of which will take Committee reviewed the provisions effect for the 2016 audit, will be carried andjudgements taken by management outduring the first half of 2016. and also the auditors conclusions.
Financial reporting and Defined benefit pension  accounting: As part of their monitoring of the integrity The Group operates a number of of the financial statements, the Committee defined benefit schemes which have reviews whether suitable accounting significant liabilities as outlined in note policies have been adopted, and whether 24 to the Group financial statements.
management has made appropriate Although the UK schemes are closed estimates and judgements and also to future accrual, they are sensitive seeks support from the external auditors tochanges in actuarial assumptions.
During their audit, the external auditor evaluated the assumptions and The main issues reviewed in the year ended methodologies used by the Groups 31 December 2015 are set out below: actuarial advisers and management and assessed whether the assumptions Impairment of goodwill and made were appropriate and not materially intangibles: different from external benchmarks.
The Group holds 273.3 million of The external auditors reported to goodwill and acquired intangible assets usthat they were satisfied with the as set out in notes 13 and 14.
Annually, assumptions used and with the management performs impairment waythat the schemes had been assessments on these balances to accounted for.
ensure there is no evidence of impairment.
The review is done using managements specialised knowledge ofthe underlying businesses and the markets in which they operate.
As part of their audit the external auditor reviewed the impairment assessment calculation for reasonableness of the Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 51 Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee The Committee led the processes fornominating Stephen Bennett and Caroline Johnstone for appointment asChief Financial Officer and as a non-executive director and chair ofthe Audit Committee respectively.
These processes involved a thorough review ofarange of candidates put forward by an independent recruitment consultancy, Russell Reynolds Associates, with which the Company has no other connection, which conducted extensive search processes.
The diversity including gender of the Board was taken into account by the Committee when makingthese nominations.
Nomination Committee membership The Committee also reviewed senior since 1 January 2015 management succession planning within the Group during the course ofthe year.
Neil Johnson Chairman The Nomination Committee held Brendan Connolly oneformal meeting during 2015 and Caroline Johnstone from 30 April 2015 anumber of informal meetings and Jez Maiden until 30 April 2015 telephone calls as well as several interviews in connection with the nomination processes referred to above.
The Committee is responsible for: the regular review of the structure, size and The Board adopted a policy on diversity composition of the Board and the making in March 2013.
This policy seeks to of recommendations with regard to any ensure that diversity in its broadest sense changes: leading the process for Board is taken into account in the process of appointments and nominating candidates making appointments on merit against for non-executive positions: and objective selection criteria.
A copy of the diversity policy is available at www.
Further details on the Companys approach todiversity are contained within the Strategic report.
Neil Johnson Chairman 1 March 2016 52 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Directors Remuneration Report Governance Remuneration Committee Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information setting the remuneration terms for Executive team completed and acurrent Stephen Bennett who joined as Chief and ongoing focus on M&A evident.
Both Financial Officer in May 2015: Executives therefore received a full pay reviewing the Company-wide bonus out against these measurable non-financial plan, and aligning it within the Group objectives.
In summary, it has been a and to the Group Strategy: very successful year and this sets a high reviewing the performance of the bar for 2016 for this new Executive team.
Executive Directors and the Chairman the 2013 PSP will pay out 28.8% based agreeing the participants for, and setting on partially achieving the Total the targets for both the annual bonus Shareholder Return TSR target.
The plan and the Performance Share Plan Earnings Per Share EPS three year PSP : and growth target, which was a multiplier on reviewing the Terms of Reference and the 2012 EPS result, was not achieved the Committees own performance despite the growth in 2015.
During our Committee meetings we Linkage to strategy discussed a number of topics, including: Linking performance to strategy is an thePSP structure and targets: participants important part of any Remuneration Remuneration Committee inthe PSP: the implementation of the Committees role, and again this year we membership Groupbonus plan and the targets thereof: have sought to ensure such alignment.
since 1 January 2015 alignment of targets to the Group strategy: The bonus plan focuses on in year shareholding requirements for the profitability as a stepping stone to longer executives: shorter notice periods: term growth.
Safety and health and Brendan Connolly Chairman potential service contract changes: malus focused strategic goals make up the rest Just Jansz & clawback: market positioning of salaries of the bonus plan.
The strategic targets Jez Maiden until 30 April 2015 and total remuneration: simplification of look at growth engines for the Group the remuneration structure: motivation which reflect our geographic positioning.
Caroline Johnstone since 30 April 2015 andretention of the executives: and other All of these targets are an integral part of administrative matters.
I believe that there the strategy to drive growth within a safe Dear Shareholder was sufficient debate and relevant input working environment.
The PSP focuses on I am pleased to present the Company from our independent adviser on the growth through innovation and acquisitions, Directors Remuneration report for the different topics to ensure that our as well as delivering a growing EPS and financial year ended 31 December 2015, governance obligations were met and out performing TSR against our peers and take this opportunity to thank the thatissues were discussed in full.
We believe that the strategy Committee and Board members for their and these goals also deliver value to our valuable input and debate.
The highlights from 2015 were: shareholders.
Our Policy Remuneration Report base salaries have been increased Our current Remuneration Policy, in force The Directors Remuneration report will by2%in line with the UK Group since 1 May 2014, will remain in place until employee population.
not require a binding vote for the policy at next year as the Committee considers the 2016 Annual General Meeting: however under the annual bonus plan the thatthe policy remains relevant and fit for outcome for 2015 was well above the Annual Report on Remuneration will purpose for 2016.
We will review the policy be subject to an advisory vote.
We hope expectations and budget, primarily due in its entirety during 2016, taking into that we will have the support of our to successful growth in Asia, with Europe account current guidance, trends and best relatively stable as predicted.
This meant shareholders for the Annual Report practice from a number of sources, and onRemuneration.
that despite increasing the annual bonus putthe policy to a shareholder vote at the target at the start of the year by an AGM in 2017 in accordance with legislative additional 2 million of PBT over and Finally, we believe the remuneration of requirements.
In my statement last year, above the budgeted target, this target theexecutive directors to be balanced, wehighlighted that work had already begun was met and exceeded, giving rise to full appropriate and broadly in-line with best on the policy review, and we re-confirm that payout for the financial portion of the practice, and importantly, motivational we will be incorporating an additional two annual bonus.
The SHE goals were set to forthe executives and aligned with year holding period for vested awards deliver an improvement on the previous shareholders interests without driving under the Performance Share Plan year in all three categories of personal inappropriate risk taking.
We continue following the three year performance period safety, process safety and behavioural tomonitor current best practice and from 2017 onwards.
Two out of the three goals were guidelines and remain open to review the policy principles and a table summarising met and exceeded, with the third falling output of various consultations and discuss the main elements of the current policy just short, and as such two-thirds of the ideas and opinions of our shareholders have been produced on pages 54 to 58. bonuses linked to SHE were paid out.
as we review our policy in 2016.
Lastly the personal objectives were Activities and outcomes in 2015 broadly met as one would expect in such Brendan Connolly During 2015 the Committee worked asuccessful year, with a detailed strategy Chairman closely with the Board in: now embedded, a restructuring ofthe 1 March 2016 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 53 Directors Remuneration Report continued In setting executive directors remuneration, The following diagram provides an Directors Remuneration the Committee takes account of pay and overview of the key elements of reward Policy principles conditions throughout the Company.
for executive directors and the performance The key principles for executive directors TheCommittee also considers corporate measures used.
remuneration at Synthomer are as follows: governance requirements and best practice in terms of remuneration Directors Remuneration Sufficient to attract and retain executive structures and the process of setting PolicySummary directors of the ability and expertise executive remuneration.
Set out in the table below is a summary necessary to achieve the strategic of our Directors Remuneration Policy goals of the Company.
The Committee reviews performance thePolicy as it applies to executive Incentivise executive directors by targets regularly to ensure that they do directors.
The Policy was put forward rewarding performance and driving not encourage or motivate inappropriate for, and received shareholder approval, at theright behaviours.
Furthermore, the Committee, the Companys 2014 AGM in accordance Align executive director reward with the when necessary, will take into account with section 439A of the Companies experience of shareholders.
The Policy has been effective governance ESG events and the Audit from 1May 2014 and is available in full at Committees risk assessment when www.
Element Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salary levels are generally reviewed annually by There is no overall maximum for salary opportunity or None, although individual and Company performance are Purpose and link to strategy theCommittee.
Salary increases will normally be in-line with the factors taken into account when considering salary increases.
Supports the recruitment and retention of executive directors.
increases awarded toother employees within the Group.
When reviewing salary levels the Committee takes Reflects the individuals skills, experience, performance and intoaccount: Larger increases may be made under certain circumstances, role within the Company.
including, but not limited to: the individuals skills, experience andperformance: the size and scope of the individuals responsibilities: an increase in the scope and or responsibility of the pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group: individualsrole: pay at companies of similar size: and the development of the individual within the role: the complexity and international scope of the Group.
alignment to market levels: and corporate events such as a significant acquisition or Group For 2016, executive director salaries are: restructuring which impacts the scope of the role.
Chief Executive Officer: 535,500 Chief Financial Officer: 334,560 Benefits Benefits to executive directors may include private health There is no overall maximum for benefits.
Thecost of None Purpose and link to strategy insurance, life insurance and afully expensed car.
From time insurance benefits may vary fromyear-to-year depending Provided to support the retention and recruitment of totime the Committee may review the benefits provided.
Remuneration Committee may remove benefits that executive The level of any relocation benefits, allowancesand expenses directors receive or introduce other benefits if it considers it will depend onthespecific circumstances.
Any other benefits will be proportionate with the current benefits provided.
Where executive directors are required torelocate or complete an international assignment, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional benefits or vary benefits according to localpractice.
Pension Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Group Maximum of 25% of base salary.
None Purpose and link to strategy personal pension plan.
Executive directors may receive Provides a competitive level of retirement benefits to support payments as a cash allowance which they may use either in both retention and recruitment of executive directors.
conjunction with that plan and or to enable them to make their own arrangements.
54 Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Base salary Annual bonus Performance share plan Pension and benefits At least 70% At least 40% Profit before tax Relative TSR Up to 30% At least 40% Strategic and operational objectives EPS growth Up to 20% Strategic measures Element Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salary levels are generally reviewed annually by There is no overall maximum for salary opportunity or None, although individual and Company performance are Purpose and link to strategy theCommittee.
Synthomer plc Annual Report 2015 55 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus Performance targets will be determined by the Committee at 100% of salary.
At least 70% of awards are subject to underlying profit before Purpose and link to strategy the beginning of the annual performance period.
tax orother relevant financial measure targets.
Incentivises the delivery of financial, strategic and operational The Committee will assess performance against these targets objectives selected to support our business strategywithin Up to 30% of awards are subject to strategic and operational following the end of the performance period.
The Committee may adjust awards upward or downward to reflect the overall performance of the Company orthe individual.
The award for threshold performance isnormally 20% of maximum.
The Committee may reduce or defer the level of payment of an award totakeinto account exceptional business circumstances.
The Committee may claw back awards up tothree years after payment if the Groups accounts have been materially misstated orthere has been an error inthe calculation of any performance conditions which results in over payment.
2011 Performance Share Plan Awards of shares or nil-cost options are made annually with Under the plan rules approved by shareholders, the value At least 40% based on relative TSR performance.
Approved by shareholders at the 2011 EGM vesting conditional on the Companys performance against ofshares awarded to an individual in any one year may not At least 40% based on EPS growth targets.
long-term targets over a three year performance period.
Up to 20% based on performance measures linked to the Purpose and link to strategy deliveryof the business strategy.
Incentivises executive directors to deliver sustained The Committee may reduce or defer the level of vesting of an Annual awards to executive directors are: No single measure will constitute more than 50% of an performance and sustainable returns for shareholders awardwhere an event has occurred, such as a material health Chief Executive Officer: 125% of salary annualaward.
orsafety incident Chief Financial Officer: 100% of salary A maximum of 25% of each element will vest for threshold Awards may give rise to dividend equivalents.
Under the plan rules approved by shareholders there is the performance.
The Committee may claw back awards up to three years after ability tomake additional awards in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee may amend the final vesting level under the vesting if the Groups accounts have been materially misstated Additional awards may be made in the case of a transformative TSR element if it does not consider it to be reflective of the or there has been an error in the calculation of any Company event.
Any such awards would be subject to additional underlying performance of the Group.
performance conditions which results in overpayment.
shareholding guidelines or holding periods to be determined Any additional awards made in exceptional circumstances will All vested awards net of tax if applicable must be retained by by theCommittee.
be subject to performance conditions and vesting schedules executive directors until share ownership guidelines are met.
Any additional award would be subject to the overall plan limit as determined by the Committee at the time of award.
Shareholding guidelines The Company operates shareholding guidelines for executive directors.
The current guidelines are detailed in the annual report on Remuneration page 58.
