29 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors report on remuneration for FY15 in TalkTalk Telecom Groups fifth year as a publicly listed company.
Introduction Board changes during FY15 In line with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Board resignations Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Joanna Shields stepped down from the Board in her role theRegulations, the Remuneration Report for the year ended ofNon-Executive Director, effective from 22 July 2014.
31March 2015 is split into two sections: Steve Makin stepped down from the Board in his role of ChiefFinancial The Remuneration Policy, which sets out the Companys policy Officer effective 13 November 2014 andlefttheCompany on onremuneration for Executive Directors.
The policy was accepted 31December 2014. by shareholders by a binding vote at the 2014 AGM and is now Board appointments effective for three years from this date.
There have been no Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh were appointed to the Board as amendments tothe Remuneration Policy in the year ended Managing Director, Consumer and Managing Director, TalkTalk Business 31March 2015 and the unchanged policy will remain in effect respectively, effective from 3 June 2014.
These appointments were forthe year ending 31 March 2016. approved at the 2014 AGM.
In recognition of their Board appointment The Annual Report on Remuneration, which explains how the and in line with our pay policy, the Remuneration Committee set the Remuneration Policy was applied in relation to Executive Directors base pay for both Tristia Harrison andCharles Bligh at 335,000 for the year ended 31 March 2015 and how it will be implemented effective from 1 July 2014. for the year ending 31 March 2016.
Iain Torrens joined the Company on 1 January 2015 and was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on 5 January 2015.
Aligning the Remuneration Policy with Company strategy and performance Remuneration Policy during FY15 The Remuneration Committee understands the importance of In the year ending 31 March 2015 and in line with the binding linking the Remuneration Policy and approach to business strategy shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM, the Remuneration Committee and this focus has continued over the past twelve months.
have reviewed the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The Groups remuneration approach applies throughout the andhave determined that it continues to remain appropriate and fit Company and continues to be focused on enabling it to attract, for purpose.
All remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors motivate and retain high quality talent and ensuring there is a and Non-Executive Directors have been operated in line with the transparent link between remuneration and strategy at all levels, shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy.
aswell as the long term performance of the Company.
The Annual Bonus scheme pay-out for Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee this year has been determined by the Remuneration Committee to be paid at 80.5% of base pay asaresult of 10% of the Annual Bonus scorecard achieving minimum performance and 45% of the scorecard achieving maximum performance against the targets set.
30 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy for FY16 The Group strives to achieve its objectives of a simple and transparent commitment that from 1 April 2015, no employee of the Company approach to remuneration.
The Remuneration Policy isset out on will be paid below the living wage, which is currently set at 7.85 pages 31 to 37 and details of how this policy will be implemented perhour outside London and 9.15 per hour within London: forthe financial year ahead are set out on pages 38 to46, with a further award under the Shareholder Value Plan SVP for new thefollowing key changes being highlighted: entrants to the Company, although no Executive Director is Increases in the base pay award for Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh expected to receive such an award.
effective from 1 July 2015, to reflect both their past and future contribution to the Company: John Gildersleeve Remuneration Committee Chairman 13 May 2015 Our priorities for FY16 Highlights of FY15 To review the performance metrics for our short term No changes have been made to the Remuneration Policy incentive plans to ensure they remain aligned with both during the year ended 31 March 2015 shareholder interests and the strategic growth plans We have reviewed the Directors Remuneration Report in oftheCompany line with the Regulations, to ensure that it continues to be Launch the 2015 Sharesave Scheme to further encourage simple and transparent for our shareholders employee share ownership The Company continued its focus of encouraging employee To make a further awards under the SVP for a small share ownership with the launch of a new Share Match Plan numberof senior management either newly recruited in June 2014 and celebrated winning the ifs ProShare Award ornewly promoted, aligned to delivering significant for Best Overall Performance in Fostering Employee Share shareholder value Ownership for companies with 1,001 to 15,000 employees inNovember 2014.
In 2014, over 65% our people were Our commitment that no employee of the Company will be shareholders in the Company paid below the Living Wage for the year ending 31 March 2016 To review the Companys Group Personal Pension Plan to ensure that it is market competitive and that all employees of the Company are aware of the recent changes to atretirement pension options The current regulations require the Companys auditor to report to the members on the auditable part of this report marked and to state, in its opinion, that this part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the CompaniesAct.
31 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy This section sets out the Companys policy on remuneration for Executive Directors.
Following approval by shareholders and the binding vote at the 2014 AGM, the Remuneration Policy took immediate effect following theAGM and will apply for a period of three years from this date.
There has been no change to the Remuneration Policy following shareholder approval in 2014.
The Policy is restated below for reference purposes, with minor amendments such as reference to page numbers, for ease of reading.
The definitive version of last years reportisavailable for review on the Companys website.
Throughout this years report, naming conventions of both the Regulations.
In reaching this decision the Committee is mindful that TalkTalk Sharesave Scheme and the TalkTalk Shareholder Value Plan with its strong culture of employee share ownership, with over 65% SVP, which operate under the rules of the Value Enhancement ofemployees holding shares in the Company, employees have the Scheme VES have altered slightly from last years report, but the opportunity to comment and vote on all elements of this report and underlying Policies and Plans have not changed.
policy in their capacity as shareholders.
Employees are also given the opportunity to share their views through regular employee surveys Remuneration Committee and the all-employee consultation body One Voice.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making The Remuneration Committee is committed to consultation with recommendations to the Board in relation to the individual major shareholders when setting the Remuneration policy.
If any remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and the ofthese shareholders are opposed to the policy or any proposed Chairman.
These recommendations comply with the Remuneration amendments to the policy, the Committee will endeavour to meet Policy, which is set by the Board and the terms of reference of the with them, as appropriate, to understand and respond to any issues Committee.
The Committee works with the Board to determine they may have.
thebalance of allocation of profits between employee incentives, shareholder dividends and reinvestment into the Group.
Remuneration components We define our main fixed and performance related elements Remuneration approach ofremuneration as follows: The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to support the Group in: base pay, car allowance, benefits and pension contribution aligning individual and business performance with the interests of fixed :and shareholders through the delivery of clear and stretching targets: annual performance bonus variable.
strengthening the link between employee output and the delivery In addition, for Executive Directors, Executive Committee members and of shareholder value: other key senior management, there are two long term incentive plans supporting the Groups overarching philosophy, to maintain its the Discretionary Share Option Plan DSOP and the SVP, operating value player positioning in the marketplace: under the rules of the VES.
These plans do not run concurrently.
attracting, motivating and retaining high quality talent: The SVP is an alternative reward mechanism for Executive Directors and other members of the senior leadership team who will not maintaining a stable, efficient cost base: participate in the DSOP.
The Remuneration Committee intends that, enabling the Groups remuneration strategy to be tailored to its generally, in any one year, participants may only receive an award changing circumstances: and under the SVP and no other long term incentive plan.
reflecting corporate governance best practice.
The Committee reviews, at least on an annual basis, pay-out levels for Executive Directors at minimum, on target, stretch and super The Company firmly believes that remuneration should be structured stretch levels of performance, in order to ensure alignment with in a fair and competitive way, in order to incentivise individuals to ourshareholders.
achieve the highest levels of performance, and takes a consistent approach throughout the Group.
Malus and clawback Packages are designed to be market competitive with fixed The rules of the annual performance bonus and long term incentive remuneration set at market median levels.
Variable rewards, which plans allow the Remuneration Committee to exercise its discretion in are linked to challenging objectives based on the performance of using malus or clawback provisions, should it feel that it is in the best theGroup, are designed to reward exceptional performance and interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committees policy forthe delivery of shareholder value creation.
on the exercise of its discretion is set out in this Remuneration policy.
All future long term incentive awards will be subject to malus and Employee and shareholder consultation clawback provisions.
The Remuneration Committee did not formally consult with employees of the Company on the details of the Directors Remuneration Policy in the year ended 31 March 2014 when reviewing in line with the new 32 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued Executive Director shareholding requirement To ensure that the interests of the Executive Directors are closely For the purpose of this requirement the Company requires these aligned to those of its shareholders, the Company requires Executive tobe in unfettered and beneficially owned shares.
Newly appointed Directors to build over a number of years and retain a shareholding Executive Directors are given the opportunity to build up their inthe Company of at least 200% of their annual base pay.
shareholding over a period of years.
Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Fixed To attract and retain talent Paid monthly in cash.
Base pay byensuring base pay is Benchmarked against external competitive in the market.
market data from external specialists.
Set at a level which Takes into account the individuals incentivises Executive skills, experience and performance.
Directors to implement and The Remuneration Committee deliver our business strategy.
considers the level of the all-employee pay review when making recommendations anddecisions on pay for ExecutiveDirectors.
Any increase typically takes effect from 1 July annually.
Under normal circumstances no Executive Director will receive an increase in excess of 10% of their base pay in any given financial year.
Fixed Designed to be competitive Core benefits typically include: Reviewed annually relative to the market.
a defined contribution pension scheme, ora Pension contributions are made cash payment in lieu of a pension contribution through salary sacrifice, with the in certain circumstances: Company making a contribution of 10% of base pay for the CEO and CFO, private medical insurance for Executive which ismade as a cash payment in Directors andtheirimmediate family: and lieu ofpension and 5% base pay for car allowance company car.
Executive Directors are also entitled toparticipate If cash is paid in lieu of a pension on the same terms as allotheremployees in contribution this will be subject respect of the following benefits: tonormal tax and NI deductions.
four times base pay life assurance: Although the levels of Company income protection: and contributions vary, all employees annual leave.
have the ability to join the Companys defined contribution pension scheme.
Fixed Benefits may vary dependent These voluntary benefits arrangements include Reviewed periodically relative Voluntary on therole of the individual the purchase of additional holiday andthe ability tothemarket.
benefits and the personal choices to participate in all-employee share plans.
33 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors continued Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Variable Designed to focus Executives The bonus scheme is based on a balanced Payment is typically made in June.
Annual onthebusiness priorities scorecard that is comprised of financial The Remuneration Committee performance forthe financial year ahead andnon-financial measures, which are reviewed retains the ability to exercise discretion bonus and to align theindividuals annually.
Such measures include Group EBITDA, to adjust payments up or down in remuneration withthe Group revenue and innovation measures.
exceptional circumstances, where delivery of superior The measures and targets are set annually they feel this course of action businessperformance.
by the Remuneration Committee, to ensure they isappropriate.
are appropriately stretching for the delivery of on The bonus scheme pays at the target, stretch and super stretch performance.
following levels: At least 40% of the balanced scorecard on target awards for Executive will be based on financial measures.
Directors are equivalent to 60% ofbase pay: stretch awards for Executive Directors are equivalent to 110% ofbase pay: and super stretch maximum awards are equivalent to 170% of base pay.
Variable Designed to reward and Discretionary awards of nil-cost options are Awards do not vest until the third Share-based retainExecutives over the granted over TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC shares.
anniversary of the date of grant and incentive plans longerterm whilst aligning may have a deferral element.
Level of vesting is dependent on achievement anindividuals interests Discretionary ofperformance targets, usually over a three year If employment ceases during the .
Share Option performance period from the date of grant.
vesting period, awards will by default Plan DSOP lapse in full, unless the Remuneration For awards up to 2013, the performance Committee exercises its discretion.
measures were 50% EPS and 50% TSR.
In 2014, the performance measure was a TSR CAGR The maximum level of award measure with a FTSE 250 tracker underpin.
is a 200% base pay multiple, unlessthe Board determines that Awards vest after three years from grant.
60% exceptional circumstances exist, ofthe total vested options are exercisable in the which justify exceeding this limit, third year with the remaining 40% being eligible inwhich case options will not forexercise from the fourth year.
There is no intention to award DSOP awards to The DSOP scheme rules were those Executive Directors participating in the approved by shareholders in Shareholder Value Plan SVP.
However, this plan March2010 as part of the demerger is included in the Remuneration Policy to give the from Carphone Warehouse.
Remuneration Committee flexibility to make an award in the case of a new hire.
34 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors continued Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Variable Designed to reward and The Shareholder Value Plan SVP, awarded Awards are discretionary and are Share-based retain Executives over the under the Value Enhancement Scheme VES made as a block award to last four incentive plans longer term whilst aligning an rules, is designed to enable participants to share years rather than an annual award.
individuals interests with inthe incremental value of the Group in excess Shareholder Each participant is entitled to those of shareholders and in of an opening valuation, as determined by the Value Plan SVP purchase an agreed number of turn delivering significant Remuneration Committee and agreed with HMRC.
award under Participation shares, with no shareholder value.
Each award entitles the participant to purchase the VES participant being awarded more than afixed number of separate shares Participation scheme rules 10% of the value of the pool created.
shares in the subsidiary company, TalkTalk Group Limited, the holding company for the 60% of the award vests after three TalkTalk business.
years, with the remaining 40% of theaward vesting after four years.
The number of TalkTalk shares issued to each participant is determined by the incremental A cap on the total value of the value pool created above a 7% return to shareholders.
awards that vest at the end of the In order to avoid the possibility that value is four year period applies and total created by a rising tide rather than management awards will not result in a dilution performance, the Companys total shareholder ofthe issued share capital of the return will also be required to outperform the Company of more than 2.75%.
FTSE 250 before any vesting is possible.
The VES rules were approved The vesting of awards will be subject to continued byshareholders in March 2010 employment and the satisfaction of performance aspart of the demerger from conditions and or other specified events as Carphone Warehouse.
determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Participation shares that are purchased byparticipants are acquired at market value andparticipants offered a loan from TalkTalk atacommercial rate of interest in order tofundsuch a purchase.
When the awards vest the Participation shares willhave a value equal to the corresponding percentage they represent of the incremental value if any of the TalkTalk businesses at the timeof vesting in excess of the applicable opening valuation and shall then be purchased by the Company for cash and or by the issue or transfer of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
Any loan made to the participants to acquire Participation shares will be required to be repaid at that time.
If the market value of the Participation shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan and any accrued interest then the participant may be required to repay a proportion of the loan, the amount of which the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine.
Executive Directors and Executive Committee members will be required to hold 100% of any vested shares for a period of twelve months following vesting.
Other participants will be required to hold 50% of vested shares for a twelve month period.
Participation shares are generally forfeited to the value of the original loan plus accrued interest in the event that a participant leaves the Company prior to the vesting date.
35 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Remuneration scenarios The charts below illustrate the level of total remuneration the current Executive Directors could receive under the Remuneration Policy based on four levels of performance to ensure alignment with returns, which are received by our shareholders: at minimum, on target, stretch and super stretch levels of performance.
The on target level of total remuneration represents performance in line with the Companys expectations and super stretch is considered to be the maximum level of total remuneration in practice, but the cap on the SVP has intentionally been set at a level higher than this.
4 Executive Base pay Benefits, pension and car allowance Annual bonus LTIP T Harrison Notes 74% 7% 19% 1 Base pay is actual base pay in the year ended 31 March 2015.
375,422 Minimum 2 Taxable benefits are at the level over the year ended 31 March 2015.
3 Pension is based on a 10% Company contribution cash in lieu for D Harding, S Makin 45%5%27% 23% and I Torrens and a 5% Company contribution for T Harrison and C Bligh.
4 A nnual performance bonus is at 60% of base pay for target performance, 110% of base Target 611,722 pay for stretch performance and 170% of base pay for super stretch performance.
26%3% 45% 26% 4 S VP outcomes include assumed share price increases over the four year Super performance term.
1,056,522 5 As SVP is a block award over a four year term rather than an annual award, we have stretch annualised the potential pay-out over a four year period.
4 36 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued factors into consideration when making a remuneration decision Other share-based remuneration onanew Executive hire to ensure that these decisions are being TalkTalk Sharesave Scheme SAYE made in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders The Company operates an all-employee, HMRC-approved, including, but not limited to: Sharesave scheme, which all eligible employees and Executive Directors are able to participate in.
All eligible employees are quantum: invitedto join the scheme on an annual basis, subject to maximum type of remuneration being offered: participation levels, currently 500 per month, or in line with HMRC limits if these are increased in the future.
Details of current schemes the impact on existing remuneration arrangements for can be found in the Annual Remuneration section of this report.
otherDirectors: TalkTalk Share Match Plan SIP the remuneration package of any exiting equivalent Director: and The Company launched its first all-employee, HMRC-approved Share the remuneration arrangements of the candidate in their Match Plan in June 2014, following the Remuneration Committee previousrole.
approval of this scheme in the year ending 31 March 2014.
Approval for the TTG Share Match was granted by shareholders at the AGM In hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee may on24 July 2013. also make a buy-out award to an external candidate in compensation for any remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous TTG Share Match enables eligible employees to purchase market priced employer.
In making such an award, the Committee will take into shares by entering into a partnership share agreement and holding consideration relevant performance conditions, vesting periods such shares in trust for up to a five year period.
The rules of the Plan andthe form in which the award was made.
It is usual that any allow an employee maximum contribution of 1,800 per annum, buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis.
In exceptional orinline with HMRC limits if these are increased.
The Remuneration circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may make an exceptional Committee, at its discretion may award matching and or free shares award under one of the Companys existing long term incentive plans to eligible participants.
Matching shares may be granted up to a in order to compensate a candidate for any remuneration arrangements maximum ratio of two matching shares for each partnership share forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Free shares may be awarded up to a maximum value of 3,600 tax free per annum, or in line with HMRC The Remuneration Committee would only consider making such limits if these are increased.
awards where the individual has lost an award as a result of joining theGroup and awards will be subject to continued employment and Currently the Company provides one matching share for each performance conditions, as appropriate.
Following the appointment partnership share purchased by participating employees of a new Executive Director the shareholders will be informed of the orExecutive Directors.
details as soon as practicable.
Service contracts and remuneration packages There may be exceptional and unforeseen circumstances where Service contracts for Executive Directors theRemuneration Committee considers it appropriate to exercise discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R to grant an award to Under the Executive Directors service contracts both parties are facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a variable required to give twelve months notice of termination of employment.
Atthe Companys discretion they may terminate the contract or performance related award is made under such circumstances, immediately and not require the Director to work their notice the Remuneration Committee confirms that the award will be within the limits specified in the Remuneration Policy table.
andinstead pay twelve months contractual pay plus benefits.
TheExecutive Directors service contracts also include The Remuneration Committee emphasises that such discretion would atwelvemonth non-compete period.
only ever be used in genuinely unforeseen and exceptional events These contracts are available for inspection at the Companys where it would be disproportionate to seek shareholder approval atageneral meeting.
The Remuneration Committee considers that registered office.
in practice such events would arise highly infrequently, if at all, for Recruitment policy for new hires theduration of the Remuneration Policy.
Where such an event arises, When hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee the Remuneration Committee will consult with major shareholders will align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy and an explanation on how discretion has been exercised would be stated above, including the maximum limits for each remuneration provided in the following years Remuneration Report.
The Remuneration Committee will take all relevant 37 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 The default position is for annual bonus amounts and the vesting Service contracts and remuneration packages continued ofshare-based awards for good leavers to be pro-rated for time Relocation packages served from the start date of the scheme to the individuals exit There may be occasions when hiring a new Executive Director that dateand will be subject to the applicable rules of the scheme.
arelocation package is awarded, where a candidate and or the TheRemuneration Committee will have sole discretion to determine candidates immediate family relocate either on a temporary or thegood leaver status of an Executive Director.
The Committee permanent basis in order to fulfil their role for the best interests willdetermine on a case by case basis whether any vesting of ofthe Company and its shareholders.
In such instances, the ashare-based award is appropriate.
Remuneration Committee retains the right to compensate forreasonable and appropriate relocation expenses.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors do not take part in discussions on their Expatriate packages remuneration.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of On appointing a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee appointment substantially in the form suggested by the Code, and may offer assistance where a candidate and or the candidates each has a three month notice period with no compensation for loss immediate family is asked to relocate either on a temporary or of office.
The Company has no age limit for Directors.
The dates of permanent basis, from an overseas location to the UK or from the each contract are set out on page 44.
In such instances, the Remuneration Committee retains the right to compensate for reasonable and The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 43 of this appropriate relocation expenses.
These fees are reviewed but not necessarily increased on an annual basis, taking into account the responsibilities of the role Remuneration policy for internal promotions and their participation in the various governance committees of When an existing employee of the Company is promoted internally theCompany.
tothe role of Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy stated Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any annual above, including the factors it takes into account for new hires.
or long term incentive plans, or any pension arrangements.
Any remuneration awarded prior to promotion as an Executive External appointments Director will be retained and will be subject to the previous payment The Board supports Executive Directors holding Non-Executive terms.
The shareholders will be informed of any such remuneration Directorships of other companies and believes that any such in the Directors Remuneration Report following promotion.
appointments are part of the continuing development of the Executive Directors from which the Company will ultimately benefit.
Exit payments The Board has reviewed all such appointments and those appointments The Company operates the following policy in respect of exit payments: that the Board believes require disclosure pursuant to the Code are Executive Directors have a twelve month notice period from the set out on page 44.
The Board has also agreed that the Directors may Company and they in turn are asked to give the Company twelve retain their fees from such appointments.
Exit payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no more than one years contractual pay plus other benefits, and any contractual notice pay, unless determined otherwise by the Board in exceptional circumstances, or unless otherwise dictated by law.
The Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts and the vesting of any share-based award, taking into consideration the individual circumstances under which an Executive Director is leaving the Company.
38 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The following sections set out how the Companys Remuneration Policy was implemented in the year ended 31March 2015 and how it will be implemented for the year ending 31 March 2016.
Single figure of remuneration To assist shareholders understanding and in line with the Regulations, the table below provides a single figure of remuneration for each Executive Director.
The information for Non-Executive Directors is included in the table on page 43.
2 Value of benefits received by the Director in the year.
The components of taxable benefits are as follows: car allowance cash amount received in the year: and private medical insurance cost to the Company in the year for the Executive Director and their family.
3 Value of pension contribution or cash in lieu made by the Company in the year.
4 Value of annual bonus payable in respect of the year and based on performance for the financial year.
5 Under the 2014 SAYE D Harding was granted 3,750 options on 13 June 2014 at an option price of 2.40.
6 T he figures in this table are for the period S Makin was a Director to 13 November 2014.
The Bonus figure for S Makin includes the period from 14 November 2014 to31December 2014, when he was not a Director.
7 The figures in this table are for the period I Torrens was a Director from 5 January 2015.
8 The figures in this table are for the period C Bligh and T Harrison were Directors from 3 June 2014.
C Bligh and T Harrisons base pay was set at 335,000 on their appointment totheBoard, effective from 1 July 2014.
9 The figures in this table are for the period S Makin was a Director to 13 November 2014.
The base pay, taxable benefits and pension received for his employment not as a Director upto31 December 2014 amounted to 68,348, which included 9,576 in lieu of accrued annual holiday, not taken by his exit date on 31 December 2014.
5 Value of VES and DSOP awards which vested during the year and any dividend payments due on these vestings.
6 Under the 2013 SAYE scheme both D Harding and S Makin were granted 4,687 options on 14 June 2013 at an option price of 1.92.
7 S Makins base pay was 375,000 from his start date to 30 September 2013.
It was increased to 400,000 effective 1 October 2013.
Appointments in the year ended 31 March 2015 Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh were appointed to the Board in the A special discretionary award was made to Iain Torrens on 3 February 2015 roles of Managing Director Consumer and Managing Director TalkTalk in compensation for long term incentives forfeited from his previous Business, respectively, on 3 June 2014 and their base pay was set at employer on joining the Company.
The exercise of these options is 335,000, effective 1 July 2014. subject to continuing employment and the award vests in February 2018.
Detail of this one-off discretionary award can be found on page 41.
Iain Torrens joined the Company on 1 January 2015 and was appointed to the Board in the role of Chief Financial Officer on In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Committee considered both 5January 2015.
Iains base pay on joining the Company was set internal and external factors when setting the remuneration package at425,000.
for all newly appointed Executive Directors, in order to ensure that the decisions taken were made in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
39 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Leavers in the year ended 31 March 2015 Pension contributions Steve Makin stepped down from the Board in his role as Chief Year ended 31 March 2015 Financial Officer on 13 November 2014 and left the Company on During the course of the year, Executive Directors received Company 31December 2014.
No severance payments were made in relation pension contributions in line with the Remuneration Policy.
were no Directors who were members of a defined benefit pension scheme during the year.
In line with the Companys treatment of leavers as set out in the Policy above, the award made under the DSOP 2013 were lapsed Dido Harding had previously left the pension scheme at the end of andthe Participation shares purchased under the SVP in June 2014 February 2014 and therefore a cash payment in lieu of pension, equivalent were forfeited for the value of the outstanding loan plus accrued to 10% of base pay, was made for the year ending 31 March 2015. interest on Steves exit from the Company on 31 December 2014.
Stephen Makin received a 10% of base pay contribution pro-rata into his private pension plan up to his exit date of 31 December 2014.
Base pay Iain Torrens chose not to join the Company pension scheme on Year ended 31 March 2015 hisappointment and therefore a cash payment in lieu of pension, As previously disclosed in last years report, following the Committees equivalent to 10% of base pay, was made for the year ended review of Executive remuneration in the year ended 31 March 2014, 31March2015.
itwas agreed that the base pay of the CEO would be increased to 550,000, which was a 10% uplift and was effective from 1 July 2014.
Pension contributions for Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh were As previously disclosed, the CEO had received no pay increase since made by the Company of 5% of their base pay for the year ended joining the Company in 2010.
On appointment to the Board, the base 31March 2015. pay for both Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh was set at 335,000 The pension schemes provided for other employees of the Group effective from 1 July 2014.
Remuneration increases for Executive are included in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors were reviewed in line with market trends, peer group benchmarking and current internal practices.
Peer group analysis Year ending 31 March 2016 was conducted by Towers Watson, comparing against FTSE-listed In the year ending 31 March 2016, pension contributions from companies with comparable revenue and market capitalisation.
theCompany for Dido Harding and Iain Torrens will continue to becapped at 10% of base pay, in line with the Remuneration Policy, For the year ended 31 March 2015, average base pay increases and will be paid as a cash payment in lieu.
Year ending 31 March 2016 Annual performance bonus Following the Committees review of Executive remuneration Year ended 31 March 2015 duringthe year ended 31 March 2015, it was decided to increase the For the year ended 31 March 2015, the annual performance bonus base pay of Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh, under an exceptional was based on a balanced scorecard blend of financial and base pay award, to 375,000 effective from 1 July 2015, which is non-financial measures as set out in the table below.
In line with the Remuneration Policy, under normal circumstances no Executive Director will receive an increase in excess Executives had an incentive opportunity in the range of 0% to 170% of 10% of their base pay in any given financial year.
In determining of base pay.
Performance for the year was 134.1% of the target bonus these pay levels, the Committee has taken into consideration the potential, with 10% of the scorecard achieving minimum performance contribution the Managing Director, Consumer and the Managing and 45% of the scorecard achieving maximum performance against Director, TalkTalk Business have made since their appointment to the targets set, resulting in a bonus payment of 80.5% of base pay.
theBoard and the increased responsibilities that these positions Performance against each of the measures is set out below: carry, as well as the ongoing contribution that they will continue Measure Weighting Achievement tomake to the business.
The Committee does not anticipate any Headline Group EBITDA 15% Missed substantial base pay increases for either Tristia Harrison or CharlesBligh in the foreseeable future.
Group operating free cash flow 10% Minimum Consumer revenue 10% Missed For the year ending 31 March 2016, average base pay increases for allother employees will be 1.5%.
This is applied as a 1.5% all employee TalkTalk Business revenue 10% Super stretch increase.
In addition, adjustments were made in order to ensure that On-net churn 25% Super stretch no employee of the Company is in receipt of base pay lower than the TV net adds and NPS 10% Missed Living Wage from 1 April 2015.
NPS 10% Missed Innovation 10% Super stretch When determining bonus payments, the Remuneration Committee takes into account performance against the measures above, overallbusiness performance and individual performance ofExecutive Directors.
40 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued As stated in the Remuneration Policy, the Shareholder Value Plan Annual performance bonus continued SVP is designed to enable participants to share in the incremental Year ended 31 March 2015 continued value of the Group in the excess of an opening valuation, as determined Significant investment in the year in our rapidly growing TV business, by the Remuneration Committee and agreed with HMRC, with the in our fibre and mobile propositions has resulted in the majority of initial valuation being calculated over the five business day average financial measures being confirmed at below minimum.
Following consultation with the Companys top ten focus for the year on customer churn, accelerated growth within institutional shareholders, comprising 53% of the Companys TalkTalk Business and a strong pipeline for innovation has delivered shareholders, inApril and May 2014, awards under the SVP were strong performance against the remainder of the scorecard which made on 18June2014.
has resulted in bonus being paid out to Executive Directors at just above target levels.
Participants purchase Participation shares at market value and are given a loan by the Company in order to pay for the Participation The Remuneration Committee has judged that the targets are shares.
The loan attracts interest on an annual basis which is set commercially sensitive and remain so even on a retrospective basis byHMRC.
There are two performance conditions on which vesting as they could give competitors insight into TalkTalks business are dependent: planning process.
at least a 7% compound annual increase in the market capitalisation The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that this bonus has of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC from the starting valuation over the provided a strong link between reward and operating performance following three and four year periods: and and the creation of further shareholder value.
TalkTalk Groups shareholder return should outperform that Year ending 31 March 2016 oftheFTSE 250.
A review of the annual bonus scheme was conducted in the year ending 31 March 2015 to ensure that the performance measures in As performance conditions are satisfied and the award vests, the the balanced scorecard continue to be aligned to Company strategy.
Participation shares are purchased by TalkTalk through the issue The performance measures and their weightings for the year ending ofTalkTalk Telecom Group PLC shares or satisfied by shares held 31 March 2016 are set out below: bythe Group ESOT.
Performance measure Weighting Subject to performance conditions being met, 60% of the scheme Headline Group EBITDA 25% will vest in 2017, with the remaining 40% vesting in 2018.
On vesting, Group revenue 20% allPlc shares must be held for a minimum of twelve months from thevesting date for Executive Directors and 50% of Plc shares for Churn 25% aminimum of twelve months from vesting for other participants.
Innovation 10% Participation shares were acquired and loans granted by the Company Transformation 20% to the following Executives in the year ended 31 March 2015: The Board has determined that the disclosure of performance 2015 2015 Number of 2015 targets continues to be deemed commercially sensitive and they are % share Participation Outstanding loan therefore not disclosed in this report.
These targets are determined Director of pool shares purchased and Interest within the context of a longer term business plan and the disclosure D Harding 10 2,000,000 316 of these targets could give information to TalkTalk competitors to the 1 S Makin 5 1,000,000 158 detriment of business performance.
2 I Torrens 5 1,000,000 186 The Committee will disclose performance against all these measures T Harrison 5 1,000,000 158 in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
C Bligh 5 1,000,000 158 There is no change to the annual bonus policy for Executive Directors 30 6,000,000 976 which is set out in the Remuneration Policy table, with the exception of new performance measures and weightings shown above.
1 Award for S Makin was forfeited for the value of the loan plus outstanding interest onhis exit from the business on 31 December 2014.
2 Award to I Torrens made on 2 February 2015, resulting in a higher cost perParticipation Share-based incentive plans Share than original participants.
Year ended 31 March 2015 The remaining percentage of allocated shares in the SVP pool is held The single figure of remuneration includes amounts for the value of by other senior management of the Group.
options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Directors.
Details of the options for the Directors who served Interest on outstanding loans was charged at 3.25% during the year.
during the year are as follows: There was no clawback in respect of this scheme during the year The TalkTalk Group Shareholder Value Plan ended 31 March 2015 and no Non-Executive Directors participated awarded under the Value Enhancement Scheme rules inthis scheme.
The Board strongly believes that due to the evolving and dynamic nature of the Company and its growth aspirations, an award under the SVP will continue to closely align the senior team to shareholders interests and to further incentivise the Executive team to create significant value for shareholders for the next phase of development of the business.
41 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Share-based incentive plans continued Year ended 31 March 2015 continued TalkTalk Discretionary Shares The TalkTalk Discretionary Share Option Plan DSOP is designed toprovide a long term incentive plan for certain employees of the TalkTalk Group.
It is the intention of the Committee that, generally inany one year, participants may only receive an award under one such scheme.
Awards under the DSOP granted during the year or where performance periods ended during the year are set out below.
Scheme interests awarded in the year 2014 grant An award was granted under the DSOP rules approved by shareholders in 2010 and was an unapproved scheme in June 2014.
The Board recognises the importance of closely aligning the interests of the senior team to those of shareholders and therefore awarded allparticipants a multiple of 300% base pay, as an exceptional award under the DSOP rules.
The exercise of these options is subject to continuing employment and two performance conditions, which areset out below: at least a 7% compound annual increase in the market capitalisation of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC from the starting valuation over thefollowing three and four year periods: and TalkTalk Groups shareholder return should outperform that of the FTSE 250.
Awards under this scheme vest in June 2017.
The awards held by Executive Directors are detailed in the table below.
There was no clawback in respect of this scheme during the year ended 31 March 2015 and no Executive or Non-Executive Directors participated in this award.
In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Committee, at its sole discretion, may, in hiring a new Executive Director, make a buy-out award toanexternal candidate in compensation for any remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
A special discretionary award was made to I Torrens on 3 February 2015 in compensation for long term incentives forfeited from hisprevious employer on joining the Company.
The exercise of these options is subject to continuing employment and the award vestsinFebruary 2018.
The detail of the one-off discretionary award is set out below: Number of share options Director allocated I Torrens 117,905 117,905 Total DSOP under option at year ended 31 March 2015 Performance Average share Scheme Type conditions price used Face value Minimum level Vesting 4 1 Director type of award apply for grant of award of award date 2 D Harding DSOP 2012 Nil priced unapproved Yes 1.22 1,250,000 25% May 2015 3 DSOP 2013 Nil priced unapproved Yes 2.21 1,000,000 25% June 2016 5 3 S Makin DSOP 2013 Nil priced unapproved Yes 2.21 750,000 25% June 2016 6 7 I Torrens DSOP 2014 Nil priced unapproved No 3.19 376,116 100% February 2018 2 T Harrison DSOP 2012 Nil priced unapproved Yes 1.22 600,000 25% May 2015 3 DSOP 2013 Nil priced unapproved Yes 2.21 600,000 25% June 2016 2 C Bligh DSOP 2012 Nil priced unapproved Yes 1.22 650,000 25% May 2015 3 DSOP 2013 Nil priced unapproved Yes 2.21 650,000 25% June 2016 5,876,116 1 Face value is calculated as the number of options awarded multiplied by the average share price over the five day period prior to grant.
2 60% exercisable from May 2015 and remaining 40% exercisable twelve months thereafter.
3 60% exercisable from June 2016 and remaining 40% exercisable twelve months thereafter.
4 Performance conditions are set out on page 39.
5 Stepped down from the Board on 13 November 2014 and options lapsed accordingly on his exit from the Company on 31 December 2014.
42 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Share-based incentive plans continued All-Employee Share Plans Year ending 31 March 2016 TalkTalk Sharesave Scheme SAYE The TalkTalk Group Shareholder Value Plan SVP The TalkTalk Sharesave Scheme is a Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share The Company proposes to make a further SVP award under the rules option scheme and is approved by HMRC.
The SAYE Scheme is of the VES, already approved by shareholders, as a one-off award to administrated by a duly authorised committee of the Board.
All UK a limited number of members of the senior leadership team.
Executive Directors and employees of TalkTalk and participating companies within the Group are eligible to participate in the The Board strongly believes that due to the evolving and dynamic nature Sharesave Scheme as long as they have been employed for a of the Company and its growth aspirations, a further award under the qualifying period.
To participate in the Scheme an eligible employee SVP to a limited number of hires within the senior leadership team will must enter into a Sharesave contract and agree to make monthly continue to closely align the senior team to shareholders interests contributions between 5 and 500 for a specified period of three and to further incentivise the team to create significant value for orfive years.
shareholders for the next phase of development of the business.
Options granted to acquire TalkTalk Shares under the Scheme have The level of award granted to each individual during the year ending an option price determined by the TalkTalk Board, which will be not 31 March 2016 will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
less than the higher of 80% of the middle market quotation price The awards will recognise the individuals performance, including ortheir nominal value.
exceptional performance, but no individual participant shall be awarded more than 10% of the SVP pool.
In addition, the total value of the SVP No share options were exercised by Executive Directors within awards will be subject to the cap set out in the Remuneration Policy.
It is expected that no Executive Directors will participate in the SVP Dido Harding was awarded 3,750 share options under the 2014 inthe year ending 31 March 2016. scheme at an option price of 2.40, which has been reflected inthesingle figure table detailed above.
TalkTalk discretionary shares The Remuneration Committee intends to make an award in 2015 No Non-Executive Directors participated in this scheme.
under the DSOP rules approved by shareholders in 2010 to members Further details of the features and operations of the Sharesave Scheme of the senior management group.
can be found in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
The exercise of any options awarded under this scheme will be dependent All-employee Share Match Plan SIP on continued employment and the achievement of performance In June 2014, the Company introduced an all-employee, HMRC-approved conditions, set out below: Share Incentive Plan or SIP, Share Match Plan, which had been at least a 7% compound annual increase in the market capitalisation approved by the Remuneration Committee during the previous of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC from the starting valuation over the financial year.
This enables eligible employees to purchase market following three and four year periods: and priced shares by entering into a partnership share agreement and holding such shares in trust for up to a five year period.
Approval TalkTalk Groups shareholder return should outperform that of the forthe TTG Share Match was granted by shareholders at the AGM FTSE 250. on24July 2013.
Awards under this scheme will vest in 2018.
Both Dido Harding and Iain Torrens and have received the following It is expected that no Executive Directors or participants of the 2015 shares in respect of the Share Match Plan during the period ended SVP will participate in the SVP inthe year ending 31 March 2016.
31March 2015: Partnership Matching Total number Shares Shares of shares held purchased allocated in plan 1 D Harding 597 597 1,194 1 I Torrens 45 45 90 1 These awards have been included in the shareholding numbers reflected in the tablebelow.
43 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Additional information Shareholding requirements Executive Directors are required to build and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company, equivalent to 200% of base pay.
Currentshareholdings are set out below for Executive Directors: Holding Actual share requirement ownership as a % of Actual Requirement as a % of 4 Director base pay holding satisfied base pay D Harding 200% 4,254,184 Yes 2,662% 1 S Makin 200% 8,000 No 7% 3 I Torrens 200% 90 No 0% 2 C Bligh 200% No 0% 2 T Harrison 200% 1,282,934 Yes 1,318% 1 Stepped down from the Board on 13 November and left the Company on 31 December 2014.
2 Appointed to the Board on 3 June 2014.
3 Appointed to the Board on 5 January 2015.
4 Share price on 31 March 2015 used for calculation.
Whilst there are no shareholding requirements for Non-Executive Directors, this is encouraged within the Company.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board, taking account of the commitments and responsibilities of the role and their participation in the various governance committees of the Company.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors and their appointment dates are set out in the tables below.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible toparticipate in annual bonus, LTIP and pension arrangements.
2 Appointed to Remuneration Committee in June 2014.
3 Stepped down from the Board on 22 July 2014.
4 Stepped down from the Remuneration Committee in June 2014 5 Appointed to Nomination Committee in June 2014 There were no changes to fee levels for Non-Executive Directors in the year and no increases are proposed in the year ending 31 March 2016, except where there are changes in the membership of the various committees of the Board.
44 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Additional information continued Payments to past Directors In the year ended 31 March 2015, there were no payments made topast Directors not disclosed elsewhere in the report.
Payments for loss of office In the year ended 31 March 2015, there were no payments made to Executive Directors, past or present, in compensation for loss of office.
The 2013 DSOP award of 339,367 options made to Steve Makin lapsed on 31 December 2014 on his exit from the Company.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Committees that Non-Executive Directors serve on and dates of appointment are set out below.
Date first appointed Effective date of current Non-Executive Director Committee membership to the Board letter of appointment C Dunstone 20 January 2010 16 January 2013 1 J Gildersleeve Remuneration, Nomination 20 January 2010 16 January 2013 J Allwood Audit, Nomination 20 January 2010 20 January 2013 B Hoberman Remuneration 20 January 2010 20 January 2013 I West Audit, Nomination, Remuneration 8 February 2011 16 May 2013 2 H Stringer Nomination 26 July 2012 26 July 2012 J Powell Audit 26 July 2012 26 July 2012 3,4 J Shields Remuneration 16 May 2013 16 May 2013 1 Stepped down from the Audit Committee in June 2014.
2 Stepped down from the Remuneration Committee and appointed to the Nomination Committee in June 2014.
3 Appointed to the Remuneration Committee in June 2014.
4 Stepped down from the Board on 22 July 2014.
Fees for external appointments Towers Watson has also been appointed by the Group HR Director 2015 toadvise the Company on other matters in relation to employee Director Organisation 000 remuneration, such as variable pay plans over the course of the year.
1 2 D Harding Bank of England, British Land PLC, 3 The Jockey Club 52 The fees paid for services are set out below: 2015 1 Appointed in August 2014.
Company Nature of service 000 2 Stepped down in December 2014.
Towers Remuneration benchmarking and 3 Stepped down in January 2015.
Watson longterm incentive design 33 Charles Dunstone is also Chairman of Dixons Carphone Group PLC, which the Company believes is a significant other commitment Relative importance of spend on pay forhim.
The difference in actual expenditure between FY14 and FY15 on remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to Advice and services provided to the Remuneration Committee shareholders by way of dividends is set out in the graphs below: Except when matters concerning their own positions are being considered, the Chief Executive Officer and the Group Human Resources Director are normally invited to attend the meetings of Dividend paid m 17m theRemuneration Committee.
The Committee may discuss any matter affecting the Chairman without the Chairman being present.
2015 116m Over the course of the year ended 31 March 2015, the Remuneration Committee was advised on matters relating to Executive remuneration 2014 99m by Towers Watson.
The Remuneration Committee deems the advisers to be independent from the Company and the advice they received during the year to be appropriate and objective.
Total employee pay m Towers Watson is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants 3m Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
2015 122m 2014 125m 45 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Additional information continued Comparing pay to performance The following tables and chart show a comparison of total pay for theCEO since the listing of the Company on 29 March 2010, with theremuneration of all other employees and with TSR.
Bonus as a % Shares vesting Single figure of of maximum as a % of 1 2 remuneration available maximum 2011 3 000 920 19.9% 2012 3 000 967 40.0% 2013 000 5,617 39.2% 100% 2014 000 6,842 37.6% 2015 000 1,047 47.3% 1 The increase in the single figure number in 2013 represents the vesting of the first LTIP award since the listing of the Company.
2 It is not possible to show this value for the VES which vested in 2012 and 2013 as does not have a maximum % of shares.
However, for information the 2010 DSOP award vested at 100% of the maximum in 2012.
3 Maximum bonus for Executive Directors was 200% base pay for the years ended 31 March 2011 and 2012.
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration between 2014 and 2015 for the CEO and all other employees of the Group.
Base pay Taxable benefits Annual bonus % change % change % change CEO 8% 35.15% Employees 3% 6 % TSR performance graph The graph below shows the Groups performance compared to the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 from the date of the Groups listing on 29 March 2010.
The FTSE 250 was selected as it is a broad market index of which the Group is a member.
350 300 250 200 150 100 50 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC FTSE 250 0 29 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 46 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Additional information continued This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations issued under the Companies Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code, The GC 100 and Investor Group Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance and the Executive Remuneration Principles published by the Association ofBritish Insurers in November 2013.
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the Code.
In framing its Remuneration Policy the Committee has given full consideration to the matters set out in Schedule A of the Code and the Regulations.
As required by the Regulations, resolutions to approve the Remuneration Policy section and the overall Directors Remuneration Report will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
Voting regarding the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy was as follows: Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Total votes Remuneration Report 806,208,320 22,566,770 779,905 828,775,090 97.28% 2.72% 86.79% Remuneration Policy 767,064,382 51,852,294 10,638,319 818,916,676 93.67% 6.33% 85.75% John Gildersleeve Remuneration Committee Chairman 13 May 2015
