Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report Main objective To establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for I am delighted to be able to again take this opportunity to summarise the Companys developing policy on executive Remuneration Policy and the way it has been implemented during 2015. remuneration and for agreeing the As always, the Committee remains very mindful of the interest in executive remuneration and remuneration packages of individual has again sought to ensure that the remuneration policies and practices at Taylor Wimpey drive Directors and senior executives and to monitor and report on them behaviour that is appropriate and in the long term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Shareholders approved the Remuneration Policy the Policy, as set out on pages 71 to 73 2015 Developments of this Report, at the 2014 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee is of the view that the Policy Carefully monitored Company continues to remain appropriate and should therefore continue to operate until its planned renewal performance in relation to the at the Companys 2017 AGM.
There are no changes proposed to the Policy: however, there are achievement of its strategic goals, some minor differences in the way in which the Policy will be implemented in 2016 compared so as to ensure that the potential with 2015.
In order to assist shareholders, we have added additional explanations where there and actual reward available to are any differences in the way in which the Policy will be implemented in 2016 compared with Executive Directors and the wider previous years.
Where additional information has been included in this Policy, this has again executive team was closely linked to performance measures reflecting been clearly indicated in italicised text.
those achievements Although no changes are proposed, the Policy has, nevertheless, again been included in this Further aligned employees and Report in full, for ease of reference, so as to assist shareholders in reviewing the Companys shareholders interests by extending implementation of the Policy during 2015 and the Committees proposals for 2016.
The Annual the participation in the PSP to members Report on Remuneration, which describes the implementation of the Policy during the year, of the Companys regional Business will again be subject to an advisory vote by shareholders, and this will take place at the Unit management teams and by forthcoming AGM to be held on 28 April 2016. further extending shareholding target guidelines below Board level The Committee has continued its much valued practice of engaging with key institutional investors In conjunction with the Board, and shareholder representative bodies with regard to Director remuneration.
As in previous years, further increased participation the Committee has considered and taken into account all of the feedback which it has received in the all-employee share plans and is, as ever, very grateful for the constructive engagement and feedback.
In addition, andthe percentage of employee the Committee has carefully reviewed and taken into consideration applicable developments shareholders in corporate governance and best practice during the year.
2016 Objectives With regard to salaries, it is proposed that the general increase throughout the Company to take effect from 1 April 2016 will be 3% and it is proposed that this level of increase will also apply To review the Remuneration Policy to the three Executive Directors.
and consult as appropriate ahead of the submission of the Policy With regard to the 2015 short term incentive cash bonus in place for Executive Directors, to shareholders for approval at the Company performed strongly against certain of the Group KPIs during the year, particularly the 2017 Annual General Meeting in respect of its financial targets: Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT, Margin and Cash To continue the process of increased Conversion.
The Company did not however meet the challenging Customer Service target that alignment with shareholders through was set for 2015 and which attracted a 20% weighting.
Accordingly, the bonus outturn for 2015 increased participation in our all-employee was 78% of the maximum bonus potential.
One-third of this incentive for the Executive Directors share plans and enhanced share will be deferred into shares to be held on trust for three years.
For 2016, the improvement of ownership guidelines Customer Service remains a very high priority for the Company and therefore the Committee has retained this as a target with an unchanged weighting of 20% of the overall short term incentive scheme targets.
Turning to the Performance Share Plan PSP, as previously explained, the ROCE and Margin performance conditions of the 2012 awards were measured at different times compared to the relative TSR performance conditions for that award, with the consequence that only the ROCE and Margin elements could be included in the single figure for 2014 reported last year.
The Committee believes in ensuring a strong alignment between Executive Directors and senior management with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 68 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Accordingly, we were able to report last year that the ROCE and Margin The operation of the incentive arrangements for 2016 will be elements of the 2012 award would each vest at 100% and I can now unchanged structurally.
The short term incentive will therefore retain confirm that 100% of the relative TSR vs FTSE 250 element of the award EBIT, Cash Conversion and Customer Service as measures but we vested and that 71.86% of the relative TSR vs Sector Peers element have decided to increase the weighting on EBIT from 35% to 40%.
As a result, as set out in the table on page 80, 94.37% of the The Committee has also decided to replace the Margin performance overall 2012 PSP award vested in March 2015. measure with a Return on Net Assets measure in order to recognise the importance to the Company of capital efficiency.
Margin will of As set out in previous Remuneration Reports, the performance period course remain an area of particular operational focus for the Group for PSP awards for 2013 and for subsequent awards was amended and will be taken into consideration as part of the Committees such that all performance conditions, including those for TSR, are now assessment of the financial underpin test that is applied before measured over a period of three financial years, with all ending and any award vests under the PSP.
With regard to the PSP itself, the measured as at 31 December of the final year.
As a result of this, I can performance measures will be revised to: TSR versus the FTSE 100: now confirm that, based on the Companys results for 2015 and its TSR versus a peer group to which has been added Countryside relative TSR for the three year period ending on 31 December 2015, Properties: plus the ROCE and Cash Conversion measures.
all measures were met in full which has resulted in an overall vesting of The ROCE measure has been stretched from a range of 16% to 24%, 100%, details of which are also set out in the table on page 80.
The single to 18% to 26% in order to reect the continued progress made gure for 2015 set out below therefore includes the TSR elements of the in improving the strength and quality of the landbank, whilst at the 2012 PSP awards which, for example, amounted to 1,488,085 for same time increasing our expected returns from the business.
Pete Redfern plus all elements of the 2013 awards.
The Committee believes in ensuring a strong alignment between The level of vesting under the PSP awards made in 2012 and 2013 Executive Directors and senior management with the interests of the reect the continuing improvement in the Groups performance including Companys shareholders.
Executive Directors interests continue to Return on Capital Employed and Operating Margin from 14.3% to be strongly aligned with those of the Companys shareholders through 27.1% and 11.2% to 20.3%, respectively, between 2012 and 2015. the shareholding requirements described on page 84, and also via This improvement in financial performance has contributed to a c. 209% the requirement to defer each year one third of their cash bonus into increase in Taylor Wimpeys share price over the same period from shares which are then required to be held on trust for three years 65.8p on 31 December 2012 to 203.1p on 31 December 2015 and this is described in more detail on page 80.
This alignment was further total shareholder return of c. 243% over the same period, resulting enhanced with regard to shares that vest under the PSP, through the in a significant increase in value for our shareholders and in the level introduction of a requirement to retain such shares for at least one year of the awards that have vested.
after vesting of the 2014 awards and for two years after any vesting of the 2015 and subsequent years awards other than to pay tax The Committee believes that the level of achievement under both on exercise.
the short term and long term plans reects the Companys excellent underlying performance, which is described in the Chairmans Statement The Committee believes that the remuneration of executives and on page 10 and the Chief Executives Review on page 12. the whole team during 2015 and the incentives for further improving performance that have been awarded during the year, support the Executive Directors single gure Companys strategy to deliver enhanced returns to shareholders.
The Committee also believes that the short term incentive payments The following chart compares the 2015 single gure for total and the level of vesting of awards under the PSP reect the Companys remuneration for each of the Executive Directors with the gure for 2014. success to date in the delivery of that strategy.
In each case the gures have been restated as explained in note c on page 78 to show a more meaningful comparison by including all of the I do very much hope that you will again feel able to support the level 2013 PSP awards that vested in the 2015 gures and all of the 2012 of remuneration paid with respect to 2015, and our remuneration PSP awards that vested in the 2014 gures.
proposals for 2016, at this years Annual General Meeting.
Executive DirectorSingle total remuneration gure 000 Pete Redfern 2015 19% 17% 64% 5,531 Chief Executive 2014 16% 17% 67% 6,126 Baroness Ford of Cunninghame Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ryan Mangold 20% 19% 61% 2015 2,496 Group Finance Director 2014 17% 19% 64% 2,590 James Jordan 2015 19% 17% 64% 2,592 Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 2014 17% 17% 66% 2,868 Bonus Fixed Pay LTIP 69 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Committee There is no requirement to vote on the Policy in 2016 as no changes to the Policy are proposed.
The Policy is set out below for information Committee members Number of meetings attended in 2015 only: the chart, showing remuneration scenarios on page 73, has Baroness Ford been updated to reflect proposed 2016 remuneration levels and minor of Cunninghame, changes to the text of the Policy have been made to reflect the fact Committee Chairman 2 2 that it has been previously approved by shareholders.
In order to assist Kate Barker 2 2 shareholders, we have also added additional explanations where there Kevin Beeston, Chairman 2 2 are any differences in the way in which the policy will be implemented in 2016 compared with the way in which the policy was implemented Rob Rowley 2 2 when first approved by shareholders.
Where additional information has been included this has been clearly indicated in italicised text.
Introduction The Remuneration Policy Report as approved by shareholders at the This Report has been prepared to comply with the provisions of the Companys 2014 AGM is set out on pages 61 to 66 of the Companys Companies Act 2006 and other applicable legislation, including the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts and also appears on the Companys Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and web site at www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations Reports Regulations 2008 as amended Regulations, and has corporate-governance also been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the UKLA ListingRules.
Policy overview A key part of the Committees role is to ensure that the remuneration This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee of Executive Directors and senior management is aligned to the on behalf of the Board.
It is, of course, key that the Company The 2015 Remuneration Report includes disclosures which reflect is able to attract and retain leaders who are focused and also in full the BIS Regulations on remuneration reporting, divided into appropriately incentivised to deliver the Companys strategic objectives two sections: within a framework which is aligned with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
This alignment is achieved through a combination Remuneration Policy Report, setting out the framework within of deferral into shares of a percentage of the short term incentive which the Company remunerates its Executive Directors and arrangements and also via share ownership guidelines which require other senior executives.
This was approved by shareholders at executives to build up holdings of Taylor Wimpey shares by retaining the 2014 AGM and is binding on the Company from the 2014 vested share awards.
These guidelines require Executive Directors to AGM.
It is intended to submit a new Remuneration Policy report put in place a plan to accumulate a holding in the Company of twice to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
their basic salary within a specified period.
Annual Report on Remuneration, setting out how the Companys The Committees Remuneration Policy ensures that a significant present Remuneration Policy was applied during 2015 and how percentage of the overall package of Executive Directors and senior the policy will be implemented in 2016.
The Annual Report on management remains at risk.
With all packages substantially geared Remuneration will be subject to an advisory resolution at the towards share incentive schemes and performance, the Committee AGM on 28 April 2016.
Details of the resolution and its status believes that the pay and benefits of its Executive Directors and senior as an advisory vote are set out in the Notes to the Notice of management adequately take account of reward versus risk.
In line with The Investment Associations Guidelines on Responsible The Regulations require that the Companys auditors report Investment Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee ensures that the to shareholders on certain parts of this Report and state whether incentive structure for Executive Directors and senior management in their opinion those parts of it have been properly prepared in will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by accordance with the Regulations.
The Remuneration Policy Report, inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, which describes the Committees Remuneration Policy for Executive the Committee under its terms of reference may, where it considers Directors and has applied since its approval by shareholders on appropriate, take ESG matters into account when considering the 17 April 2014, contains unaudited information.
Elements of the Annual overall remuneration structure.
Report on Remuneration, which describes how the Committee has implemented its existing policy in 2015, contain audited information.
The Committee considers that no element of the remuneration arrangements, which are all very carefully considered, will encourage Remuneration Policy Report inappropriate risk taking or behaviour by any executive.
The table on Unaudited information pages 71 to 73 summarises the Committees Policy for the Remuneration This part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of Executive Directors which, since being approved by shareholders at of Schedule 8 set out in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and the 2014 AGM, became effective from the conclusion of the 2014 AGM Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
and remains binding until the AGM in 2017.
It also summarises the The Companys Remuneration Policy was put to a shareholder vote remuneration position of the Chairman and Non Executive Directors at the 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company AGM and and the Companys all-employee share schemes.
was approved by 98% of shareholders who voted.
70 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary To recruit and reward Salaries are normally reviewed annually to ensure The maximum annual salary increase Company and individual executives of a suitable that salaries remain competitive with external will not normally exceed the average performance are factors calibre for the role and market practices and are competitive when increase which applies across the considered when duties required.
measured against FTSE peers other non-financial wider workforce.
However, larger reviewing salaries companies of a similar size in terms of market increases may be awarded in capitalisation and other large UK housebuilders.
certain circumstances including There is no automatic entitlement to an increase but not limited to: each year.
increase in scope or Takes into account the following: responsibilities of the role: to apply salary progression for the performance, role and responsibility of each a newly appointed Director: and individual Director: where the Directors salary the economic climate, general market conditions has fallen signicantly below and the performance of the Company: the market positioning.
the level of pay awards across the rest of the business: and salary levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Chairman The Chairmans and Fees consist of a single consolidated fee for Aggregate annual limit of N A and Non NonExecutive Director the Chairman plus the payment of a cash amount 1 million imposed by the 1 Executive fees should be in line with to cover his ofce expenses, an annual fee for Articles of Association.
Director fees recognised best practice the other Non Executives and additional fees and be sufficient to attract for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and and retain high calibre the Remuneration Committee.
is also paid to the Senior Independent Director in recognition of the responsibilities of that role.
Set by reference to the responsibilities undertaken by the non executive, taking into account that each Non Executive Director is expected to be a member of the Nomination Committee and or the Audit Committee and or Remuneration Committee.
Reviewed periodically but generally annually and at least every other year.
Takes into account levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive, share scheme, benets-in-kind or pension arrangements.
The Chairman is entitled to participate in the Companys private medical insurance scheme.
Other Provides a competitive The main benets offered include: Life assurance of up to four times N A benets, package of benets to basic salary and a pension of up company-provided car or a cash allowance including assist with recruitment to two-thirds of the members in lieu: benetsand retention of staff.
entitlement for a spouse on death in-kind provision of a fuel card: in service, or in retirement, are provided, together with a childrens life assurance: allowance of up to 100% of the private medical insurance: and dependants pension for three or a 5% discount on the price of a new or part more eligible children.
The cost of exchange home acquired from the Group these benets is not predetermined.
The value of a company-provided Benets-in-kind are not pensionable.
car or a cash allowance in lieu is of a level appropriate to the individuals role and is subject to review from time to time.
The fuel card covers the cost of all fuel, for both business and personal use.
For home purchases, the price discount is calculated at the plot release price less the average discount to third party buyers for that house type, less a further 5%.
71 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Short term Rewards the achievement Bonus awards are determined by the Committee The maximum STIA opportunity The STIA measures are based incentive of stretching objectives that after the year end, based on annual performance for Executive Directors is set at on a scorecard of key annual arrangement support the Companys against targets set at the beginning of each year.
Target is financial, operational and STIA annual and strategic goals.
set at 75% of salary and environmental measures One-third of any bonus payable is deferred into threshold at 0%.
and the measures for 2016 Compulsory deferral in shares for three years.
No further performance are described in the Annual shares with no matching conditions apply.
is designed to further align Dividends or other distributions will accrue in the interests of Directors The Committee may vary favour of participants during the three year deferral with shareholders.
the metrics and weightings period and will be received with any shares that from year to year according vest after the applicable deferral period.
to strategy and the market, however financial measures A clawback mechanism applies to all participants will normally have the most in the event of a material misstatement of the significant weighting.
Groups accounts and also for other dened reasons.
The period of the clawback is three years from the date of payment.
No element of any STIA is pensionable.
Long term Annual grants of shareExecutive Directors and other designated The maximum award currently Measures for 2015 are based incentive based long term incentives senior executives can receive annual awards of in performance shares is normally on: ROCE RONA : Relative 2 plan LTIP assist with retention and performance shares or share options, although over shares with a face value of TSR measured against a FTSE help to incentivise senior it is the Companys normal policy to grant 200% of base salary.
In exceptional grouping of the 51st to 150th executives to achieve performance shares only.
circumstances this can be increased ranking companies: TSR returns for shareholders up to 300%.
measured against an Awards of performance shares provide alignment through the inclusion of unweighted industry peer with shareholders as they deliver subject to If share options were to be relative Total Shareholder group: and Cash Conversion.
meeting performance conditions the full value granted in addition to or instead Return TSR as a measure, Vesting of awards is also of the shares, which can increase and decrease of performance shares then the driving further UK operating subject to the achievement over the three year performance period.
limits would be doubled to reflect margin progression and of a financial underpin.
the relative fair value of options improving return on net Dividends or other distributions will accrue to performance shares.
The Committee may vary the operating assets through for Directors during the performance period measures that are included the cycle.
The use of and will be received with any shares that vest in the plan and the weightings shares and the introduction in favour of participants after the applicable between the measures from in 2014 of a post-vesting performance period.
Any changes to shareholding period, the metrics would be subject helps align the interests For awards made in 2014 there was a to prior consultation with the of senior executives with requirement to hold net after tax shares Companys major shareholders.
those of the Companys resulting from any vesting for at least one shareholders.
year post-vesting, rising to two years for The targets and weightings for awards made in 2015 and beyond.
2016 are described in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measures are currently measured over three financial years.
Pension The Company aims Pension benets for Executive Directors are Pete Redfern: cash allowances N A to provide competitive provided through one or more of the following of 20% of salary up to a scheme retirement benets that arrangements: specic cap and 25% of salary represent an appropriate above the cap.
4 Personal Choice Plan : level of cost and risk for 3 5 James Jordan: cash allowances the Groups shareholders.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme : of 20% of salary up to a scheme or as cash allowances.
specic cap and 28% of salary above the cap.
Ryan Mangold: 20% of salary, split between a cash allowance and 7 Company pension contribution.
Company contributions to any pension scheme in respect of the recruitment of a new Executive Director will not exceed 30% of base salary per annum.
A Salary Exchange Arrangement is available, allowing the sacrifice of a portion of salary, to be paid into a pension scheme as a Company contribution.
72 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets All-employee All employees including The Sharesave plan and SIP have standard Sharesave: Employees can elect N A share Executive Directors are terms under which all UK employees with for a savings contract of either schemes encouraged to become at least three months service can participate.
three or five years, with a maximum shareholders through the monthly saving set by legislation operation of all-employee or by HMRC.
Options can be share plans such as exercised during the six months the HMRC approved following the end of the contract.
Sharesave plan and a SIP: Employees can elect to contribute Share Incentive Plan SIP.
an amount per month or per tax year by one or more lump sums.
The maximum saving or contribution level is set by legislation or Government from time to time and the Committee reserves the right to increase contribution levels to reect any approved Government legislative changes.
Shareholding Encourages greater levels Executive Directors and senior executives are Executive Directors: 200% of N A guidelines of shareholding and aligns expected to achieve and maintain a holding salary 100% within five years employees interests with of the Companys shares at least equal to a of appointment and balance by 6 those of shareholders.
significant proportion of their respective salary.
The Company makes a contribution to the Chairmans ofce-related and other expenses, as reported on page 79.
Taylor Wimpey Share Option Plan Awards made under this plan may include Income Tax-approved awards made up to HMRCs aggregate limit of 30,000.
Awards normally vest after three years from the start of the performance measurement period provided that the performance condition has then been achieved.
No awards have been made under this plan since 2009 and no further awards are intended.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Schemes The Group has two principal UK pension schemes: Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan and Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS.
The latter was created on 7 March 2013 and all members of the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme and the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension & Life Assurance Fund, the two legacy dened benefit schemes, were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013.
Two Directors are members of the TWPS, which is closed to future accrual.
Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan PCP The PCP was introduced on 1 April 2002.
It is a dened contribution stakeholder pension scheme, which all new eligible UK employees are invited to join.
All active members of the two legacy dened benefit arrangements were invited to join the PCP when those arrangements closed to future accrual.
TWPS Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Executive section of the TWPS.
They have a Normal Retirement Age under the TWPS of 62.
Until the 200% target is achieved, an Executive Director will be required to retain in shares at least 50% of the net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the LTIP.
This percentage has been corrected from previous disclosures made with regard to Ryan Mangolds pension allowance which was previously disclosed in this section at a level of 15.6% although the full contribution of 20% was disclosed correctly in other sections of the Remuneration Report for 2014.
Performance criteria pay chart 2016 The chart below illustrates the level and mix of remuneration based on the current policy depending on the achievement of threshold, target and maximum for the Executive Directors.
It has been updated to reect 2016 salary levels but the assumptions used are the same as in the Policy Report that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Salary is 819,724, 412,000 and 380,586 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively with effect from 1 April 2016.
Benets are 47,000, 21,000 and 43,000 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
Pension is 195,924, 81,800 and 93,764 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan, respectively.
For the Short Term Incentive Arrangement the target and maximum award is 75% and 150% of salary, respectively.
For performance share awards under the long term incentive plan PSP the target assumed for these purposes to be at threshold performance and maximum are 40% and 200% of salary, respectively.
73 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Additional information Malus and clawback and takes into account any governance related developments and During 2014, the Committee reviewed and updated the malus and guidance that arise, on an ongoing basis.
clawback provisions to ensure compliance with the 2014 Code and took How performance measures were chosen the opportunity to extend these provisions so that they applied to future The performance metrics that are used for each of the short and STIA awards and Long Term Incentive Plan PSP awards made in 2015 long term incentive plans have been selected to reflect the Groups and future years.
Where there has been a misstatement of results: error key strategic goals and are designed to align the Directors interests in calculating the incentive payment: or misconduct on the part of the with those of the Companys shareholders.
individual, the Committee has the ability to seek to recover any overpaid bonus or PSP award.
This applies for a period of up to three years The STIA performance metrics include a mix of financial and personal following the determination of the performance conditions applying metrics reflecting the key annual priorities of the Group.
The financial to the award and can be effected by reducing if necessary to zero metrics will generally determine at least 50% of the bonus and include the payment or vesting of any future STIA or PSP award or by requiring profit before interest and tax as this reflects the Companys strategic the individual to repay the overpaid amount.
The other metrics, selected on an annual basis, will be measurable and will ensure that executives are motivated Committee discretion to deliver across a scorecard of key objectives.
The Committee fully recognises that the exercise of discretion must be undertaken in a very careful and considered way and that it is an The performance conditions applicable to the LTIPs were selected by area that will quite rightly come under scrutiny from shareholders and the Remuneration Committee as they are consistent with the overall other stakeholders.
It is however important for the Committee to retain longer term success of the Company.
TSR provides an external some discretion to make payments outside of its Remuneration Policy assessment of the Companys performance against its competitors in exceptional circumstances.
The Committee confirms that any exercise via an unweighted industry peer group and relative TSR measured of discretion in such circumstances would be within the available against the FTSE 250.
It also aligns the rewards received by executives discretions set out in this Report and the maximum levels available with the returns received by shareholders.
The Margin, ROCE and Cash set out in any plans would not be exceeded.
Conversion targets ensure that returns to shareholders and the generation of cash to fund them are the result of long term sustainable With regard to the STIA and LTIP, the Committee, consistent with financial performance.
market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these plans but in all cases within the The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and rules.
These include but are not limited to the following albeit with the the appropriateness of the performance targets each year.
Targets are level of award restricted as set out in the policy table on pages 71 to 73 : set based on a sliding scale that takes account of internal planning and external market expectations for the Company.
Only modest rewards Who participates in the plans.
are available for delivering threshold performance levels with maximum The timing of grant of award and or payment.
rewards requiring substantial out-performance of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
The size of an award and or a payment, subject to the limits of the rules.
Additional information Performance metrics Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event As referred to in last years letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration of a change of control or reconstruction.
Committee, the Margin metric used in the PSP in recent years has been Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories replaced by a Cash Conversion metric which will apply to 25% of the 2015 awards.
A greater focus on Cash Conversion is a key element of for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen.
the strategy that has been outlined to shareholders during 2014.
For 2016, Margin will also be replaced by Return on Net Assets RONA Discretion to dis-apply time pro-rating in the event of a change as a bonus metric.
RONA is intended to reinforce the focus on capital of control or good leaver circumstances.
efficiency and phasing of capital needs in the short term.
However, Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, Margin remains an important KPI for the Company and Margin corporate restructuring, acquisition, divestment, change of control, performance will be taken into consideration as part of the Committees special dividend or a change in prevailing market conditions.
assessment of the financial underpin that applies to awards under the The ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional PSP.
In light of the growth in the Groups market capitalisation, the FTSE events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
250 peer group used for one of the TSR components of the PSP awards in previous years has been replaced, beginning with the 2015 awards, How shareholder views are taken into account by a peer group comprised of the 50 companies ranked above and 50 The Remuneration Committee considers very seriously all shareholder ranked below Taylor Wimpey by market capitalisation.
This comparator feedback received in relation to remuneration each year and guidance group is felt to be more appropriate given the Companys current size from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
Shareholder than the FTSE 250. views are key inputs when shaping the Remuneration Policy and the Committee welcomes any comment or feedback on any aspects of Additional information Performance metrics for 2016 awards remuneration and will always consider and respond.
The Remuneration Committee has further reviewed the suitability of the PSP performance metrics in light of the Companys 2015 performance The Committee regularly engages with its largest shareholders and has determined that for awards for 2016 and subsequently, the regarding the ongoing Remuneration Policy and implementation and FTSE TSR comparator group described above will be replaced by the will take into account any feedback when determining any changes FTSE 100 and the Peer Group TSR comparator group will be amended that might apply.
The last such consultation took place in December by the addition of Countryside Properties plc.
The former will better 2015 and included the proposed performance targets and weightings represent the Companys current position as a constituent of the FTSE of the PSP and STIA and salary proposals for 2016.
100 and the latter will further increase the size of the peer comparator The Committee follows the principles of good governance relating group following Countrysides admission to listing on the London Stock to Directors remuneration as set out in the Main Principles, Supporting Exchange on 17 February 2016.
Principles and Code Provisions of the Code.
The Committee reviews 74 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk External non executive director positions The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to the Taylor Subject to Board approval and provided that such appointments fall Wimpey plc Board or an external hire.
within the general requirements of the Code and do not give rise to In the case of an external hire, the Company may choose to buy-out any conict issues which cannot be managed by the Board and the any incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited Executive Director, Executive Directors are permitted to take on non on leaving the previous employer.
This will only occur where the executive positions with other companies.
Executive Directors are Company feels that it is a necessary requirement to aid the recruitment.
permitted to retain their fees in respect of such positions.
Any such The replacement value would be provided for, taking into account the appointments would be the subject of a public announcement to form cash or shares and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood the London Stock Exchange.
of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration On 11 November 2014 Pete Redfern was appointed as an independent being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using Taylor Wimpeys existing share plans wherever and to the extent non executive director to the Board of Travis Perkins plc where he also initially served on its Audit and Remuneration Committees.
His fees for possible, although in exceptional circumstances awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted 2014 were 55,000 per annum and he received 9,000 for the period from his appointment to the end of 2014.
In addition to the Board, under the Listing Rules.
he now currently serves on the Remuneration Committee and his In the case of an internal hire including a promotion, as previously current fees total 57,000 per annum reported, the Company will honour any commitments entered into prior Remuneration Policy for the wider workforce to their appointment to the Board even where it is not consistent with When setting the policy for Executive Directors, the Committee is the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fullled.
made fully aware of pay structures across the workforce.
In addition, Directors contracts the Committee will conduct a formal review of remuneration across It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have contracts the Group and for all levels of employee every three years.
of employment providing for a maximum of one years notice either way.
Virtually all of the Companys employees participate in incentive This meets the latest proposals in the Principles Of Remuneration issued arrangements and many employees can elect to take their performance by The Investment Association during 2015.
Service contracts for related payment in shares rather than cash, further enhancing the all Executive Directors and letters of appointment for all Non Executive link and alignment between shareholder value and employee reward Directors are available for inspection as described in the Notice of throughout the Company, which both the Company and the Committee Annual General Meeting.
Each of the Executive Directors service contracts provides for: In the past, the Company has also operated targeted long term incentive The payment of a base salary details of which are set out on arrangements, such as the Land Value Plan LVP for senior divisional page 77. and functional roles with payouts in shares.
The LVP operated from An expensed Company-provided car or a cash allowance in lieu: 2012 to 2014 and was open to designated senior executives below a fuel allowance: life assurance: and private medical insurance Executive Director level.
It was designed to reward participants details of which are set out on page 79. for managing the landbank in a way which added value, through a combination of managing and adding value to the existing land Employers contribution to a pension scheme details of which portfolio and buying land and adding value over and above the base are set out on page 85. case for each acquisition.
Performance was measured over a three A notice period by either side of 12 months.
year period and awards to senior participants were in shares which A provision requiring a Director to mitigate losses on termination.
were required to then be retained for 12 months.
The LVP addressed a strategic imperative for a period and has now been withdrawn, The service contract for each of Pete Redfern and James Jordan with participants instead considered for full participation in the PSP.
additionally provides for a pension allowance.
No Executive Director participated in the LVP.
Each service contract contains the following performance-related The Company also offers both Sharesave and SIP schemes to all provisions: eligible UK employees with more than three months service.
Remuneration Policy on recruitment or promotion Participation in one or more LTIP.
Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the current Remuneration Policy, taking into account the experience and calibre In respect of pay in lieu of notice PILON, it is the Companys policy that liquidated damages should not automatically apply on the of the individual.
Where appropriate, the Company may offer a below market salary initially with a view to making above market and workforce termination of an Executive Directors contract.
Such contracts do provide for PILON to be paid, with the amount determined having regard increases over a number of years to reach the desired salary positioning, subject to individual and Company performance.
Benets and pension to normal legal practices.
In accordance with this approach, payment for early termination of contract without cause by the Company is to be will be provided in line with those offered to other Executive Directors, with relocation expenses arrangements provided for if necessary.
determined, in the case of each Executive Director, having regard to normal legal principles which require mitigation of liability on a case-byTax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with the Company.
Any such payment would typically be determined by reference to the main elements of a Directors remuneration, namely: Legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company, if considered appropriate and reasonable to do so.
salary, STIA entitlement subject to Committee discretion as appropriate, benets-in-kind and pension entitlements.
Phased payments will be The variable pay elements that may be offered will be subject to the considered by the Company where appropriate.
There are no change maximum levels described in the policy table above.
The Company of control provisions that apply in relation to the service contract of may also apply different performance measures if it feels these any Executive Director.
appropriately meet the strategic objectives and aims of the Company whilst incentivising the new appointment.
75 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Other than in certain good leaver circumstances including, but not The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference limited to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement, no STIA would usually which are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk be payable unless the individual remains employed and is not under corporate investor-relations corporate-governance.
TheCommittees notice at the payment date.
Any STIA paid to a good leaver would main responsibilities are to: be based on an assessment of their and the Companys performance Establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures for over the applicable period and pro-rated for the proportion of the developing policy on executive remuneration and for determining STIA year worked.
the remuneration packages of individual Directors, and to monitor Where an Executive Director is considered by the Remuneration and report on them.
Committee to be a good leaver, deferred bonus awards shares Determine the remuneration, including pension arrangements, would vest.
In other circumstances, awards would lapse.
With regard to long term incentive awards, the LTIP rules provide Monitor and make recommendations in respect of remuneration that other than in certain good leaver circumstances, awards lapse for the tier of senior management one level below that of the Board.
Where an individual is a good leaver, Approve annual and long term incentive arrangements together the Committees normal policy is for the award to vest on cessation with their targets and levels of awards: of employment following the application of performance targets no Determine the level of fees for the Chairman of the Board.
later than the normal vesting date of the award and a pro-rata reduction Select and appoint the external advisers to the Committee.
to take account of the proportion of the applicable performance period outstanding post the cessation.
The Committee has discretion to deem The Committee currently comprises three Independent Non an individual to be a good leaver.
In doing so, it will take account Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
Margaret Ford of the reason for the departure and the performance of the is the Committee Chairman and theother members of the Committee individual through to the time of departure.
are Kate Barker, Kevin Beeston and Rob Rowley.
Membership of the Committee is, and was throughout 2015, in line with the Code.
In situations where an Executive Director is dismissed, the Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such Details of attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings held payments are made in good faith: during 2015 appear on page 70.
In discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages No Director or other executive is involved in any decisions about for breach of such an obligation : or his her own specific remuneration.
By way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in Advice to the Committee connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
The Committee keeps itself fully informed on developments and best The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive practice in the field of remuneration and it seeks advice from external Directors are regulated by letters of appointment over a term of advisers when appropriate.
three years, which are reviewed annually.
Both the Company and The Committee appoints its own independent remuneration advisers the aforementioned Directors have a notice period of six months and during the year it continued to retain the services of New Bridge and the Directors are not entitled to compensation on termination Street, part of Aon PLC.
other than for the normal notice period if not worked out.
New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Service contracts and letters of appointment may be inspected Group Code of Conduct.
It provides no other services to the Company.
at the Companys Registered Office during normal business hours.
Although the wider Aon PLC group of companies provide insurance Legacy arrangements broking and pension administration support services to the Company, Any commitment made which is consistent with the approved the Committee is entirely satisfied that the provision of such services Remuneration Policy in force at the time that commitment was does not create any conflicts of interest.
New Bridge Street was made will be honoured, even where it is not consistent with the appointed in February 2009 following a comprehensive tendering policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its advisers on an annual basis.
Annual Report on Remuneration Unaudited information This part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 The Committee also receives legal advice from Slaughter and May of the revised Schedule 8 set out in the Large and Medium-sized as and when necessary.
This generally relates to technical advice Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 on share schemes and also with regard to any senior appointments as amended, and 9.8.
This Annual Report and termination arrangements.
on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the The fees paid to the Committees advisers in 2015 were: New Bridge 2016 AGM.
The information in the Implementation of the Remuneration Street 88,000 2014: 80,000 representing a full years appointment.
Policy during 2015 section on pages 78 to 85 has been audited.
No significant amount of advice was sought from Slaughter and May Remuneration Committee during the year.
The role of the Remuneration Committee the Committee is to Pete Redfern, the Chief Executive: James Jordan, the Group Legal recommend to the Board a strategy and framework for remuneration Director and Company Secretary: and the Group Human Resources for Executive Directors and senior management in order to attract Director each attend Committee meetings by invitation only but are not and retain leaders who are focused and incentivised to deliver the present for any discussions that relate directly to their own remuneration.
Companys strategic business priorities within a remuneration framework which is aligned with the interests of our shareholders and thus designed to promote the long term success of the Company.
76 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Chairman and Non Executive Directors The terms of engagement of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are regulated by letters of appointment as follows: Notice period by Notice period by Name Date of appointment as a Director Date of initial letter of appointment Term of appointment Company months Director months Kevin Beeston 1 July 2010 13 May 2010 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Kate Barker 21 April 2011 7 February 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Margaret Ford 25 April 2013 19 March 2013 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Mike Hussey 1 July 2011 30 June 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Rob Rowley 1 January 2010 1 December 2009 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Humphrey Singer 9 December 2015 9 December 2015 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 How the Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2016 Long Term Incentive Plans Base Salary Taylor Wimpey Performance Share Plan PSP The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries in February The annual awards granted to Executive Directors in 2016 will be subject 2016 and has decided to award increases of 3% for each Executive to the following performance conditions: Director, with effect from 1 April 2016, in line with the equivalent general Weighting Below Maximum increase made to all employees subject to a very small number % of total threshold Threshold 100% award 0% vesting 20% vesting vesting of exceptions.
TSR v Direct Peer Group 30% Below Equal to Index The salaries of the Executive Directors effective from 1 April 2016 will Index Index Index 8% p. a. be as follows: TSR v FTSE 100 20% Less than Median Upper Salary at Salary at median Quartile Name 1 April 2015 1 April 2016 Increase Absolute ROCE in 2018 25% Less than 18% 26% Pete Redfern 795,849 819,724 3% 18% Ryan Mangold 400,000 412,000 3% Conversion of operating 25% Less than 65% 70% James Jordan 369,501 380,586 3% profit into operating cash 65% ow averaged over a three Short term incentive arrangements STIA year performance period The STIA performance metrics and their weightings for 2016 are shown 2016-2018 in the table below.
The targets themselves, as they relate to the current financial year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, detailed, Awards vest on a straight line basis between these points.
The ROCE retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them targets are based on the absolute ROCE in 2018, dened as operating will be provided in next years Remuneration Report.
profit, divided by the average of the opening and closing net operating assets, which is, in turn, dened as capital employed plus intangibles Measure Strategic objective Weighting less tax balances.
The Direct Peer Group Index of housebuilders is an Group EBIT To increase profit 40% unweighted index comprised of Barratt Developments, Bellway, Berkeley Cash conversion Delivering sustainable growth 20% Homes, Bovis Homes Group, Countryside Properties, Crest Nicholson, RONA Driving capital efficiency 20% Galliford Try, Persimmon and Redrow.
Customer Service Caring about our customers 20% An underlying requirement for any vesting under the current sharebased incentive plans is that at the time of approving the vesting, The above metrics and weightings reect an increase in weighting the Committee must be satisfied with the overall financial performance from 35% to 40% with regard to the Group EBIT measure and the of the Group.
This will include inter alia the Companys ROCE and replacement of the Margin measure with the RONA measure which Margin performance.
has been included in the 2016 STIA so as to reect the importance of The Committee also retains the right as part of its overall discretion driving the Groups capital efficiency.
As mentioned earlier in this Report, to reduce the vesting of the award if it considers that volumes i. e. the Margin will however remain a very important area of ongoing focus number of homes sold have not been satisfactory during the relevant across the Group and will also continue to form part of the financial performance period.
underpin test conducted by the Remuneration Committee prior to any vesting taking place under the PSP.
Customer Service remains Dividends and other distributions will accrue on all awards during the an area of particular focus by the Company and challenging targets performance period and then be released in cash when, and to the have again been put in place, in order to both reect this and the extent that, the relevant awards vest.
weighting attached to this measure following the increase in weighting that was implemented in 2015.
77 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Non Executive Directors and Chairmans fees Fees of Non Executive Directors are determined by the Board in their absence taking into account the research carried out by independent remuneration consultants of fees paid to non executive directors.
The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee in his absence.
A summary of the current fees are set out below.
The fees of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are reviewed every other year with any increases taking place with effect from 1 July.
The Chairmans fees were reviewed in his absence by the Board in June 2015 having last been reviewed in 2013 and, taking into account the independent advice received from New Bridge Street, it was determined that his annual fees should be increased by 15% with effect from 1 July 2015.
The fees of the Non Executive Directors have remained unchanged since 2013 and will be reviewed during the course of 2016: Annual Fees as at 1 April 2016 Chairman 295,000 Basic Non Executive Director fee 55,000 Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 Audit Committee Chairman 15,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 All Directors will submit themselves for election or re-election, as appropriate, at the AGM in accordance with the Code.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2015 Audited information Performance graph This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of 100 invested in Taylor Wimpey plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 and in the average of the housebuilder index introduced for the 2012 TWPSP awards onwards.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
We have included Crest Nicholson in this years graph as they have been included in the index for the 2014 awards onwards.
Total shareholder return Value 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 Taylor Wimpey plc Housebuilders Index including Crest Nicholson FTSE 350 Index Chief Executive remuneration The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same seven year period as is reflected in the TSR graph above.
The total remuneration figure includes the STIA and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The STIA and LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Year ending 31 December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 a b Total Remuneration 000 1,657 1,542 1,674 3,009 6,724 6,250 7,019 STIA % 100% 85% 82% 95% 90% 90% 78% LTIP vesting % 0% 0% 0% 40% 85% 94% 100% a As the 2012 PSP award did not vest until March 2015, the final value of the ROCE and Margin elements of this award were not known at the time the 2014 report was prepared and therefore an estimate of the share price at vesting was used.
The 2014 single figure includes 2,402,000 in respect of the ROCE and Margin elements of the 2012 PSP award and 1,613,115 in respect of the TSR elements of the 2011 PSP award as TSR was measured from date of grant for the 2011 and 2012 PSP awards.
b The 2015 single figure includes 2,143,460 in respect of the ROCE and Margin elements of the 2013 PSP award, 1,488,085 in respect of the TSR elements of the 2012 PSP award as TSR was measured from date of grant for the 2012 PSP award : and 1,428,977 in respect of the TSR elements of the 2013 PSP award as TSR was measured from 1 January 2013 for the 2013 PSP award.
c In order to show a more meaningful comparison of the total figures, the chart included in the Chairmans letter on page 69 includes all of the 2013 PSP award that vested in the 2015 figure and all of the 2012 PSP award that vested in the 2014 single figure.
78 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
b The Company also paid 2,000 2014: 10,000 as a contribution towards the Chairmans annual office and related administration costs incurred in carrying out his role.
The Chairmans fees increased from 256,250 to 295,000 per annum with effect from 1 July 2015. c Ryan Mangold was previously, until the end of 2014, a member of the salary exchange scheme operated by the Company and the amount exchanged during the year was 0 2014: 9,000.
The Flexible Pension Arrangement is a voluntary arrangement, the effect of which is to allow members and the Company to benefit from savings in National Insurance contributions through the sacrifice of a portion of salary, which would then be paid into a pension scheme as a Company contribution, prior to NIC being calculated.
The Scheme therefore reduces the effective salary of the individual.
d This column shows the vesting during 2015 and 2014 of LTIPs as set out in the table at the top of page 80.
Note that the 2014 figures reported last year were based on estimates of the value of the shares at vesting.
These have been restated to reflect the actual value of the shares at the point of vesting.
As explained on pages 68 and 69, the reason why this includes vesting from awards made in both 2011 and 2012 is due to the timing of the vesting of various elements of the awards which differ as between ROCE and Margin which are calculated on 31 December of the final year of the performance period and the TSR measures which are calculated on the third anniversary of the award.
With effect from and including the 2013 awards all measures are now tested as at 31 December.
e The 2014 LTIP figure includes the value of the TSR elements of the 2011 PSP awards and the ROCE and Margin elements of the 2012 PSP awards.
Details of the percentage of each award vesting are summarised in the table at the top of page 80.
For an explanation on why the 2014 figure includes elements of both the 2012 and 2013 awards, please see note d above.
The 2015 LTIP figure includes the TSR elements of the 2012 PSP award plus all elements of the 2013 award as the performance period for the 2012 award ended in March 2015 and all elements of the 2013 award ended on 31 December 2015.
Details of the percentage of each award vesting are summarised in the table at the top of page 80. f These figures represent the cash allowances payable as described in the Remuneration Policy Pension section.
For Pete Redfern this is 20% of salary up to a scheme specific cap notional earnings cap and 25% of salary above the cap: for Ryan Mangold this is 20% of salary, split between a cash allowance and Company pension contribution as reported in Non-Group Pension Arrangements on page 85: and for James Jordan this is 20% of salary up to a scheme specific cap notional earnings cap and 28% of salary above the cap.
79 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued LTIP awards included in 2014 single figure Date of end of Share price % Vesting performance at vesting LTIP award Performance target Weighting max 100% period Date of vesting pence 2011 PSP TSR FTSE 20% 100% 31 03 2014 01 04 2014 119.4 TSR Peer Group 20% 93.85% 31 03 2014 01 04 2014 119.4 a 2012 PSP ROCE 30% 100% 31 12 2014 05 03 2015 149.0 a Margin 30% 100% 31 12 2014 05 03 2015 149.0 a The share price shown is as at 5 March 2015: in the 2014 Remuneration Report these awards had not yet vested, therefore the share price at vesting was calculated as the average of the share prices for the dealing days in the last three months October to December 2014.
See notes d and e on page 79 for an explanation on why more than one year of LTIP awards has been included in the single figure.
Short term incentive arrangements STIA in respect of 2015 For 2015, the Committee measured performance against each individual performance target, which is directly linked to the achievement of the Companys strategy, as follows: % of salary Summary % of % of salary deferred in Measure Strategic objective Weighting of targets Result maximum paid in cash shares EBIT To increase aggregate profit 35% Entry 570m 637m 35 23.33 11.67 Target 594m Stretch 618m Operating Margin Driving further UK operating 25% Entry 18.5% 20.3% 23 15.33 7.67 margin progression Target 19% Stretch 20.5% Cash Driving increased cash 20% Entry 50% 67.0% 20 13.33 6.67 generation and retention as Target 60% a proportion of PBIT Stretch 65% Customer Service Improving and delivering 20% Entry 83% 81.0% 0 0 0 customer service Target 89% Stretch 93% Total 100% 78 52 26 The amounts paid to Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan in respect of 2015 are set out in the remuneration table on page 79.
80 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Vesting of long term incentive awards in 2015 The BIS Regulations require the value of long-term incentives vesting, by reference to performance periods ending in the financial year being reported on, to be included in the single gure.
This applies to the TSR elements of the March 2012 TWPSP awards and all elements of the March 2013 TWPSP award.
The performance period for the TSR elements of the 2012 award ended on 5 March 2015, which was after the Preliminary Announcement of the Companys 2014 results, and the performance outcome was independently calculated by New Bridge Street.
As reported last year, the performance period for all elements of annual PSP awards made from 2013 and for subsequent years now ends on 31 December.
Consequently, the performance period for all elements of the 2013 award ended on 31 December 2015 and the final measurement was undertaken based on this date.
The outcomes were as follows: Performance % of this award Award Measure Weighting Vesting scale achieved vesting a 5 March 2012 TSR FTSE 20% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at upper 10th out of 203 100% quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile TSR Peer 20% No vesting below median, 20% vests at Index TSR, 100% vests 48.6 points above 71.8% Group at Index TSR 8% p. a. multiplicative.
Pro-rata vesting in between Peer Group index b c 6 March 2013 TSR FTSE 20% No vesting below median, 20% vests at median, 100% vests at upper 5th out of 204 100% quartile.
Pro-rata vesting between median and upper quartile d TSR Peer 20% No vesting below median, 20% vests at Index TSR, 100% vests 73.9% above Peer 100% Group at Index TSR 8% p. a. multiplicative.
Pro-rata vesting in between Group index e b ROCE 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at 10% ROCE, 100% vests 27.1% 100% at 20% ROCE.
Pro-rata vesting in between f c Margin 30% No vesting below median, 20% vests at 11.5% margin, 100% vests 20.3% 100% at 16% margin.
Pro-rata vesting in between a All outcomes are as at 5 March 2015. b All outcomes are as at 31 December 2015. c Median target is 105th ranking and upper quartile target is 52nd ranking as averaged for dealing days in last three months of the performance period ended 31 December 2015. d Median is placing 102.5 and upper quartile is placing 51.5 as averaged for dealing days in last three months of the performance period ended 31 December 2015.
In deciding whether, and to what extent, any vesting of awards should take place under any LTIP, the Committee also considers the overall financial performance of the Company during the period.
The Committee has determined that the overall financial performance of the Company has been strong in respect of the performance periods of the above LTIPs and therefore determined that the 2013 LTIP should vest in full based on the achievement in full of all performance measures.
81 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Change in Company performance relative to change in remuneration 2015 2014 Change % Profit before tax, interest and exceptional items 637.0m 480.7m 32.5 Dividends paid per ordinary share 9.35p 3.10p 201.6 interim 2015 interim 2014 0.49p 0.24p final 2015 final 2014 1.18p 1.32p special 2015 special 2014 7.68p 1.54p Employee pay in aggregate see Note 7 to the financial statements 195.4m 173.6m 12.6 Employee pay average per employee see Note 7 to the financial statements 45,869 45,009 1.9 Change in Chief Executive pay compared to Taylor Wimpey employees The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between 2014 and 2015 for the Chief Executive compared to the average pay of Taylor Wimpey employees during the year.
Salary Benefits STIA Pete Redfern 3.0% 9.3% -10.7% Average pay of Taylor Wimpey employees 3.0% 3.0% 3.0% Directors share-based rewards and options Performance awards were made in the year under the TWPSP scheme as summarised below: % vesting at Number of Face value threshold Award Type shares % of salary Performance conditions Performance period performance Pete Redfern TWPSP Nil cost 1,035,958 1,545,338 25% on ROCE: 25% on cash 01 01 2015 31 12 2017 20% options 200% conversion: 20% on a TSR v a FTSE Group : 30% on TSR v Peer Group index Ryan Mangold TWPSP Nil cost 476,965 711,488 As above As above As above options 200% James Jordan TWPSP Nil cost 480,980 717,477 As above As above As above options 200% a a FTSE Group covers the group of 50 companies immediately above, and 50 companies immediately below, the FTSE 100 point, as described earlier on page 74.
b Market value per share on date of grant 25 March 2015 was 156.6 pence.
c Vesting is subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
d Or later publication of the preliminary full year or half year results announcement on which the associated performance condition will be calculated.
e Adjustment to number of shares in award to reflect the impact of the Special Dividend of 7.68 pence for 2015 paid on 3 July 2015 when the market value per share was 191.3 pence.
f At later publication of the preliminary full year or half year results announcement on which the associated performance condition will be calculated.
g Market value per share on date of grant 9 March 2015 was 147.8 pence.
h Vesting will be 20% for the 2015 award 2014 award: 20% for threshold performance 50th percentile for TSR for FTSE Group, Index TSR for Housebuilder Index: 16% ROCE 2014 award: 10% : 65% cash conversion 2014 award: 14% margin and 100% 2014 award: 100% for upper quartile performance 75th percentile for TSR vs FTSE Group: index 8% p. a multiplicative for Housebuilder Index, 24% ROCE 2014 award: 20% : 70% cash conversion 2014 award: 18.5% margin with straight line vesting between these two thresholds.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for outstanding share awards during the financial year.
The market price of the ordinary shares on 31 December 2015 was 203.1 pence and the range during the year was 124.1 pence to 205.0 pence.
Details of any share awards made to Executive Directors during 2016 will be included in the 2016 Remuneration Report.
83 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Directors interests in shares of the Company Share ownership guidelines These Taylor Wimpey share ownership guidelines are designed to encourage greater levels of shareholding by executives at various levels within the Company for the purpose of alignment with the Companys shareholders which the Committee strongly believes is very important.
The guidelines cover the Executive Directors and those executives who participate in long term incentive plans with all participating executives required to build up shareholdings through the retention of shares vesting under the Companys share plans.
The level of shareholding for Executive Directors to attain is two times base salary.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve a holding equivalent to one times base salary within five years of their appointment and although there will be no set time limit for achieving a two times salary holding, each Executive Director is required to agree a personal plan with the Chairman on the target to be achieved within an agreed time frame.
Executive Directors are also required to retain at least 50% of their net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the Companys long term incentive share plans, until such time as the guidelines have been met.
Only beneficially owned shares count toward the guidelines, thus the Executive Directors deferred portion of STIA vestings are excluded.
Members of the Group Management Team GMT and other designated executives are currently expected to maintain a shareholding generally in direct proportion to their level of participation in the Companys discretionary share plans.
Each participant will be required to retain at least 50% of shares vesting or acquired net of taxes pursuant to the Companys long term incentive plans until such guidelines are met.
The Committee will keep the guidelines under regular review.
As mentioned earlier in this Report, any shares that vest under the 2014 award must, as a standard requirement, be retained by executives for at least 12 months and for at least 24 months under later awards.
The Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are also encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Directors interests in 1p ordinary shares held fully paid ordinary shares are as set out in the table below: Beneficially owned Outstanding interests in share plans Share interests expressed as a percentage of salary Value of shares Value of shares at 1 1 15 at 31 12 15 including any SIP shares including any SIP shares ordinary ordinary as at 31 12 15: salary as at 25 02 16: a e e b c d Director shares shares STIA TWPSP TWSOP Sharesave as at 31 12 15 salary as at 1 4 16 Excluding STIA Including STIA Excluding STIA Including STIA shares v the shares for shares v the shares for shareholding information shareholding information e e guidelines only guidelines only Kevin Beeston 1,155,562 1,155,562 Pete Redfern 2,688,789 3,330,956 817,330 4,117,799 73,331 850% 960% 739% 835% Ryan Mangold 636,792 892,399 368,377 1,841,152 20,623 453% 552% 394% 480% James Jordan 1,309,330 1,561,034 379,476 1,911,834 73,331 858% 968% 746% 841% Kate Barker 40,000 40,000 Margaret Ford 84,940 84,940 Mike Hussey 150,000 150,000 Rob Rowley 200,000 200,000 Humphrey Singer 0 25,000 a Or date of appointment.
b Only the net amount of shares has been included in this column.
c This is the percentage of shareholding achieved at 31 December 2015 towards the targets described on page 73 calculated on 2015 salary and at 31 December 2015 share price.
Salaries as at 31 December 2015 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan were 795,849, 400,000 and 369,501 respectively.
d This is the percentage of shareholding achieved at 31 December 2015 towards the targets described on page 73 calculated on 1 April 2016 salary and at 25 February 2016 share price.
Salaries as at 1 April 2016 for Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan will be 819,724 412,000 and 380,586 respectively.
e Including partnership and matching shares held under the Share Purchase Plan SIP described on page 73.
Note: The share price on 31 December 2015 and used in the above calculation was 203.1 pence per share and on 25 February 2016 was 181.8 pence per share.
Note: The above table does not include the deferral into shares of 33% of the 2015 STIA for any Executive Director.
The only changes to the Directors interests as set out above during the period between 31 December 2015 and 29 February 2016 were the regular monthly purchases of shares and 1:1 matching by the Company under the Share Incentive Plan by Pete Redfern 320 shares and James Jordan 320 shares.
84 Strategic Report pages 2-41 Governance pages 42-91 Financial Statements pages 92-146 Shareholder Information pages 147-157 www.
co. uk Directors pension entitlements Dened benefit schemes The Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS.
The following table sets out the transfer value of their accrued benets under the TWPS calculated in a manner consistent with The Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 2008.
Increase decrease in Transfer value Increase in Transfer value Transfer value transfer value Increase in of accrued accrued gross of gross of from 31 12 14 transfer value pension Normal Accrued pension from Accrued Directors Directors to 31 12 15 from 31 12 14 increase retirement pension as at 31 12 14 to pension as at contributions at contributions at less Directors to 31 12 15 less less Directors a b b c Director Age 31 12 14 31 12 15 31 12 15 31 12 15 31 12 14 contributions ination contributions Pete Redfern 62 14,440 202 14,642 236,626 241,877 5,251 James Jordan 62 26,697 380 27,077 576,448 559,151 17,297 a The George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme GWSPS closed to future accrual on 31 August 2010 so pension accrual ceased on that date.
Members of the GWSPS were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013 and there was no change to members benefit entitlement.
Pension accrual shown above is the amount which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to 31 August 2010.
Pension benets include a two thirds spouses pension.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with ination limited each year to 5%.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with ination limited each year to 2.5%.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with ination subject to an overall cap of 5% per annum.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with ination subject to an overall cap of 2.5% per annum.
We have only taken into account dened benets accrued over the period to 31 August 2010 and have not included any Dened Contribution pension benets accrued after this date.
b Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Value Regulations 2008. c The transfer value includes the effect of uctuations due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as financial market movements.
Note: The GWSPS closed to future accrual on 31 August 2010 and so no contributions were made after 31 August 2010.
There was no change to benets during the year and consequently no difference between the changes to any Directors pension benets in comparison with those of other employees.
Non-Group pension arrangements Ryan Mangold has non-Group pension arrangements, to which contributions were paid by the Company as set out below: 2015 2014 Ryan Mangold 40,000 34,000 Notes: Ryan Mangold also received a pension allowance of 37,787 in 2015 2014: 37,000 in lieu of Company pension contributions over the Annual Allowance limit introduced in April 2011 of 40,000.
Pete Redfern and James Jordan received cash allowances of 190,000 2014: 185,000 and 91,000 2014: 88,000 respectively in lieu of Company pension contributions.
Statement of shareholder voting At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the result of the shareholders vote on the Companys Remuneration Report for 2014 was: 2015 2014 Votes Votes For 1.9 billion 1.9 billion 99% 99% Against 18.9 million 10.8 million 1% 1% Withheld 35 million 8.6 million As stated earlier, the Remuneration Committee has consulted further with our shareholders on remuneration matters during the year.
We hope that shareholders will, again, support the Remuneration Report at the AGM on 28 April 2016.
Approval This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 29 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by the Remuneration Committee Chairman: Baroness Ford of Cunninghame 29 February 2016 85
