88 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2015.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR CHANGES This year we saw the transition to our new Group CEO Peter Fankhauser, who was appointed on 26 November 2014.
The Committee worked to formulate appropriate remuneration arrangements for Peter, in line with the Companys approved Remuneration Policy, which it considers provides alignment of Peters reward with his delivery of the execution of the long-term strategy of the Company.
Prior to his appointment as Group CEO, Peter was part of the Thomas Cook Senior Management Team and from November 2013 served as Group Chief Operating Officer and as such, has already built Chairman up a significant holding of 1,286,776 shares in the Company, which Warren Tucker he continues to build upon.
A summary of Peters remuneration Scheduled Meetings arrangements is set out below and further details can be found in Four the Directors Remuneration Report.
Although Peter was appointed during FY15, we have included the outcome of long-term incentive Other members Dawn Airey, Annet Aris and Emre Berkin awards vesting during the year that were granted to him prior to his appointment as Group CEO.
Directors biographies on pages 70 to 72 During the year, the Committee also considered departure arrangements for former Group CEO Harriet Green.
During her Composition of the Committee twoyears and four months serving as Group CEO at Thomas Cook, All members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Carl Symon stepped down from the Committee on 30 September 2015. ourshare price rose from 16.25p 30 July 2012 to 136p 25 November TheCommittees terms of reference are available on the Governance 2014 and therefore, as previously disclosed, a proportion of her 2012 pageof the Companys website at www.
share award vested pro-rated for time and performance.
Meetings also regularly attended by: OUR PERFORMANCE IN FY15 Frank Meysman Chairman, Peter Fankhauser CEO, Martine Verluyten Independent Non-Executive Director, Alice Marsden Group Company The travel industry continues to face challenging external pressures Secretary, Mitul Shah Deloitte LLP, and members of the HR Leadership and therefore our Remuneration Policy and performance targets Team as required.
reflect both the environment in which we operate and the Companys Committee activities: strategic goals.
As set out in the Strategic report, we have made Approved remuneration arrangements on the change of Group CEO progress despite the headwinds of currency exchange rates and Considered Corporate Governance updates in determining executive regional instability.
remuneration Made recommendations to the Board on executive remuneration REMUNERATION OUTCOMES IN FY15 forthefinancial year Approved outcomes for short-term and long-term incentives in line As a result of achievements made during the year in respect of withthe remuneration policy and incentive plans progress against underlying EBIT and cash conversion targets, payout Approved the granting of awards under the Companys long-term has been made under the Group Bonus Plan in respect of these incentive plans elements.
There is still further progress to be made in respect of some of our other strategic KPIs, and therefore given the stretching targets set, the proportion of the bonus relating to web penetration and new product revenue targets did not payout.
The Committee was focused on ensuring that the outcomes under the FY15 Group Bonus Plan provided an appropriate balance between the financial performance of the business and the performance of the Management and in order to achieve this the Committee made certain adjustments to the calculation of financial performance.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 89 The performance condition applying to the June 2012 Performance The performance period in respect of the September 2012 PSP awards Share Plan PSP and Co-Investment Plan COIP awards, which ended on 30 September 2015 and the shares vested in accordance was based on absolute share price, was met in full and 100% of the with performance achieved.
The overall level of vesting for the awards awarded shares vested in July 2015.
The Companys average share made to current Executive Directors during FY12 was 70%.
price over the 60 trading days between 12 June 2014 and 4 September It is considered by the Board that the targets under our Group Bonus 2014 was 127.44p representing an increase of almost 800% on the Plan for FY15 remain commercially sensitive at this time and will be 14.3p adjusted share price on the date of the award and significant disclosed in our FY16 remuneration report.
Targets for the FY14 Group value created for shareholders.
Bonus Plan are disclosed on page 98.
There was no payout under the FY14 Group Bonus Plan to Executive Directors and other participants in the Group Bonus Plan.
The table below provides a high level summary of the outcomes for the year and the remuneration arrangements going forward for the Executive Directors: Role Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Name Peter Fankhauser Michael Healy Annual salary 690,000 520,200 as at appointment in November2014 increased from510,000, 2% effective 1April2015 FY16 maxbonus opportunity one third 150% of salary 150% of salary deferred intoshares fortwoyears FY16 PSP award subject to performance 150% of salary 150% of salary FY15 bonus for period % of maximum bonus 69% 69% as Executive Director opportunity earned 604,582 533,129 LTIP awards vesting % of maximum June award: 100% June award: 100% in the year award vesting September award: 66.74% September award: 62.50% June and September Number of vested 2,381,198 2,018,730 12 PSP and June 12 shares total granted prior to appointment as CEO COIP REMUNERATION POLICY Looking forward, the Committee will be reviewing the executive remuneration arrangements in 2016 and will be seeking shareholder During the year, we have not made any changes to our shareholder approval in 2017 for a new Policy as well as approval for a new approved Remuneration Policy but continue to monitor market and long-term incentive plan as the current plan is due to expire in 2017. regulatory developments and are comfortable that our Policy remains The Committee is mindful of external market trends and investor appropriate.
We have re-published the approved Remuneration expectations on matters such as further alignment with shareholders Policy on pages 90 to 95 to give context to decisions made by the for example through the use of holding periods, deferral, shareholding Committee during the year.
Our Remuneration Policy is due to be guidelines et cetera as well as the need to ensure that clawback presented to shareholders again at our 2017 AGM.
provisions are in place for incentive plans.
The Committee will consider these matters as part of the 2016 review and we will REFLECTING THE VIEWS OF OUR SHAREHOLDERS continue to engage with our shareholders as part of this process.
At the 2015 AGM, shareholders approved our Directors Remuneration We look forward to receiving your support at the 2016 AGM and Report, as set out in our 2014 Annual Report, with 99.76% support.
This is an encouraging acknowledgement of the Companys progress on performance and our positive, ongoing engagement Finally, I would again like to thank my fellow members of the with shareholders.
Committee and all who have assisted us for their support and guidance during the past year.
We continue to consult with our key shareholders on remuneration matters and during the year have talked to shareholders about WARREN TUCKER performance conditions attaching to our plans, and during the start CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE of FY16 have been sharing our intended approach for FY16 incentives.
