Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report Meetings attended Percentage Annual statement Name of Director scheduled attended Greg Lock Chair 6 6 100% I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the 2015 Dame Helen Alexander 6 6 100% financial year.
Pradeep Kar 6 6 100% Mary McDowell 6 6 100% During 2015 we have delivered good underlying operational performance and we have made notable progress in the ongoing implementation of our Events First strategy.
The proposed disposal of PR Newswire is a key step in consolidating the strategy.
Delivering shareholder value in the year was a key objective for the During the year there were a number of Remuneration arrangements for the management team, and the Board changes within our management team for interim Chairman and Acting CEO believes that the $841m sale price the Remuneration Committee to consider: In recognition of the additional services achieved represents an attractive and time commitment required by Alan At the beginning of 2015, both the valuation for PR Newswire.
In Gillespie, the Committee agreed to an Chairman and the CEO went on medical addition, the Advanstar business increase in his cash fees equivalent to an leave.
During this time Alan Gillespie, performed well during 2015, and ahead additional cash fee of 15,000.
Senior Independent Director, performed of the acquisition business case.
The the role of interim Chairman and Robert integration is on track and $6.1m of In recognition of the increased Gray performed the role of Acting responsibilities and time commitment synergies have been delivered so far, CEO.
I would like to extend my thanks required by Robert Gray as Acting CEO, representing good progress.
to both individuals for their additional the Committee decided that it was contributions during this time During the year the Committee appropriate to temporarily increase his Robert Gray stepped down from the operated a proper and prudent salary to the level of the CEOs salary Board, and his role as CFO, on 31 July for the period he undertook the Acting application of UBMs remuneration and was subsequently appointed as CEO role.
This resulted in an additional policy, acting in all cases in the best CEO of PR Newswire on 1 August.
The Committee also interests of shareholders.
former CFO of UBM, Robert Gray has considered that it was appropriate that deep knowledge of the PR Newswire Roberts bonus opportunity should be business and its people, and has been temporarily increased to the same level involved in the creation of its strategy.
as the CEOs bonus opportunity for the The Board is very pleased that Robert period he was Acting CEO.
agreed to take this new role On 2 September Marina Wyatt joined For the remainder of his time on the Board, the Board as our new CFO.
I would Robert was remunerated as CFO, with his like to welcome Marina on behalf of usual salary level and bonus opportunity.
the Committee As communicated to shareholders in the 2014 report, the additional remuneration Further details of the remuneration paid to Robert for his role as Acting CEO decisions taken in relation to these did not exceed the remuneration package management changes are provided below of the existing CEO, Tim Cobbold, on a and in the annual report on remuneration.
Greg Lock Chairman, Remuneration Committee 64 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Remuneration arrangements for Robert Assessed performance of incentive Determined base salary levels for 2016 Gray upon his departure from the Board awards Tim Cobbold received a salary increase of Robert Gray stepped down from his role as In respect of Executive Director bonuses for 2%, applicable from 1 January 2016, in line CFO and from the Board on 31 July 2015. the year, 74.87% of financial objectives were with other employees.
As Marina Wyatt His entitlement to salary, benefits and achieved.
For the CEO 93% of strategic joined UBM during the year she will not pension contributions under his Directors objectives were met, and for the CFO 97% receive a salary increase for 2016.
Her service contract ceased on this date.
Former CFO, salary will be reviewed in 2017.
Robert did not receive any payments for Robert Gray, achieved 83% of strategic loss of office as a result of his stepping objectives.
This resulted in bonus payments Looking forward down as an Executive Director of UBM plc.
of 79% of maximum bonus for the CEO We are approaching the final year of our resulting in a bonus of 773,768, with 25% shareholder-approved policy and during Robert Gray earned a bonus of 284,548 193,442 deferred into shares and 80% 2016 the Committee will be turning its in respect of the time spent as Executive of maximum bonus for the CFO resulting in attention to refreshing the policy ahead of Director for 2015 with 25% 71,137 a bonus of 142,750 and 25% 35,687 the next binding vote in 2017.
The forfeit in lieu of deferral when he stepped deferred into shares.
Committee is regularly updated on evolving down from the Board, in line with the market practice and developments in Remuneration Policy.
His outstanding Performance share awards, granted in shareholder views and corporate long-term incentives will continue to subsist March 2013, were based on relative governance.
In addition, I will be consulting and will be treated in accordance with the TSR performance.
UBMs TSR did not with major shareholders in 2016 to discuss rules of the relevant plans.
outperform the median of the comparator the evolution of the policy.
index and therefore none of the awards Remuneration arrangements for the will vest in March 2016.
The Committee would like to thank new CFO, Marina Wyatt shareholders for their continued support.
Marina was the outstanding candidate and The Company delivered reported revenue is a great addition to UBMs leadership growth of 30.6% and the adjusted operating team: we are delighted that she has joined margin increased 1.1%pt to 25.2%.
She was appointed on a base salary of Currency fluctuations have positively 450,000.
For 2015 she had a bonus impacted Group results in the year.
EPS opportunity of 120% of salary and a PSP grew 6.0% to 40.5p 2014: 38.2p on a opportunity of 150% of salary, which are reported basis.
both within the limits of the approved policy.
Detail of PR Newswire In order to facilitate Marinas recruitment, At a General Meeting on 7 January 2016, the Committee partially compensated her shareholders overwhelmingly approved the for the value of the bonus and long-term proposed disposal of PR Newswire, the incentives that she forfeited upon joining return of 245m to shareholders and the UBM.
In doing so, the Committee sought share consolidation.
The sale will initially to structure awards on a comparable basis be dilutive to earnings per share.
to those forfeited and to pay no more than necessary to secure her services.
The Consequently, during 2016, the Committee amount of the buy-out was within the limits will consider whether it would be of the approved remuneration policy.
Details appropriate to make any adjustments of the buyout arrangements can be found to the performance targets of the PSP in the annual report on remuneration on awards granted in the years affected.
Such page 76. adjustments are permitted under the existing Remuneration Policy and any amended or substituted target will not be materially more or less difficult to satisfy in line with the rules of the 2014 PSP.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Introduction This remuneration report for the year ended 31 December Section 1 2015 complies with UK governance requirements including the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, The Directors Remuneration the rules of the UK Listing Authority and the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Policy Report The report comprises two sections: Our reward philosophy To provide remuneration that attracts, motivates and retains Section 1 executives with the appropriate skills and talent to deliver UBMs The Directors Remuneration Policy Report, which reproduces the strategy and create long-term shareholder value.
remuneration policy that was approved at the 2014 AGM and has been in use since that date.
No binding vote will be sought for Our reward principles Section 1 since the policy approved by shareholders in 2014 remains in place.
Alignment with UBMs strategy Our short and long-term incentives are primarily based on performance measures which Section 2 are linked to Group and divisional strategic KPIs, to ensure that The Directors Annual Remuneration Report, which sets out details our remuneration policy incentivises and rewards Executive of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year Directors and management to deliver UBMs strategy.
ended 31 December 2015, and how we intend the policy to apply for the year ending 31 December 2016.
The annual bonus will be subject to profit and revenue targets, to encourage profitable growth.
The financial underpin that applies At the AGM in May 2016, section 2 of the report, the Directors to the annual bonus plan, and the malus and clawback provisions Annual Remuneration Report, will be put to an advisory under the bonus and LTIPs, ensure that reward is only provided shareholder vote.
The results of this vote will be disclosed in for robust and sustainable performance.
LTIP awards will be subject to a Return On Average Capital Employed ROACE measure alongside EPS and TSR.
This was to incentivise earnings growth and the maintenance of an efficient and sustainable level of return on capital.
Alignment with shareholders A significant proportion of executives remuneration is performance-based.
The balance of the remuneration package at maximum performance is weighted towards the long term and delivered in UBM shares to ensure that the interests of management are aligned with those of shareholders.
Alignment with the wider Group The reward principles that govern Executive Directors remuneration are aligned with the broader reward philosophy and principles of the Group.
When determining remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee gives consideration to pay and conditions of the wider employee population.
66 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Remuneration policy table Executive Directors The table below reproduces the remuneration policy which was approved at the 2014 AGM and has been in operation since that date.
For convenience, salary information and shareholding guidelines have been updated.
Note that payments may be made under arrangements in place prior to this policy becoming effective pension, other benefits, incentives etc.
Details of how the Committee intends to operate this policy in 2016 can be found on page 81.
Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Supports the recruitment and Reviewed annually.
Any changes While the Committee has not None, although performance of retention of Executive Directors generally apply from January set a maximum level of salary, the individual is taken into account of the calibre required to deliver increases will be set in the by the Committee when setting Paid in cash UBMs strategy context of salary increases and reviewing base salary levels amongst the wider workforce When considering base salary levels, the Committee However, the Committee retains takes a range of factors into the discretion to make increases consideration, including: above this level in certain The skills, experience, circumstances, for example, but not limited to: responsibilities and performance of the individual An increase in the individuals scope and responsibilities Pay at companies of a similar size and complexity to UBM Alignment to the external and pay at media companies market in the FTSE 350 An increase to reflect an Corporate performance individuals performance and development in the role, e. g. Pay increases for our internal where a new appointment employee comparator group is recruited at a lower salary For 2016, salaries will be as level and is awarded stepped follows: increases Tim Cobbold 663,000 2% increase Marina Wyatt 450,000 0% increase Retirement Provides a market-competitive Defined contribution plan or Annual contributions by the No performance measures benefits retirement benefits package, in cash allowance in lieu of pension Company will not exceed 20% line with local market practice contribution.
Set as a percentage of base salary of base salary Level of contribution allowance All of UBMs defined benefit dependent on local market and schemes are closed to new seniority of the individual employees Benefits Provides a competitive benefits Executive Directors receive There is no maximum.
Set at No performance measures package in line with local market private healthcare insurance for a level which the Committee practice the executive and their family, considers is appropriate in the income protection cover and life context of the circumstances assurance benefits of four times of the role individual and local base salary market practice Executive Directors are entitled to The value may vary depending on participate in all-employee plans service provider, cost and market operated by the Company, such conditions as Sharesave Other benefits may be provided if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee, including, but not limited to, housing allowance and relocation allowance UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual Bonus Rewards the achievement of key Measures and targets are set For maximum performance Performance over the relevant financial year is assessed against annual Group financial targets annually in the context of UBMs CEO: 150% of base salary and the delivery of quantifiable strategy the following measures: CFO: 120% of base salary personal and strategic business The Committee determines Financial measures objectives The bonus starts paying out from bonus pay-outs after the financial A profit-based measure 0% of base salary for threshold Compulsory deferral of part of year-end, based on performance performance.
Pay-outs are on A revenue-based measure the bonus into shares under against targets a straight-line basis between the 2014 Deferred Bonus Plan, Non-financial measures The annual bonus is normally threshold and maximum providing a link to creating delivered 75% in cash after the Individual objectives which sustainable long-term value and audited results for that year are may include strategic KPIs, to acting as a retention tool approved based on the annual be agreed on an annual basis The financial underpin that performance targets, and 25% in applies to the annual bonus deferred shares after three years The balance of the measures is weighted towards financial, with plan and the malus and Payment of any bonus is at the clawback provisions under the a minimum weighting of 75% discretion of the Committee and deferred bonus see Operation Details of the measures that subject to the financial underpin opposite, seeks to ensure that whereby no bonus will be paid applied for the 2015 financial poor corporate performance is year are set out in the Annual unless at least 50% of budget recognised and not rewarded operating profit is achieved Remuneration Report on page 74 Unvested Deferred Bonus Plan Measures for following years will be set out in the nonawards are subject to a malus provision which could reduce policy section of the Annual Remuneration Report of the or cancel the award.
Examples of where malus would apply relevant year are a material misstatement of results, material failure of risk management, or serious reputational damage The Committee introduced clawback into the annual bonus from 2015 and the Deferred Bonus Plan for awards granted in respect of 2015 performance onwards.
Examples of where clawback would apply are a material misstatement of results, material failure of risk management or serious reputational damage Awards that vest under the Deferred Bonus Plan will accrue dividends up to the point of vesting 68 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance Incentivises and rewards the Awards are made annually in The range for LTIP awards will Performance is assessed against usually be between 100% and three independently measured Share Plan delivery of UBMs strategy the form of conditional share PSP awards, nil cost options or 200% of base salary for the CEO metrics which are equally Incentivises the creation of longand between 100% and 160% weighted: restricted shares with vesting term shareholder value through dependent upon the achievement of base salary for the CFO, to be EPS the delivery of strong market determined annually, with awards of performance conditions performance, earnings growth Return on capital over three years.
The weighting at the top of the range made only and maintenance of an efficient in exceptional circumstances of measures and targets are Relative TSR performance and sustainable level of return reviewed annually in the context against a comparator group on capital The plan rules allow for awards to of our internal performance or index be made up to 250% of salary in forecasts and external market Delivered in shares to align exceptional circumstances such The Committee may alter the factors executives with shareholders as recruitment of a new Director weighting and targets annually if and helps executives to build a The Committee may amend it determines that it is appropriate significant shareholding in UBM Awards vest as follows: or substitute the performance to do so targets if an exceptional Threshold performance: 25% Assists in the retention of event occurs to cause it to Details of the targets that will of award executives apply for awards granted during determine that an amended or Maximum performance: 100% substituted target would be more 2015 are set out in the Annual of the award Remuneration Report on page 76 appropriate.
Any amended or substituted target would not be Straight-line vesting between Targets for following years materially less difficult to satisfy these levels of performance will be set out in the Annual in line with the rules of the 2014 Remuneration Report of the PSP relevant year Unvested awards will be subject to a malus provision in line with the rules of the 2014 PSP, as described in Annual Bonus above The Committee introduced clawback into the 2014 PSP for awards granted in 2015 and future years.
Examples of where clawback would apply are a material misstatement of results, material failure of risk management, or serious reputational damage Awards that vest will accrue dividends up to the point of vesting Shareholding Aligns executives with Executives have five years Requirement for CEO: 150% of No performance measures guidelines shareholders from December 2012 or from salary appointment, if later to achieve Requirement for CFO: 100% of a net value of shares salary Executives are encouraged to grow their shareholding by holding shares which have been delivered through the Deferred Bonus Plan and the 2014 PSP Committee discretion The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above.
This applies where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes but is not limited to the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Incentive plans which were in operation before 2014 include the Performance Share Plan approved 26 September 2005, the Bonus Investment Plan approved 26 September 2005 and the Executive Share Option Scheme approved 2 June 2008.
Full details of these plans, including the discretions available to the Committee, can be found in the shareholder meeting notices at the time the plans were approved.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration policy table Non-Executive Directors Elements Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Chairman and Provide an appropriate reward to attract and Fees are reviewed periodically There is no defined maximum opportunity.
Non-Executive retain high calibre individuals Fees are set at a level which: The fee structure is as follows: Director fees Reflects the commitment and The Chairman is paid a single, contribution that is expected from the consolidated fee Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors are paid Is appropriately positioned against a basic fee, plus additional fees for comparable roles in companies of a chairmanship of Board Committees and similar size and complexity in the relevant for the Senior Independent Director market and at media companies in the Fees may be paid in cash and or UBM FTSE 350 shares.
Non-Executive Directors do not Actual fee levels are disclosed in the Annual participate in any incentive scheme.
Remuneration Report for the relevant Additional fees may be paid to reflect financial year increased responsibilities on an interim or permanent basis Illustration of executive remuneration policy The scenarios illustrated below do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
The charts have been updated to reflect the implementation of the policy in 2016.
CEO Tim Cobbold CFO Marina Wyatt Maximum Maximum 28% 34% 38% 2.9m 32% 30% 38% 1.8m performance performance On-target On-target 51% 31% 18% 1.6m 56% 27% 17% 1.0m performance performance Fixed pay Fixed pay 100% 0.8m 100% 0.6m 0 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 0.0m 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m Fixed Annual bonus Long-term Fixed Annual bonus Long-term incl.
deferred bonus incentives PSP incl.
deferred bonus incentives PSP Three scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director: Shareholder views and consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Fixed pay below Base salary, benefits and pension The remuneration policy for Executive Directors reflects the reward target performance philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the No bonus payout Group.
The remuneration policy for employees across UBMs No vesting under the PSP global workplace will differ from the policy for executives to reflect On-target Fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension different levels of seniority and local market practice.
performance 50% of maximum bonus opportunity 75% of salary Communication with shareholders for the CEO, 60% of salary for the CFO The Committee maintains an open dialogue with UBM 25% of PSP shares vest at threshold performance shareholders and seeks their views when any significant 42.5% of salary for the CEO, 37.5% of salary for changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
the CFO Consideration of pay and conditions for the wider Group Maximum Fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension The Committee considers pay and employment conditions performance 100% of bonus pays out 150% of salary for the elsewhere in the Group when determining executive pay, to CEO, 120% of salary for the CFO ensure that pay structures are appropriately aligned.
The 100% of PSP shares vest 170% of base salary for Committee also considers base pay movements of the allthe CEO, 150% of salary for the CFO employee population when determining base salaries for Executive Directors.
70 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Recruitment remuneration arrangements Executive Director service contracts When recruiting an Executive Director, the Committee will normally The current Executive Directors have service contracts which may seek to align the remuneration package offered with the be terminated by the Company for breach by the executive or by remuneration policy.
However, the Committee retains the discretion either the Company or executive giving 12 months notice.
to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the limits and structure of the standard policy to meet individual circumstances.
Service contracts for new Executive Directors will generally be An example of this might include, but not be limited to, payment of limited to 12 months notice.
However, the Committee may agree Directors on a short-term contractual basis e. g. if an interim a longer period, of up to 24 months initially, reducing by one month Director is recruited on a short-term basis or the Chairman is for every month served until it falls to 12 months.
required to take on an executive function on a short-term basis, the Committee may decide to pay a contractual fee rather than a base Terms and conditions for Non-Executive Directors salary which, if pro-rated per annum, exceeds the limit set out in Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the the policy above.
recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
The appointment of Non-Executive Directors is for a fixed term of three years, during The Committee has the discretion to change the performance which period the appointment may be terminated by the Board on measures and or targets used under the annual bonus and or notice, ranging from three to six months.
There are no provisions long-term incentive plan if it determines that the circumstances on payment for early termination in their letters of appointment.
of the recruitment merit such alteration.
Each Non-Executive Directors appointment including that of the The rationale for any changes from the policy in operation will be Chairman is reviewed every three years.
In accordance with the clearly explained in the report in respect of that year.
UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors are required to stand annually for re-election.
Accordingly, all Directors were re-elected The Committee will take into consideration any relevant factors at the 2015 AGM.
when determining the remuneration arrangements for a new Executive Director.
Factors may include the calibre and experience The letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors and service of the individual: local market practice in the individuals current contracts of Executive Directors are available for inspection at location: the individuals remuneration arrangements: the UBMs registered office during normal business hours and will be remuneration arrangements for other executives: and business available at the AGM.
We seek to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders, and seek External appointments not to pay more than is necessary.
The Company considers that permitting Executive Directors to hold office as a Non-Executive Director of another company will benefit The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new UBM by increasing their knowledge and experience.
The policy Executive Directors in the year of recruitment would normally be in allows Executive Directors to accept not more than one outside line with the maximum level of variable pay that may be awarded corporate directorship, subject to Board approval.
Directors are under the annual bonus plan and 2014 PSP as described in the entitled to retain the fees earned.
policy, and, in any circumstances, the maximum level of annual variable pay that may be awarded excluding buyout awards will Loss of office payments not exceed 400% of base salary, in line with the policy maximum Salary fees and benefits set out in the policy table.
Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary.
The Committee The remuneration package offered to new Executive Directors may may, in its discretion, make payments in addition to salary, in include buyout remuneration forfeited by the new employee on respect of any contractual benefits including retirement benefits, leaving their former employment, and other remuneration apportioned for the length of the notice period, subject to components included in the remuneration policy e. g. base salary mitigation if alternative employment is taken up.
fees, pension, benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentives.
Annual bonus Buyouts Executive Directors may be eligible to receive a bonus payment in The Committee will take account of relevant factors including respect of the financial year of cessation: however, there is no performance conditions attached to awards, the form in which they contractual entitlement to a bonus.
In determining eligibility for a were granted e. g. cash or equity awards and the time frame of bonus, consideration will generally be given to the circumstances awards.
Buyout awards will generally be structured on a of the cessation including details of future employment and comparable basis to awards forfeited.
performance during the year of cessation.
The Committee may rely on exemption 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules Where a bonus payment is made, it will generally be on a pro-rata which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional basis for the period served during the year of cessation based on circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
Awards made using an assessment of performance.
For a bonus earned in respect of this exception would apply to buy-outs only and would be the year in which the executive leaves, the executive will forfeit 25% structured to follow similar principles as awards under the 2014 of bonus which would ordinarily have been deferred into shares.
Awards made using this exception will not exceed the variable pay limit set out above.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
The Committee will determine when awards vest and the period during which awards Section 2 may be exercised.
Deferred Bonus Plan Awards made under the 2014 Deferred Bonus Plan will generally lapse if the Executive Director leaves employment before the end of the vesting period, unless they Directors Annual are considered to be an approved leaver.
In such circumstances vesting will not normally be accelerated unless Remuneration Report the Committee determines that awards should vest on the date the Director leaves.
Committee roles and advisers 2014 PSP Awards made under the 2014 PSP will generally The following Directors were members of the Committee during lapse if the Executive Director leaves employment before the 2015: end of the vesting period, unless they are considered to be an Greg Lock Chairman approved leaver.
To the extent that awards do not lapse, Dame Helen Alexander awards would normally vest on the normal vesting date except in the case of death, where awards would normally vest as soon Pradeep Kar as reasonably practical unless the Committee determines that Mary McDowell awards vest on cessation.
Awards vest taking into account the extent to which any applicable performance conditions are The Committee was advised by the Company Secretary, who is satisfied and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, secretary to the Committee, the Group Head of Reward and the the period of time that has elapsed since grant.
No individual is to participate in matters Approved Leaver is limited to individuals leaving by reason directly concerning their own remuneration.
The Committees of death, injury, disability, ill health, the participants employing terms of reference provide further details of its role and company ceasing to be part of the Group or in such other responsibilities and are available on the Companys website.
circumstance as the Committee determines except where Greg Lock is also a member of the Audit Committee.
Activities of the Committee Corporate events The Committee met six times during the year, and its main Change of control activities were as follows: 2014 PSP The rules of the 2014 PSP provide that in the event of Set remuneration for the Acting CEO, the new CFO and the a change of control, awards would normally vest at the time of the interim Chairman event taking into account the extent to which any applicable Reviewed 2014 Executive Directors performance and performance conditions are satisfied and, unless the Committee determined the annual bonus outcomes determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since Measured performance for the BIP matching awards and PSP grant.
awards which were due to vest in March 2015 Deferred Bonus Plan Awards under the 2014 Deferred Bonus Finalised 2015 objectives and set preliminary 2016 objectives Plan will normally vest in full upon a change of control.
for the Executive Directors annual bonuses Granted 2015 awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan and PSP The Committee may permit participants to exchange 2014 PSP or Reviewed management plans for remuneration for belowDeferred Bonus Plan awards for awards in shares of the acquiring Board employees company.
During the year, Deloitte advised the Committee on developments Other corporate events in market practice and corporate governance and on institutional If other corporate events occur such as a winding-up of the investor views.
Deloitte also conducted TSR performance Company, demerger, delisting, special dividend or any other event valuations for outstanding PSP awards.
Deloitte was appointed which, in the opinion of the Committee, may affect the current or by the Remuneration Committee.
Deloitte is a founding member future value of the awards the Committee may determine whether, of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code and to what extent, awards held under the 2014 PSP and or 2014 in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deferred Bonus Plan will vest.
In the case of the 2014 PSP, taking into account the extent to which applicable performance conditions During the year, Deloitte have provided systems advisory and have been satisfied and, unless the Committee determines implementation services and advisory services in relation to the otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed since grant.
Awards held under all-employee plans would normally be expected The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received has to vest on a change of control and those which have to meet been objective and independent.
Total fees for advice provided to specific requirements to benefit from permitted tax benefits would the Committee during the year amount to 75,418. vest in accordance with those requirements.
For each of the above events, the treatment of unvested awards granted under the former long-term incentive plans, the PSP, Bonus Investment Plan BIP and Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS, will be in line with the rules of each plan.
72 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Single figure for total remuneration audited The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for Directors for the financial years ending 31 December 2014 and 2015.
His salary figure includes 30,000 for his time as interim CEO, and 21,798 relating to holiday pay for 11.5 days which he was entitled to but unable to take.
This fee was calculated as the difference between the fee for Non-Executive Chairman and the salary for the Chief Executive, and then pro-rated to take account of the time spent as Executive Chairman.
Dame Helen Alexander received no variable performance based pay 2 Alan Gillespies 2015 figure includes an additional fee of 15,000 for his time as interim Chairman during the course of 2015 3 Jonathan Newcomb stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2015 4 John McConnell was appointed to the Board on 27 January 2014 5 Mary McDowell was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2014 6 Taxable benefits for the Non-Executive Directors relate to travel and accommodation costs for UBM Board meetings at the Corporate Headquarters.
The number relates to the benefits received in the 2014 and 2015 tax years respectively.
2014 has been restated to include the relevant amount Additional notes to the single figure for total remuneration audited Benefits For Tim Cobbold benefits include: Private health insurance of 2,248, life cover four times base salary of 4,603, private transport required on medical grounds of 27,260 and income protection cover of 4,440.
For Robert Gray benefits include: Private health insurance of 16,821, life cover four times base salary of 1,595, tax advice of 7,900 and income protection cover of 1,955.
This figure also includes relocation costs relating to Roberts relocation to New York and travel costs relating to travel to and from the UK to fulfil his Board duties totalling 162,540.
For Marina Wyatt benefits include: Private health insurance of 654, life cover four times base salary of 445, and income protection cover of 1,019.
Pension The CEO and CFO received their pension contributions as a cash allowance of 20% of base salary.
Recruitment awards The recruitment awards for Marina Wyatt consists of a payment of accrued bonus of 135,907 and a share award with a value of 242,000.
The equity award mirrors the terms of the award which was forfeited by Marina on joining UBM, and requires her continued employment until May 2017.
Further details of the recruitment award, including her 2015 LTIP grant, are provided on page 75.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Bonus performance measures for 2015 paid in 2016 The table below sets out performance against the 2015 bonus.
Metric Actual weighting achieved Performance targets Actual as % of as % of Threshold Maximum performance maximum maximum Financial objectives Earnings per share 36.1p 39.9p 39.0p 25% 19.1% Operating profit margin % 23.5% 25.9% 26.0% 25% 25.0% Revenue of 1m events 494m 546.6m 519.5m 25% 12.0% Financial objectives Total 75% 56.1% Metric Actual achieved as % of metric weighting as % of maximum CEO CFO Former CFO Financial objectives Total 75% 56.1% 56.1% 56.1% Personal objectives Total 25% 23.3% 24.2% 20.8% Total as a % of maximum bonus 79.4% 80.2% 76.9% Total as % of salary 119.0% 96.3% 98.9% Total value 000 774 143 285 Personal objectives for the CEO were measured against Advanstar performance against the business case and integration synergies being achieved: maximising shareholder value in respect of PR Newswire: and executing the 2015 operational strategy.
The Committee determined that the objective for Advanstar and PR Newswire were met in full: and that the execution of the 2015 strategy was met in part, with 80% being paid against this element.
Personal objectives for the CFO were measured against maximising shareholder value in respect of PR Newswire: integration of Advanstar to UBMs technology and management reporting system: and development of the finance function.
The Committee determined that the PR Newswire objective, which was shared with the CEO, was met in full: the integration of Advanstar was met in full: and the development of the finance function was met in part, with 90% being paid against this element.
Personal objectives for the former CFO were measured against Advanstar performance against the business case and integration synergies being achieved: maximising shareholder value in respect of PR Newswire: and executing the 2015 operational strategy.
The Committee determined that the objective for Advanstar performance and the PR Newswire objective, both of which were shared with the CEO, were met in full, while the execution of the strategy was met in part, with 50% being paid against this element.
Adjustments to bonus targets have been made on the basis of continuing Group operations, consistent with how the Company reports in the income statement on page 94 and constant currency to recognise underlying performance.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining bonus pay-outs.
25% of the bonus paid for this period will be deferred into shares for three years under the Deferred Bonus Plan in March 2016.
This amounts to 193,442 for the CEO and 35,687 for the CFO.
Marina Wyatt, the CFO, joined the Company on 2 September.
Her bonus payment therefore reflects the four-month period she was employed by the Company.
Robert Gray left the Board on 31 July 2015 and the bonus paid in relation to his role as CFO was pro-rated to reflect this seven-month period.
Robert was not entitled to receive the 25% of his bonus payable in shares in accordance with the terms of the policy and this portion amounting to 71,137 was forfeited in lieu of deferral.
74 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements LTIPs due to vest in 2016 in respect of the performance period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 PSP Aggregate shares PSP value of granted in shares LTIPs 2013 vesting vesting Tim Cobbold 1 Robert Gray 124,499 0 0 Marina Wyatt 1 Robert Gray stepped down from the Board on 31 July 2015 No awards for the current CEO, Tim Cobbold, or current CFO, Marina Wyatt, were due to vest during the performance period ending 31 December 2015 as they were not with the Company when these awards were made in 2013.
In accordance with the terms of the plans, Robert Grays outstanding share awards will continue in full until the original vesting dates and will remain subject to achieving the relevant performance conditions.
BIP matching awards were based on Group adjusted EPS performance.
No matching shares would vest for EPS growth of 5% per annum RPI or less with 100% vesting for EPS growth of at least 9% per annum RPI straight-line vesting between these points.
UBMs Group-adjusted EPS growth over the period was below 5% per annum RPI meaning that none of the awards will vest.
The PSP awards for the performance period 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 were based on relative TSR performance.
Full vesting is achieved if UBMs relative TSR performance outperformed that of the median of the peer group by 10% per annum.
None of the award would vest for performance less than the median of the peer group, while 25% of shares would vest if UBMs TSR performance was in line with the median of the peer group.
UBMs TSR did not reach the median of the group, meaning that none of the awards will vest.
The PSP peer group consisted of: Aegis Group: APN News & Media: Axel Springer: DMGT: Euromoney: Global Sources: IHS: Informa: Lagardere: McGraw-Hill: Pearson: RELX: Tech Target: Thomson Reuters: Web MD: Wolters Kluwer: WPP.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee in respect of the vesting of awards.
LTIPs granted during 2015 audited The table below sets out details of the LTIP awards made under the PSP during 2015.
Number % of shares 1 of shares Face value vesting for Performance 1 awarded Performance % of base Face value threshold measurement Executive Director during 2015 Type of award conditions salary performance period Tim Cobbold 2015 LTIP award 201,532 Nil-cost option 1 3 EPS growth 170% 1,105,000 25% 1 3 ROACE Robert Gray 2015 LTIP award 134,822 Conditional Share 150% 739,229 25% 1 3 Relative TSR 1 January 2015 to Marina Wyatt 2015 LTIP award 138,683 Nil-cost option growth 150% 674,998 25% 31 December 2017 See below for Marina Wyatt Buy-out award 64,718 Nil-cost option 70% 314,995 25% full detail on performance targets 1 Face value was calculated using the five-day average share price prior to grant 548.3p for awards to Tim Cobbold and Robert Gray made on 6 March 2015, and 486.72p for awards made to Marina Wyatt on 2 September 2015 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued The table below sets out the performance measures and targets that apply to the PSP awards granted in 2015: Earnings Per Share Performance metrics EPS growth in excess of 9% p. a.
25% vesting: EPS growth between 5% and 9% p. a. vesting calculated on a straight-line basis, EPS growth below 5% p. a.
0% vesting Methodology UBMs Events business has a number of biennial shows, with odd-year biennials significantly larger and more profitable than evenyear biennials.
The profit contribution from the odd-year biennials leads to an annual distortion in the reported growth rate and profitability of the Events business and an increase in EPS in odd years To give a fairer reflection of underlying performance, a two-year average of Group adjusted undiluted EPS of odd and even years will be applied, with the two-year average prior to the performance period used as the base year, and the two-year average at the end of the performance period used to determine growth For PSP awards made in 2015 with a three-year performance period of 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017 the two-year average for the base year is based on EPS for 2013 and 2014 adjusted for the rights issue, i. e. 40.65p, and the two-year average at the end will be based on EPS for 2016 and 2017 Return On Average Capital Employed Performance metrics The target is the weighted average of the following: 1.
E xisting capital Returns on existing capital i. e. ROACE at the start of the performance period must maintain or exceed current levels by the end of the three-year period.
Target is to maintain ROACE at 18.8% with a stretch to 19.8%, with straight-line vesting in between 2.
New investments Acquisitions should achieve a minimum average return of 10% p. a. during the three-year performance period.
For the sake of simplicity, any capital invested during the three-year performance period will be regarded as new investment Relative Total Shareholder Return Performance metrics UBMs TSR to outperform, over a three-year period, the TSR of the FTSE 250 general industry index excluding Investment Trusts Outperform median of the FTSE 250 by 10% p. a.
100% vesting: Median 25% vesting: In between these positions vesting calculated on a straight-line basis: Below median zero vesting Listing Rule 9.4.
2 award made to Marina Wyatt As announced on 2 September 2015, an award of 49,720 Ordinary shares was made to Marina Wyatt to replace the value of deferred share awards that were forfeited on leaving her previous employer.
This award is subject to continued employment only mirroring the terms of the forfeit award and has been made under an arrangement to which Listing Rule 9.4.
Number % of shares 1 of shares Face value vesting for Performance 1 awarded % of base Face value threshold measurement Executive Director during 2015 Type of award Performance conditions salary performance period Marina Wyatt 9.4.
2 award 49,720 Nil-cost option No performance 54% 241,997 n a n a conditions.
Requires continued employment until May 2017 1 Face value calculated using the five-day average share price prior to grant 486.72p Remuneration arrangements for Marina Wyatt Marina Wyatt was appointed CFO on 2 September 2015.
Her base salary on appointment was 450,000 and her benefits and pension allowance were set in line with the remuneration policy.
For 2015 she had a bonus opportunity of 120% of salary and a PSP opportunity of 150% of salary, which are both within the limits of the approved policy.
In order to facilitate Marinas recruitment, the Committee partially compensated her for the value of the bonus and long-term incentives that she forfeited upon leaving her role at TomTom NV and joining UBM.
In doing so, the Committee sought to structure awards on a comparable basis to those forfeited and to pay no more than necessary to secure her services.
The amount and structure of the buyout was within the limits of the approved remuneration policy.
Details of her buyout awards, granted on 2 September 2015, are as follows: 64,718 shares under the PSP with a value of c. 70% salary.
The performance conditions and performance measurement period of this award will mirror the 2015 PSP award that was granted to Marina as part of the Companys usual annual grant policy.
This award replaced the expected value based on an assessment of performance of an outstanding long-term incentive award forfeited by Marina upon leaving her role at TomTom NV.
: and 49,720 shares, granted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 with a value of c. 54% of salary.
These awards vest based on continued employment to 13 May 2017.
These awards replaced an outstanding deferred bonus award subject to continued employment that was forfeited by Marina upon leaving her role at TomTom NV.
Marina also received a cash payment of 135,907 to compensate her for the expected value of her forfeited 2015 cash bonus, pro-rated for the time prior to her joining UBM.
76 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Interim appointments Interim Chairman and Acting CEO Between 7 January 2015 and 18 February 2015 Alan Gillespie, Senior Independent Director, performed the role of interim Chairman while Dame Helen Alexander took medical leave.
He also provided additional services during the year supporting the Chairman.
In recognition of the additional services and time commitment performed by Alan, it was considered appropriate to pay him an additional fee of 15,000 for 2015.
Between 7 January 2015 and 9 March 2015 Robert Gray, CFO, performed the role of Acting CEO.
In recognition of the increased responsibilities and time commitment required by Robert Gray as Acting CEO, the Committee decided that it was appropriate to temporarily increase his salary to the level of the CEOs salary for the period he undertook the acting CEO role.
This resulted in an additional payment of 30,000.
The Committee also considered that it was appropriate that Roberts bonus opportunity should be temporarily increased to the same level as the CEOs bonus opportunity for the period he was acting CEO however, it was agreed that this temporary increase in bonus opportunity to 150% of base salary was to be calculated based on his CFO salary, rather than the temporarily increased salary.
For the remainder of his time on the Board, Robert was remunerated as CFO, with his usual salary level and bonus opportunity.
As communicated to shareholders in the 2014 report, the additional remuneration paid to Robert for his role as Acting CEO did not exceed the remuneration package of the existing CEO, Tim Cobbold, on a pro-rata basis.
Arrangements for Robert Gray upon stepping down from the Board Robert Gray stepped down from the Board and his role as CFO on 31 July 2015 and was subsequently appointed as CEO of PR Newswire on 1 August 2015.
His entitlement to salary, benefits and pension contributions under his Directors service contract in respect of the CFO role ceased on this date.
Robert did not receive any payments for loss of office as a result of his stepping down as an Executive Director of UBM plc.
Robert received a bonus of 284,548 for his service as a Director of the Company in 2015: this was based on performance and time pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the 2015 financial year that he served as an Executive Director.
Robert was not entitled to receive the 25% of his bonus deferred into shares in accordance with the terms of his plan.
His remaining outstanding long-term incentives will continue to subsist and will be treated in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans.
Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made in 2015.
All payments to Robert Gray made in 2015 with reference to his service as a Director of UBM are disclosed in the single figure for total remuneration table on page 73.
Loss of office payments audited No payments were made in 2015.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited The Executive Directors have five years from appointment to meet the guidelines.
LTIP awards Unvested Unvested awards, Unvested Shares awards, subject to options, Vested Shareholding Current owned subject to continuted subject to awards, not requirement % of shareholding Date to meet Requirement 1 Director outright performance employment performance exercised salary % of salary requirement met Tim Cobbold 10,207 481,847 24,253 150% of base salary 8% 6 May 2019 No Marina Wyatt 4,000 203,401 49,720 100% of base salary 5% 1 September 2020 No Robert Gray 31,505 400,649 83,368 100% of base salary 33.6% n a n a 1 Includes dividend shares of 6,701 for Robert Gray and 936 for Tim Cobbold.
Total interests in shares audited The table below sets out the Directors current interests in UBM shares all of which are beneficial shown as at 31 December 2015 or date of leaving if earlier.
Bonus Ordinary Deferral 1 shares at 31 shares at 31 December December 2015 2015 Executive Directors Tim Cobbold 10,207 24,253 Marina Wyatt 4,000 0 Robert Gray 31,505 83,368 Non-Executive Directors Dame Helen Alexander 58,834 Alan Gillespie 20,703 Pradeep Kar 24,715 Greg Lock 32,389 Terry Neill 50,246 Jonathon Newcomb 26,290 John McConnell 3,741 Mary McDowell 2,285 1 The Bonus Deferral shares represent interests in shares acquired by Tim Cobbold, Marina Wyatt and Robert Gray through the surrender of cash bonuses.
These interests are also shown as BIP Bonus Options and Deferred Bonus Plan awards in the Scheme interests table on page 78 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Scheme interests The table below shows details of outstanding awards held by Executive Directors, including awards granted in 2015 under the Groups long-term incentive plans.
All awards were subject to the achievement of performance conditions which were set at grant except for the deferred bonus shares Deferred Bonus Plan and BIP Bonus Options which were awarded based on the achievement of annual performance conditions and vest subject to continued employment only.
Marina Wyatt is a Non-Executive Director of Shanks Group plc in the UK, receiving fees of 15,478 during the period of time she was a UBM Director and a member of the Supervisory Board of Lucas Bols NV in The Netherlands receiving fees of 9,945 during the period of time she was a UBM Director.
While the UBM policy is for not more than one external appointment to be held by an Executive Director, both roles were held by Marina at the time of her recruitment, and the Board therefore considered it was appropriate that she continued in these roles.
The Board will keep this position under review but given the relative size of the companies and time commitment required, it is comfortable that this does not impact on Marinas ability to properly carry out her UBM role.
Robert Gray is an independent Non-Executive Director and Vice-Chairman of eDreams Odiego, and received fees of 36,511 during the period of time he was a Director at UBM.
78 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Historic executive pay and Company performance TSR performance and CEO remuneration outcomes The graph below compares the TSR of UBM and the FTSE 250 Index.
The FTSE 250 Index is the comparator group for the 2015 PSP award and is therefore considered by the Committee to be the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Group should be compared to.
TSR Performance 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 FTSE 250 UBM Historic CEO pay outcomes The table below summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-out and LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current year and previous six years.
FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015 CEO single figure of remuneration 1,593,146 1,903,046 1,672,558 3,936,448 1,596,962 1,219,088 1,592,319 Annual bonus pay-out as % maximum opportunity 73.6% 93.2% 87.7% 89.7% 93.3% 80.0% 79.4% Long-term incentive vesting as % maximum opportunity 11.3% 16.4% 0% 86.9% 0% n a n a Change in remuneration of the CEO compared to UBM employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the CEO and that of the comparator group selected by the Committee.
The employee sub-set is made up of UK-based head office employees and senior managers.
It has been selected because it represents a wide variety of roles, responsibilities and pay levels and because these employees are also subject to the same cost of living standards and income tax regime as the CEO.
During 2015, the cost of providing private medical insurance to employees fell.
The value of the benefit to employees was not changed.
For medical reasons, during 2015 the CEO was provided with private transport to and from his place of work.
This is not an ongoing benefit.
2014 to 2015 % change in benefits % change in excluding % change in 1 base salary pension bonus CEO 0% 152.7% -0.5% UK employees 3.4% -5.8% -1.8% For simplicity, the CEO % change is based on an annualised package for Tim Cobbold in 2014.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Governance Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Relative spend on pay The chart below shows the actual expenditure on pay for all employees compared with profit after tax and distributions to shareholders for 2014 and 2015.
Relative spend on pay m 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 profit after tax Distributions to All employee pay from continuing operations shareholders 2014 2015 The information shown in this chart in based on the following: Profit after tax from continuing operations Taken from the Group consolidated income statement see page 94 Distribution to shareholders Total dividends see page 129 Total employee pay Total employment costs see page 137, including: wages and salaries, social security costs, pension and share-based payments note 7.3 Statement of shareholding voting The table below sets out the results of the vote on the 2014 Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM: Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Number % Number % Number Annual Report on Remuneration 309,662,425 99.29% 2,227,111 0.71% 187,693 Votes withheld have been excluded from the percentage calculations.
80 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year The following tables set out the key details of each element of the remuneration policy to be in operation during the financial year ending 31 December 2016.
Executive Directors Component Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance targets Base Salary Tim Cobbold: 663,000 2% increase n a n a Marina Wyatt: 450,000 0% change Any increases are effective from 1 January 2016 Pension Level of contribution allowance n a n a dependent on local market and seniority of the individual 20% pension allowance or contribution to DC pension plan Benefits Executive Directors receive n a n a healthcare, income protection and life assurance benefits Annual bonus For maximum performance: The bonus in 2016 will be based on the The actual target range will be disclosed following measures: retrospectively in next years Directors Tim Cobbold: 150% of salary Remuneration Report 75% Financial targets Marina Wyatt: 120% of salary 25% Adjusted EPS None of the bonus pays out for performance below threshold 25% Operating profit margin 95% of target 25% Revenue of 1m events 25% Personal objectives Performance Tim Cobbold: The quantum of the PSP No change to performance measures EPS growth of 5% p. a.
25% vesting Share Plan award will be 170% of base salary for 2016.
Performance will be assessed EPS growth of 9% p. a.
100% vesting against three independent, equally Marina Wyatt: The quantum of the PSP ROACE weighted average of: weighted, metrics: award will be 150% of base salary 1.
E xisiting capital One-third EPS Awards vest as follows: 2.
New investments New aquisitions should One-third ROACE achieve 10% p. a. minimum average return Threshold performance: 25% of the One-third relative TSR performance award Relative TSR growth at median of FTSE 250 25% vesting Maximum performance: 100% of the Relative TSR growth outperforms median of award FTSE 250 by 10% 100% vesting Straight-line vesting between these levels of performance Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors fees are paid partly in cash and partly in UBM shares.
Cash fees are paid monthly in arrears.
The share-based element is satisfied by the delivery of shares six-monthly in arrears.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Senior Independent Director receive additional fees.
The current fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are shown below.
These will be reviewed during 2016.
Cash Shares Chairman 155,000 120,000 Non-Executive Director 40,000 18,000 Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman 12,000 Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman 12,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 10,000 By order of the Board Greg Lock Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 February 2016 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial Share capital statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital are set out in Note 5.8 on page 129.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47 contains information relating As at 31 December 2015, the Company held a valid authority from to the performance of the Companys business during the financial shareholders to make market purchases of up to 44,268,316 year, the position of the Company at the end of the year and likely Ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued Ordinary share future developments.
capital as at 13 March 2015 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the 2015 AGM Notice.
The Company did not Results for the year and dividends repurchase any Ordinary shares during the year.
The results for the year are set out in the Group consolidated income statement on page 94.
The balance to be transferred to As at 31 December 2015, the Company held valid authorities from reserves is 107.7m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of shareholders to allot Ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 16.3p per share for the year ended 31 December 2015 to be paid 14,756,105 representing one third of the issued Ordinary share on 27 May 2016 to those shareholders on the register on 29 April capital as at 13 March 2015 being the latest practicable date prior to 2016.
An interim dividend of 5.3p per share was paid on 9 October the publication of the notice of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
During the year, shares with an aggregate nominal value of 32,502 were allotted on the exercise of share options under the Companys Directors and their interests employee share plans.
Biographical details of the Directors in office as at 24 February 2016 are set out on pages 48 to 49 and are incorporated into this These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the Annual report by reference.
The following Directors held office during General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2016.
Resolutions to renew the year: them will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
Dame Helen Alexander, Tim Cobbold, Alan Gillespie, Robert Gray, The holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Pradeep Kar, Greg Lock, John McConnell, Mary McDowell, Terry Companys annual reports, to attend and speak at Company Neill, Jonathan Newcomb and Marina Wyatt.
general meetings, including AGMs, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Marina Wyatt was appointed on 2 September 2015.
Robert Gray and Jonathan Newcomb ceased to be a Director on 31 July 2015 Employee share plans and 31 December 2015 respectively.
The Company operates a number of all-employee and discretionary share plans.
The Sharesave scheme allows all eligible Trynka Shineman will be appointed to the Board on 1 March 2016. employees around the Group to use the proceeds of a related SAYE contract to acquire options over Ordinary shares of the In accordance with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Company at a discount of up to 20% on their market price.
Code all current Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Tim Cobbold and Marina Wyatt each have a service contract which is subject to 12 months notice on either side.
Dame Helen Alexander has a contract for services which is subject to six months notice from either party.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have a service contract and all are considered by the Company to be independent.
The interests of the Directors in office at 24 February 2016 in the shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 77.
No Director had a material interest in any contract other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary at any time during the year.
82 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 So far as each Director of the Board is aware, there is no relevant Each of the Directors at the date of this report, whose names and audit information of which the Companys external auditor is functions are listed on pages 48 to 49 confirm that, to the best of unaware, and each Director has taken all steps necessary as a their knowledge: Director in order to make himself herself aware of, and to establish the Group financial statements in this report, which have been that the external auditor is aware of, any relevant audit information.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law Standards Board IASB and the International Financial and regulations.
Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, and the Company financial statements in this Report, which have The Companies Jersey Law 1991 Law requires the Directors been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting to prepare financial statements for each financial period in standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, accordance with generally accepted accounting principles financial position and result of the Company and the prescribed for the purposes of the Law for market traded undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: companies.
The financial statements of the Company are required and by law to give a true and fair view of, or be presented fairly in all the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47 includes a fair review of material respects so as to show the state of affairs of the Company the development and performance of the business and the at the end of the period covered by the accounts and of the profit position of the Company and the undertakings included in the or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of statements, the Directors should: the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently External substantial shareholdings make judgements and estimates that are reasonable As at 31 December 2015 the Company had been notified of the following significant interests in voting rights in its Ordinary share specify which generally accepted accounting principles have capital in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure Rules been followed in their preparation and Transparency Rules: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis % of share unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Shareholder name capital continue in business Allianz Global Investors GmBH 5.08 Standard Life Investments Limited 4.98 The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and are such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy There were no additional notifications subsequent to the end of the at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them financial year up to 24 February 2016. to ensure that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Political donations They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group The Group made no political donations during 2015 2014: nil.
and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at The Goldsmiths Centre, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of 42 Britton Street, Clerkenwell, London EC1M 5AD on Wednesday, the corporate and financial information included on the Companys 18 May 2016 at 2:30 pm.
A letter from the Chairman and the Notice website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and of Meeting, containing a description of the business to be transacted, dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in is available on the Companys website at www.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution for their reappointment and remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Governance Report Directors Report continued Takeover directive Change of control The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended The Company is party to change of control provisions in its by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
principal financing agreements as follows: Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Under the Companys Articles of The 250 million 6.50% bonds due in November 2016 contain Association, at each AGM, any Director then in office who has provisions which are triggered on a change of control of the been appointed by the Board since the previous AGM and any Company.
The holders of such bonds have the right to repayment Director who at the date of the notice convening the meeting had at par if the Company is non-investment grade at the time of the held office for more than 30 months since they were last appointed change of control or becomes non-investment grade within 120 or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting, shall retire days of the announcement of the change of control provided the from office but are eligible for reappointment.
Notwithstanding the change in rating is related to the change in control.
provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, in accordance with the Code, Directors will submit themselves annually for The $350 million 5.75% bonds due in November 2020 contain re-election at the AGM.
Non-Executive Directors appointments are provisions which are triggered on a change of control of the reviewed every three years.
The holders of such bonds have the right to repayment at 101% of par if the Company is non-investment grade on any day There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the during the period commencing 60 days prior to the first public Company other than: announcement of any change of control or pending change of control and ending 60 days following the consummation of such Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws change of control provided the change in rating is related to the and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market change in control.
requirements relating to close periods : and Restrictions in the FCAs Listing Rules whereby certain In addition the Group has a Revolving Credit Facility of 400m due employees of the Company require approval to deal in the in April 2020 which includes provisions which are triggered on a Companys securities.
change of control of the Company giving each bank the right to repayment of borrowings and reduction in commitment to zero.
None of the Companys shares carries any special rights with respect to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors the voting rights attaching to the Ordinary shares.
There are no or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or arrangements of which the Directors are aware under which employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
shares and no known agreements or restrictions on share transfers or voting rights.
Greenhouse gas emissions We have reported on all the emission sources required under the Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans rank Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
These sources fall within our consolidated Company operates an employee benefit trust ESOP Trust, with an financial statement and therefore includes PR Newswire emissions.
independent trustee, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys share schemes and plans.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not On 31 December 2015, the ESOP Trust held 1,528,707 Ordinary included in our consolidated statement.
The ESOP Trust waives its dividend entitlement and abstains from voting at general meetings.
Methodology We have followed the 2013 UK Government Environmental Reporting Guidance and used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition published by WBCSD & WRI the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute.
Emission factors were US eGRID 2009 and the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting in association with Carbon Smart expiry 31 May 2016.
The reported emissions also form part of our submission for the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
84 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements External assurance statement Base year Our carbon disclosure has been assured against CDP approved 2010 was set as the base year, as this was the first time carbon verification standard AA1000, by Trucost plc for the last four years.
emissions were reported globally with reliable data and it was To see the most recent assurance statement, please refer to our typical in respect of operations.
Base year recalculation policy Materiality The baseline recalculation policy is reviewed annually and takes UBM conducted a materiality assessment during 2015, and now into account any significant business change above a 5% threshold reports on all aspects deemed as material, which includes energy and or developments in climate change or carbon management usage and material usage at our events.
For example, the disposal of PR Newswire at the end of 2015 means that going forward the baseline will be reset and Organisational boundary recalculated to exclude PR Newswire.
The organisational boundary is determined by the operational control approach.
UBM has operational control over all office Other information buildings owned and leased by UBM, including event space Other information relevant to and forming part of the leased, but does not have control over sub-let space and Directors Report is to be found in the following sections non-UBM tenant emissions.
of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Operational scopes Strategic Report We have measured our scope 1, scope 2 and certain Strategy pages 2 to 32 scope 3 emissions.
Risk management pages 33 to 37 These carbon emissions are calculated for all Global UBM Operating and Financial Review pages 38 to 47 offices and events, where data is available Governance Corporate Governance Statement pages 52 to 59 Assumptions and estimations Nominations Committee page 60 Assumptions are kept to a minimum.
Due to the materiality Audit Committee pages 61 to 63 assessment carried out in 2015, carbon emissions from employee Treasury Policy Financial Review page 44 commuter travel were not deemed as material and therefore these Section 5 of the Financial Statements pages 120 to 130 were not calculated for 2015.
Instead commuter travel emissions Going Concern page 47 were estimated based on 2014 average emissions per head and upscaled for 2015 headcount.
In addition, where business travel emissions were missing for offices not yet included in the global The Directors Report of UBM plc for the year ended 31 December software, these were scaled up using the 2015 average per head.
2015 comprises pages 82 to 85 of this Annual Report and the The percentage of data collected has been recorded for each other sections listed above, which are incorporated into the source of emissions and is detailed in the following table.
Measure of 2013 % 2014 % 2015 % Data recorded on: coverage of data of data of data By order of the Board Natural gas at offices Floor area 95% 95% 97% Electricity at offices Floor area 91% 95% 96% Offsite data centres Floor area 90% 100% 100% Fugitive emissions at offices Floor area 0% 10% 11% Water at offices Headcount 40% 40% 35% Waste at offices Headcount 42% 39% 39% Mark Peters Business travel flights Headcount 29% 36% Company Secretary Business travel train, 24 February 2016 taxi, car hire Headcount 57% Commuter travel Headcount 49% 53% Estimated UBM plc Event space Registered number: 100460 Energy at events Recorded 53% 52% 91% Registered office: 44 Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG Event space Waste at events Recorded 65% 49% 84% UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 Financial Statements Table of contents 87 Independent auditors report to the members of UBM plc 94 Financial statements 94 Consolidated income statement 95 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 96 Consolidated statement of financial position 97 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 98 Consolidated statement of cash flows 99 Section 1 Basis of preparation 102 Section 2 Segment information 105 Section 3 Operating profit and tax 105 3.1 Revenue 105 3.2 Other operating income 105 3.3 Operating expenses 106 3.4 Operating leases 106 3.5 Exceptional operating items 107 3.6 Tax 110 3.7 Earnings per share 111 Section 4 Financial position 111 4.1 Goodwill 113 4.2 Intangible assets 114 4.3 Property, plant and equipment 116 4.4 Investments in joint ventures and associates 117 4.5 Working capital 117 4.5.
3 Trade and other payables 119 4.6 Provisions 120 Section 5 Capital structure and financial policy 121 5.1 Movements in net debt 121 5.2 Cash and cash equivalents 122 5.3 Borrowings 123 5.4 Net financing expense 124 5.5 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 125 5.6 Fair values and fair value hierarchy 127 5.7 Financial risk management objectives and policies 129 5.8 Equity and dividends 131 Section 6 Acquisitions and disposals 131 6.1 Acquisitions 134 6.2 Equity transactions 134 6.3 Disposals 135 6.4 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale 137 Section 7 Employee benefits 137 7.1 Employee costs 137 7.2 Retirement benefit obligations 142 7.3 Share-based payments 143 Section 8 Other notes 143 8.1 Group subsidiaries 149 8.2 Related party transactions 150 Additional information 150 Five year summary 150 Exchange rates 151 UBM plc parent company financial statements and related notes 86 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2015
