ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT The following sets out how Unilevers Remuneration Policy, which is available on our website, will be implemented in 2016 and how it was implemented in 2015. www.
com ara2015 downloads IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2016 FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Graeme Pitkethly Graeme Pitkethly became CFO and a member of the ULE on 1 October 2015.
He will be proposed for election as an Executive Director of the Boards of NV and PLC at the AGMs in April 2016 and therefore his 2015 remuneration is not disclosed herein.
The Committee approved the following remuneration package for Graeme Pitkethly, which came into effect from 1 October 2015: base salary: 625,000: fixed allowance: 200,000: annual bonus for 2016: target award 100% of base salary with a maximum of 150% of base salary.
Before Graeme became CFO his target award was 70% of base salary.
These rates have been applied pro rata for 2015 with the higher rate from the date of his appointment as CFO: MCIP share award from 2016: a minimum of 25% of gross bonus must be, and up to 60% may be, invested in Unilever shares and matched under the terms of the MCIP with vesting in the range of zero to 150%: GSIP share award from 2016: target award of 150% of base salary, ie the 2016 award has a face value of 937,500 under the terms of the GSIP, to vest in 2019 in the range of zero to 200%: and death, disability and medical insurance cover and actual tax return preparation costs in line with Unilevers Remuneration Policy.
Graemes package, as above, will remain unchanged if he is appointed as an Executive Director at the AGMs in April 2016.
His remuneration package is in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy.
The Committee believes that the positioning of the package represents an acceptable balance in view of various considerations, such as Jean-Marc Huts package, competitive external market pay rates across Unilevers peer group and Graemes previous package.
ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION FIXED ELEMENTS AT A GLANCE DESCRIPTION OF REMUNERATION Salary effective from The Committee recognises that the CEOs salary is below competitive benchmarks BASE SALARY 1 January 2016: compared to similar sized UK and European companies.
Having regard to the CEOs CEO 1,010,000 sustained track record of good performance, the Committee has expressed its unchanged from 2015 intention to make further increases to salary to address this over the last few years.
CFO 625,000 However, the Committee once more agreed to Paul Polmans request to not increase his base salary in light of his view that the CEO should be rewarded through performance-based pay rather than a salary increase.
Accordingly, the CEOs salary will be held steady for the fourth year in a row.
Graeme Pitkethlys salary has been set in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy and with regard to the previous CFOs salary level, competitive external market pay rates across Unilevers peer group and his previous package inside Unilever.
Fixed allowance for 2016: A fixed allowance not linked to base salary is provided as a simple, competitive FIXED ALLOWANCE CEO 250,000 alternative to the provision of itemised benefits and pensions.
CFO 200,000 Amounts for other In line with Unilevers Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors will be provided with death, OTHER BENEFIT benefits are not known disability and medical insurance cover and actual tax return preparation costs in 2016.
ENTITLEMENTS until the year end.
com ara2015 downloads In line with the commitments made to the current CEO on recruitment and included in the Remuneration Policy, Unilever also pays the CEOs social security obligations in his country of residence to protect him against the difference between employee social security obligations in his country of residence versus the UK.
Conditional supplemental pension The CEO also receives a conditional supplemental pension accrual to compensate him for the arrangements forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
The CEO will receive a contribution to his supplemental pension of 12% of the lower of his actual base salary over the year and his 2011 base salary 920,000 plus 3% per annum.
The cap for 2016 has been kept at 976,028 with a maximum contribution of 117,123.
This supplemental pension accrual is conditional on the CEO remaining in employment with Unilever to age 60 and subsequently retiring from active service or his death or total disability prior to retirement.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION The actual targets for the annual bonus and the three business-focused performance measures for the MCIP and GSIP awards to be made in 2016 have not been disclosed up front.
The Boards deem this to be commercially sensitive information as targets could reveal information about Unilevers business plan and budgeting process to competitors, which could be damaging to Unilevers business interests and therefore to shareholders.
Where appropriate, targets will be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report following the end of the respective performance period.
Performance measures are selected to align with Unilevers clearly stated growth ambition and our long-term business strategy.
Unilevers primary business objective is to generate a sustainable improvement in business performance through increasing underlying sales while steadily improving core operating margins and cash flow.
The measures chosen for the annual and long-term incentives support the delivery of this objective.
Performance measures focus management on the delivery of a combination of top-line revenue growth and bottom-line profit growth that Unilever believes will build shareholder value over the longer term.
The use of a performance measure based on total shareholder return measures Unilevers success relative to peers.
PERFORMANCE AT A GLANCE DESCRIPTION ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION CEO target 120% of base salary, The performance measures for 2016 will be: ANNUAL BONUS maximum 200% of base salary.
CFO target 100% of base salary, Underlying sales Free cash flow Core operating growth margin maximum 150% of base salary.
improvement In addition, when determining annual bonus awards, the Committee will also consider personal performance and the quality of results in terms of both business results and leadership, including corporate social responsibility and progress against the delivery of USLP goals.
Out of their annual bonus awards, Matching shares awarded under the MCIP in 2016 will be subject to the MCIP 2016 Executive Directors are required same performance measures as GSIP awards made in the year.
Further to invest 25% of their gross bonus details of the performance measures are disclosed below.
and may invest up to 60% of their The Committee considers that using the same performance measures gross bonus in the MCIP across both the MCIP and GSIP is appropriate, as the performance investment shares which are measures used reflect our key strategic goals and maintain the alignment held in the individuals name.
of our incentive plans with the delivery of our clearly stated growth They are awarded an equal number ambitions.
Given that we use four different performance measures, the of MCIP matching shares.
Committee believes that the proportion of remuneration linked to each Maximum vesting for matching performance measure is not excessive.
shares is 150% of the initial award.
The maximum award of matching shares for the CEO and CFO as a percentage of base salary at grant, assuming maximum bonus and maximum deferral under the MCIP, would be 180% of base salary and 135% of base salary respectively.
Target award 200% Performance targets are assessed over a three-year period.
GSIP 2016 AWARDS of base salary for the CEO and Performance measures for 2016 awards: 150% of base salary for CFO.
Maximum vesting of 200% Underlying Core operating Cumulative Relative total initial award.
sales growth margin operating cash shareholder a a b Maximum vesting of 400% of 25% improvement flow 25% return 25% a base salary for the CEO and 25% 300% of base salary for the CFO.
Both performance conditions must reach threshold performance, before any payout in respect of either measure is made.
70 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2015
