CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL STATEMENT OF THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Executive Directors were each granted an award under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP during the year based on performance over the three financial years to 31 December 2017.
These awards will vest to the extent that challenging earnings per share, total return and relative total shareholder return TSR targets are achieved over the period, with one-third of any award vesting required to be held for an additional year.
Performance share awards made in April 2013 vested on performance to 31st December 2015.
These awards were based on net asset value, net portfolio contribution NPC and TSR outperformance of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Supersector Index.
The Company exceeded maximum targets for each element, resulting in 100% of the original award vesting.
The Committee is satisfied that the implied vesting level reflects the underlying performance of the Company.
Consistent with the rules of the plan, these awards will vest in tranches with two-thirds released on the third anniversary of grant in April 2016, and the remaining one-third being released after a further year-long ELIZABETH MCMEIKAN, CHAIR REMUNERATION holding period.
COMMITTEE ADJUSTMENTS FOLLOWING PLACING During the year, Unite raised 115 million through a share placing.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER, Following the placing, and consistent with the approach taken On behalf of the Board, it is my pleasure to present the Directors last year, the Remuneration Committee evaluated the potential Remuneration Report for 2015. impact on the outcomes of shortand long-term incentives in respect of 2015 performance.
The Committee concluded that As in previous years, this report is split into three sections: this the only adjustment necessary was in respect of NPC under the Annual Statement, the Policy Report and the Annual Report on 2013 LTIP, and the NPC outcome under this element has therefore Remuneration.
This year we will be asking you, our shareholders, been adjusted downwards.
However, this element is still vested in to approve a new remuneration policy for Executive Directors full.
Further details are included on page 74. at our Annual General Meeting.
The background to, and the reasons for, the proposed changes are set out later in this PROPOSED CHANGES TO UNITES EXECUTIVE Annual Statement.
REMUNERATION POLICY As demonstrated in the Financial Highlights section on page 1, Whilst 2015 performance has been exceptional, Unites 2015 has been another year of exceptional performance for performance is equally impressive when viewed over a longer The Unite Group.
Financial performance has been headlined period: NAV per share has increased from 295p in 2010 to 579p by growth in recurring profits, significantly higher NAV, a further in 2015, EPRA EPS is up from 3 p to 23p over the same period, and reduction in see-through loan-to-value ratio, and another we have moved from a position of having suspended dividends increase in annual dividend.
Last years launch of Home for to paying the largest dividend in our 25-year history last year.
Our Success has contributed towards even higher levels of customer operational portfolio has continued to grow steadily, with total satisfaction, placing us firmly within the top quartile against our beds now around 46,000 cf.
at 99% and a strong pipeline going into the next three years, consolidating our position as the UKs leading student With this in mind, the Committees key decisions during the year accommodation provider in a growing market.
An investment related to the following areas: of 100 in Unite shares in December 2010 would be worth c. 363 as at 31 December 2015 TSR of c. 29% per annum, ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOMES FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR compared to c. 196 c. 14% per annum for a similar investment Executive Directors will receive bonuses of 127% of their respective in the FTSE 350 Real Estate Supersector Index, while the base salaries cf.
The proposed Companys market capitalisation of c. 1.45bn now ranks bonuses reflect both the continued strong financial performance c. 200th in the FTSE.
of the group and the exceptional individual contributions made by each of the Executive Directors over the last year.
As in each Although the current Directors Remuneration Policy was of the last two years, having carefully considered performance approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, our executive against individual objectives, as well as the performance of remuneration programme has in fact remained unchanged the Group as a whole, the Committee approved a maximum for the last five years, in terms of both structure and quantum.
personal performance multiplier for each Executive Director.
A summary of the key achievements for each individual taken into account in making this decision is included on page 82.
70 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information More substantial changes have taken place across the broader in scale of our operations, and the increased competition for organisation, where Unite has implemented a number of talent in the student housing sector do, however, mean that initiatives aimed at rewarding the hard work and value created total executive remuneration has fallen below market rates by our employees, including the adoption of a Living Wage from versus comparable companies.
March last year, the payment of a universal tenure-based bonus The Committee is proposing a number of changes to restore the of between 2.5% and 10% of salary to all non-Board employees competitiveness of pay in a balanced manner, through both in 2015 in addition to normal bonus arrangements, and the base pay and awards under the long-term incentive plan.
introduction of targeted longer-term incentives for selected Increases to long-term incentive opportunities constitute the senior management.
With these initiatives in place, and against majority of the proposed quantum changes, reflecting the the backdrop of stellar financial and operational performance, Committees focus on motivating the delivery of sustainable the Committee undertook to review the overall remuneration long-term performance and ensuring alignment with our of Executive Directors at the end of last year.
We are also taking this opportunity to implement The general conclusion from the review was that the current a number of broader best practice changes relating to holding remuneration structure base salary, benefits, a bonus plan periods, clawback and increased shareholding guidelines.
and a single long term incentive plan remains appropriate Further details of the proposed changes as they will apply over for Unite, and that changes to performance measures made the next couple of years are set out in the table below: in recent years appropriately reflect business strategy.
The aforementioned increase in size of the company, the increase Element Proposed changes and rationale Base salaries Salaries for the CEO and CFO will be increased by 6%, and salaries for the two managing directors will be increased by 9% from 1 March 2016.
However, this still leaves the two managing directors salaries below the level we feel they should be at, given their level of experience and individual contribution to the success of the business.
Therefore, and subject to continued strong performance over 2016, salaries for the managing directors will be increased by an additional c. 9% effective 1 March 2017.
Proposed increases reflect Unites strong performance, an increase in scale of operations and the demand for talent in the student housing sector.
The staged approach to increases for the managing directors is designed to help ensure that there is no reward for failure, and allows the Committee to assess performance again before finalising the second increase next year.
LTIP Normal exceptional opportunities under the LTIP will be increased from 150% 200% of salary to 200% 300% of salary and all four executives will be granted an LTIP award equivalent to 200% of salary for 2016.
Shares will be subject to a mandatory two-year holding period at the end of the three-year performance period, rather than the current system of deferring one-third of vested shares for a single year.
This approach ensures that the majority of the increase in reward is directly linked to Unites longer-term performance against KPIs, and affords the Committee greater flexibility year-on-year to adjust reward opportunities to reflect company performance than a pure increase in fixed pay would.
Clawback provisions Consistent with best practice in this area, clawback provisions will be introduced on both annual bonus and LTIP, in addition to the current malus provisions.
Shareholding To reflect the increased LTIP opportunity and provide further shareholder alignment, Executive Director guidelines ownership guidelines will be increased by 50% of salary: from 200% to 250% of salary for the CEO, and from 150% to 200% of salary for the other three executive directors.
Executive Directors will continue to receive up to 50% of any annual bonus in deferred Unite shares until these guidelines have been met.
The Committee has consulted on the proposed changes with major shareholders who represent around two-thirds of the issued share capital, as well as key UK institutional investors.
Feedback on the proposals has been positive and we are therefore seeking shareholder support at the 2016 AGM to make these changes.
ELIZABETH MCMEIKAN Chair Remuneration Committee 23 February 2016 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
