CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions The Committee is seeking shareholder approval for a new of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and remuneration policy at the 2016 AGM, with the principal Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports changes compared to the previously approved policy Regulations 2008 as amended.
It also meets the requirements being the following: of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Maximum opportunities under the LTIP have been increased Transparency Rules.
from 150% of salary to 200% of salary in normal circumstances, In accordance with the Regulations, the following sections of the and from 200% of salary to 300% of salary in exceptional Remuneration Report are subject to audit: the single total figure circumstances of remuneration for Directors and accompanying notes pages Shareholding guidelines have been increased by 50% of salary 81 to 83, scheme interests awarded during the financial year for each Executive Director: to 250% of salary for the Chief pages 84 to 85, payments to past directors page 85, payments Executive and 200% of salary for other Executive Directors for loss of office page 85 and the statement of directors shareholdings and share interests pages 88 to 89.
The The current policy on LTIP holding periods has been updated remaining sections of the report are not subject to audit.
to provide that any shares vesting in relation to awards made from 2016 onwards will be subject to a mandatory two-year holding period cf.
one-third deferred for a single year currently Clawback provisions will be included on variable incentives, in addition to the current malus provisions POLICY TABLE Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Base salaries are reviewed from time to time, with reference Any base salary increases are applied in line with the outcome None.
1 To recognise the individuals skills and experience and to provide to salary levels for similar roles at comparable companies, of the review as part of which the Committee also considers a competitive base reward.
to individual contribution to performance: and to the average increases across the Group.
Following a review of experience of each Executive.
remuneration, 2016 salary increases of between 6% and 9% are proposed, further details of which are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 70.
Subject to continued strong performance over the coming year, salaries for the managing directors will be increased by an additional c. 9% effective 1 March 2017.
Notwithstanding these proposed increases, in respect of existing Executive Directors it is anticipated that salary increases will generally be in line with those of salaried employees as a whole.
In exceptional circumstances including, but not limited to, a material increase in job size or complexity the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels to ensure that they remain market competitive.
Pension All Executives are either members of The UNITE Group personal Executive Directors receive a pension contribution of 20% None.
To provide an opportunity for executives to build up pension scheme or receive a cash pension allowance.
of salary or an equivalent cash allowance.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Benefits Executives receive benefits which consist primarily of the Benefits vary by role and individual circumstances: None.
To provide non-cash benefits which are competitive provision of a company car or a car allowance, and private eligibility and cost is reviewed periodically.
in the market in which the executive is employed.
health care insurance, although benefits can include any The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost such benefits that the Committee deems appropriate.
in certain circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the companys control have changed materially e. g. increases in insurance premiums.
SAYE An HMRC approved scheme whereby employees including Savings are capped at the prevailing HMRC limit at the time None.
To encourage the ownership of shares in Unite.
Executive Directors may save up to the maximum monthly employees are invited to participate.
savings limit as determined by prevailing HMRC guidelines over a period of three years.
1 Remuneration peer companies have historically included the constituents of the FTSE350 Real Estate Index and UK-listed companies of similar market capitalisation.
The Committee reviews comparator groups periodically to ensure they remain appropriate and retains the discretion to change companies.
72 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information There should be a focus on sustained long-term performance, DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY with performance measured over clearly specified timescales, The Group aims to balance the need to attract, retain and encouraging executives to take action in line with the Groups motivate Executive Directors and other senior executives of an strategic plan, using good business management principles appropriate calibre with the need to be cost effective, whilst and taking well-considered risks at the same time rewarding exceptional performance.
The Committee has designed a remuneration policy that balances Individuals should be rewarded for success, but steps should these factors, taking account of prevailing best practice, investor be taken, within contractual obligations, to prevent rewards expectations and the level of remuneration and pay awards for failure made generally to employees of the Group.
This section of the report sets out the policy for Executive Directors In addition to the above, the remuneration policy for the Executive which the Company is asking shareholders to approve at the 2016 Directors and other senior executives is based on the following AGM.
It is intended that the revised policy will come into effect key principles: from that date.
A significant proportion of remuneration should be tied to the achievement of specific and stretching performance conditions that align remuneration with the creation of shareholder value and the delivery of the Groups strategic plan POLICY TABLE Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Base salaries are reviewed from time to time, with reference Any base salary increases are applied in line with the outcome None.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Performance related annual bonus Performance measures, targets and weightings are set at the For Executive Directors, the maximum annual bonus opportunity Performance is assessed on an annual basis, as measured against To incentivise and reward strong performance against financial start of each year.
is 144% of base salary, comprising: specific objectives set at the start of each year.
The measures and non-financial annual targets, thus delivering value to typically include both financial and non-financial metrics as The scheme has two elements: a corporate element and A maximum bonus under the corporate element of 120% shareholders and being consistent with the delivery of the well as the achievement of personal objectives.
At the end of the year, the of salary strategic plan.
Remuneration Committee determines the extent to which Corporate measures will be weighted appropriately each year A maximum multiplier under the individual element of 1.2, targets have been achieved.
Measures may include, but are with a range of zero to 1.2 not limited to, adjusted EPS, total return growth, the ratio of net Bonus payments are delivered in cash unless an individuals Achieving on-target performance warrants a bonus debt to EBITDA and customer satisfaction.
Weightings that apply shareholding requirements have not been met, in which case equivalent to 70% of salary.
For threshold level performance, to each measure may vary between 10% and 50%, with the up to 50% of the annual bonus payable to the relevant Director the bonus will be 50% of base salary.
range of performance required under each measure calibrated is satisfied by an allocation of shares in the Company, which are with reference to Unites internal budgets.
Financial measures held in its Employee Share Ownership Trust.
will make up at least 75% of the total opportunity under the Awards under the performance related annual bonus are corporate element.
subject to malus and clawback provisions, further details of The individual element is based on the Committees assessment which are included as a note to the policy table.
of an executives personal performance over the course of the year, as measured by the performance development programme review.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic bonus outcomes both upwards within the plan limits and downwards including down to zero to ensure alignment of pay with performance, e. g. in the event of one of the targets under the bonus being significantly missed or unforeseen circumstances outside of management control.
The Committee also considers measures outside of the bonus framework e. g. H&S to ensure there is no reward for failure.
Further details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable are provided on page 82.
LTIP The LTIP comprises a performance share plan PSP and The LTIP provides for an award up to a normal aggregate limit Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to continued employment and To drive sustained long-term performance that supports the an approved employee share option scheme ESOS.
of 200% of salary for Executive Directors, with an overall limit performance against three equally-weighted measures, which creation of shareholder value.
of 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
are currently as follows: The ESOS is used to deliver a proportion of the LTIP in a taxefficient manner, and is subject to the same performance Awards may include a grant of HMRC approved options not Adjusted earnings per share EPS : conditions as awards made under the PSP.
exceeding 10k per annum, valued on a fair value exchange Total return TR : and currently 50-60% of a PSP award.
Award levels and performance conditions are reviewed before Relative total shareholder return TSR each award cycle to ensure they remain appropriate and no A payment equal to the value of dividends which would have The Committee has the discretion to adjust the performance less stretching than the first cycle.
accrued on vested shares will be made following the release measures to ensure that they continue to be linked to the delivery of awards to participants: either in the form of cash or as Awards under the LTIP are subject to malus and clawback of Company strategy.
provisions, further details of which are included as a note to Under each measure, threshold performance will result in 25% the policy table.
of maximum vesting for that element, rising on a straight-line to full vesting.
Awards made under the LTIP will have a performance period of at least three years and a minimum vesting period of three years.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the relevant performance period, awards will lapse.
A proportion of vested awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, be subject to a mandatory holding period following the end of a three-year vesting period.
The Committees intention is that under future LTIP cycles, all awards will be required to be held for an additional two year period post-vesting.
As under the performance related annual bonus, the Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic LTIP outcomes to ensure alignment of pay with performance, i. e. to ensure the outcome is a true reflection of the performance of the company.
Details of the targets to be used in future LTIP grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
74 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Performance related annual bonus Performance measures, targets and weightings are set at the For Executive Directors, the maximum annual bonus opportunity Performance is assessed on an annual basis, as measured against To incentivise and reward strong performance against financial start of each year.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Shareholding guidelines NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE The Committee continues to recognise the importance of The Committee is satisfied that the above remuneration policy Executive Directors aligning their interests with shareholders is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote through building up a significant shareholding in the Company.
Shareholding guidelines are in place that require Executive Performance measure selection and approach to target setting Directors to acquire a holding excluding shares that remain Measures used under the performance related annual bonus subject to performance conditions equivalent to 250% of and LTIP are selected annually to reflect the Groups main base salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of base salary shortand long-term objectives and reflect both financial for each of the other Executive Directors.
Until the relevant and non-financial priorities, as appropriate.
shareholding levels are acquired, up to 50% of the annual bonus payable to the relevant Director will be subject to deferral into The Committee considers that EPS used in both the shortand shares and are transferable to the Director after three years.
long-term incentive is an objective and well-accepted measure Details of the Executive Directors current personal shareholdings of the Companys performance which reinforces the strategic are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
objective of achieving profitable growth, whilst a focus on total return also used in both the shortand long-term incentive is Malus and clawback consistent with one of our stated objectives and a key indicator Awards under the performance related annual bonus and the of company performance in the real estate sector.
The use of LTIP are subject to malus and, from 2016, clawback provisions relative TSR is strongly aligned with shareholders and ensures which can be applied to both vested and unvested awards.
that executives are rewarded only if they exceed the returns Clawback provisions will apply for a period of at least two years which an investor could achieve elsewhere in our sector.
Circumstances in which malus and clawback may be applied include a material misstatement of the Companys Targets applying to the performance related annual bonus and financial accounts, gross misconduct on the part of the awardLTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of internal and holder and error in calculating the award vesting outcome.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular strategic NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION priorities and economic environment in a given year.
Under the bonus, target performance typically requires meaningful Non-Executive Director Date of service contract improvement on the previous years outturn, and for financial P M White 10 January 2009 measures, targets are typically in line with the upper end of R J T Wilson 1 December 2010 market consensus.
M Wolstenholme 1 December 2011 Remuneration policy for other employees A Jones 18 October 2012 Unites approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of experience, E McMeikan 13 November 2013 responsibility, individual performance and salary levels in P Dempsey 1 March 2016 comparable companies.
The Company is also now a fully accredited Living Wage employer.
Subject to annual re-election by shareholders, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of approximately three All employees are eligible to participate in an annual bonus years.
Subsequent terms of three years may be awarded.
Current scheme with similar metrics to those used for the Executive appointments will expire at the annual general meeting in 2016 in Directors.
Opportunities and specific performance conditions the case of Andrew Jones: at the annual general meeting in 2017 vary by organisational level with business area-specific metrics in the case of Elizabeth McMeikan and Sir Tim Wilson: and at the incorporated where appropriate.
2018 annual general meeting in the case of Phil White and Manjit Senior managers c. 15 individuals are eligible to participate Wolstenholme.
Patrick Dempsey will join the Board as a Nonin the LTIP with annual awards currently up to 50% of salary.
Executive Director with effect from 1 March 2016.
The Performance conditions are consistent for all participants, appointment and re-appointment and the remuneration of while award sizes vary by organisational level.
Specific cash Non-Executive Directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
incentives are also in place to motivate, reward and retain The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the employees below Board level.
Companys performance related bonus plan, long-term incentive All employees are eligible to participate in the Companys plans or pension arrangements.
SAYE scheme on the same terms.
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table on page 77: 76 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR POLICY TABLE Function Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fees Fee levels are reviewed annually, with any Non-Executive Director fee increases None To attract and adjustments effective 1 January in the year are applied in line with the outcome of retain Nonfollowing review.
Fees for the year Executive commencing 1 January 2016 are set out The fees paid to the Chairman are determined Directors of the in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
by the Committee, whilst the fees of the highest calibre Non-Executive Directors are determined by Fee levels will be next reviewed during 2016, with broad the Board.
with any increase effective 1 January 2017. commercial Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior It is expected that increases to Non-Executive and other Independent Director and as Chairman of any Director fee levels will be in line with salaried experience of the Boards Committees Audit, Remuneration, employees over the life of the policy.
relevant to Nomination and Health & Safety.
However, in the event that there is a material the Company.
misalignment with the market or a change Fee levels are benchmarked against sector in the complexity, responsibility or time comparators and FTSE-listed companies of commitment required to fulfil a Non-Executive similar size and complexity.
Time commitment Director role, the Board has discretion to make and responsibility are taken into account when an appropriate adjustment to the fee level.
Richard Simpson PAY FOR PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS The charts below provide an illustration of the potential future 100% reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential Minimum 338k split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: minimum, on-target 51% 29% 20% and maximum.
On-target 662k Potential reward opportunities are based on Unites remuneration 27% 31% 42% policy, applied to the base salaries effective 1 March 2016.
The Maximum annual bonus and LTIP are based on the maximum opportunities 1,267k set out under the remuneration policy for normal circumstances: being 144% of salary and 200% of salary respectively.
Note that the 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 m LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third Richard Smith anniversary of the date of grant, and the projected value is based on the face value at award rather than vesting i. e. the scenarios 100% exclude the impact of any share price movement over the period.
Minimum 338k Mark Allan 51% 29% 20% 100% On-target 662k Minimum 575k 27% 31% 42% 51% 29% 20% Maximum 1,267k On-target 1,127k 27% 31% 42% 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 m Maximum 2,158k n Salary, pension and benefits n Annual bonus n LTIP 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 m The minimum scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits i. e. fixed remuneration which are the only elements of the Joe Lister Executive Directors remuneration packages not linked to 100% performance.
Minimum 364k The on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, 51% 29% 20% plus bonus payout of 70% of salary and LTIP threshold vesting On-target at 25% of maximum award.
714k 27% 31% 42% The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives.
Maximum 1,366k 0 0.5 1.0 1.5 m The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION External appointment In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Company, the Remuneration Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Maximum annual Component Approach grant value Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years subject to the individuals development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions or an equivalent cash supplement in line with existing policy.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include but are not limited to the provision of a company car or cash alternative, private medical SAYE insurance and any necessary relocation expenses.
New appointees will also be eligible to participate in all-employee share schemes.
Performance related 144% of salary The structure described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the annual bonus relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the individual element will be tailored to each executive.
LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as other 300% of salary executives, as described in the policy table.
The normal aggregate limit of 200% of salary will apply, save in exceptional circumstances where up to 300% of salary may be awarded.
In determining appropriate remuneration, the Remuneration INTERNAL PROMOTION Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction promotion, the Remuneration Committee and Board will be from which the candidate was recruited to ensure that consistent with the policy for external appointees detailed above.
arrangements are in the best interests of both Unite and its Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior shareholders.
The Committee may make an award in respect of to their promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited continue to honour these arrangements.
The Remuneration on leaving a previous employer on a like-for-like basis, which may policy for other employees is set out on page 79.
Incentive be awarded in addition to the remuneration structure outlined in opportunities for below Board employees are typically no the table above.
In doing so, the Committee will consider higher than Executive Directors, but measures may vary to relevant factors including time to vesting, any performance provide better line-of-sight.
conditions attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met.
Any such buy-out awards will typically NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS be made under the existing annual bonus and LTIP schemes, In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration although in exceptional circumstances the Committee may Committee will utilise the policy as set out in the table on page exercise the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be make awards using a different structure.
Any buy-out awards payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable would have a fair value no higher than the awards forfeited.
for acting as Senior Independent Director and or as Chairman of the Boards Committees.
78 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 01 Strategic report 02 Corporate governance 03 Financial statements 04 Other information SERVICE CONTRACTS AND TREATMENT FOR LEAVERS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the AND CHANGE OF CONTROL overriding requirements of the Group, Executive Directors may Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for accept external appointments as Non-Executive Directors of early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee.
In other companies and retain any fees received.
Effective 1 August accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive 2014, Mark Allan became a Trustee Director of Anchor Trust for Directors has a rolling service contract requiring 12 months notice which he will retain fees of 25k p. a.
None of the other Executive of termination on either side.
Such contracts contain no specific Directors currently hold external appointments.
provision for compensation for loss of office, other than an obligation to pay for any notice period waived by the Company, CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE where pay is defined as salary, benefits and any other statutory IN THECOMPANY payments only.
Executive Director service contracts are available When making decisions on Executive Director remuneration, to view at the Companys registered office.
the Committee considers pay and conditions across Unite.
Prior Executive Date of service contract to the annual salary review, the Operations HR Director provides M C Allan 31 October 1999 the Committee with a summary of the proposed level of increase for overall employee pay.
The Remuneration Committee does not J J Lister 28 March 2002 formally consult with employees on the executive remuneration R C Simpson 28 September 2011 policy and framework.
R S Smith 28 September 2011 CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Remuneration Committee maintains a regular dialogue The Remuneration Committee will exercise discretion in making with its major shareholders, and most recently consulted with appropriate payments in the context of outplacement, settling shareholders representing around two-thirds of Unites issued legal claims or potential legal claims by a departing Executive share capital regarding proposed changes to the Companys Director, including any other amounts reasonably due to the remuneration policy.
The Committee will continue to monitor Executive Director, for example to meet the legal fees incurred trends and developments in corporate governance and market in connection with the termination of employment, where the practice to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement and the remains appropriate.
individual must seek independent legal advice.
When considering exit payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion: Reason for leaving Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Resignation No annual bonus payable.
1 Good leaver Cash bonuses will only be paid to the extent that financial and individual objectives set at the beginning of the year have been met.
Any resulting bonus will be pro-rated Change of control for time served during the year.
LTIP Resignation Outstanding awards lapse 1 Good leaver The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding awards vest based on the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved and the proportion Change of control of the vesting period worked.
The determination of vesting will be made as soon as reasonably practicable following the end of the performance period or such earlier date as the Committee may agree within 12 months in the event of death.
In the event of a change of control, Unite awards may alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer where appropriate.
1 Good leaver is defined as a participant ceasing to be employed by the Group by reason of death, disability, ill health, redundancy, retirement or any other reason that the Committee determines in its absolute discretion.
The treatment of shares subject to deferral or holding periods will be subject to the Remuneration Committees discretion and will take into account the circumstances at the time.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79
