Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Patrick fide Smedt Annual Statement Despite the positive performance The success of Victrex Dear shareholder thisyear, the LTIP award granted in isdriven by a continued December 2012 and due to vest in On behalf of the Board, I am pleased focus on growing December 2015 based on performance topresent the Directors Remuneration up to 30 September 2015 has not profitable earnings in Report for the year ended achieved its TSR and EPS targets 30September 2015. asustainable manner.
forthe three year cumulative period andthus will lapse in full.
Assuch, stretching profit Our strategy We continue on our drive for Following a freeze for 2014 and a 2.7% growth targets represent growth, targeting high volume, increase in 2015, the Remuneration the key measure in our highvalue applications across our Committee the Committee has annual bonus plan.
balanced portfolio of five core agreed to award executive Directors markets Automotive, Aerospace, asalary increase of 2.75% for 2016, Electronics, Energy and Medical.
This inlinewith the average increase for isunderpinned by a clear and focused allemployees across the Group.
product leadership strategy, with an Despite the headwinds we faced emphasis on technical excellence, inourbusiness this year, Victrex innovation and marketing know-how.
hasdelivered solid results and the Committee believes that the current Pay and performance in 2015 year pay outcomes accurately reflect The success of Victrex is driven by a the current years performance.
continued focus on growing profitable earnings in a sustainable manner.
As Future strategy and reward such, stretching profit growth targets The Committee continually reviews the represent the key measure in our annual senior executive remuneration policy to bonus plan.
Beyond this key financial ensure it promotes the motivation and driver, we believe in rewarding our retention of the high quality executives executives based on their individual who are the key to delivering sustainable contribution to success alongside the earnings growth and shareholder return delivery of long-term sustainable value in the future.
After review, the Committee for our shareholders.
We therefore continues to believe that our current continue to measure performance policy remains appropriate but has against personal strategic objectives determined that incentive programmes inour annual bonus and focus our could be better tailored to promote Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP on agreater linkage and more reliance on twosimple and transparent measures financial targets which adequately relevant to shareholders earnings reflect the expectations of our investors pershare EPS growth and total and market best practice.
The Committee shareholder return TSR.
has therefore suggested implementation Victrex delivered solid results in 2015, of three minor within policy changes to with overall performance in line with be effective in financial year 2016: investor expectations, delivering Group u simplification of our annual bonus revenue, at a reported level including structure to more heavily emphasise theimpact from foreign currency, of profit growth 80% of the award, 263.5m, 4% ahead of the prior year, but balance this with a measurement and profit growth of 4%.
of personal contribution against Based upon these results, a bonus tailored strategic objectives awardof 28.13% of salary was approved 20%of the award : for DR Hummel, with awards of 22.50%, 22.50%, and 18.00% of salary approved for L S Burdett, T J Cooper and MLCourt, respectively.
Victrex plc 49 Annual Report 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Future strategy and reward continued At the forthcoming AGM on u refinement of the weightings of 10February2016, the Annual Report onRemuneration will be subject to an measures on our LTIP to focus advisory shareholder vote.
The Directors onthe earnings growth which Remuneration Policy was approved by iscritical to our future growth our shareholders at the 2014 AGM and strategy.
Measures will now be will be subject to a binding vote every weighted at 75% EPS and 25% three years or sooner if changes are TSR:a change from 50% on made to the policy.
eachmeasure in prior years: and u restatement of the stretching EPS Alignment with shareholders performance required for LTIP We are mindful of our shareholders vesting to better align with investor interests and are keen to ensure a expectations, internal forecasts and demonstrable link between reward and market competitor performance value creation.
The range will now be set ofour LTIP, operation of a clawback at an absolute range of 6% to 12% provision and shareholding guidelines average annual growth, in line with allfoster an ongoing commitment to the typical range for other FTSE thebusiness from our executives and 250 organisations.
continued alignment of shareholder andexecutive objectives.
Our Chief These changes will take effect for Executives significant shareholding also awards made in the 2016 fiscal year and demonstrates his ongoing commitment the Committee has committed to a full to the long-term success of the Company.
holistic review of pay programmes and their alignment with strategy in line with We are very proud of the support we renewal of our policy in 2017. have received in the past from our shareholders, with 99% approval for our Clarity and openness in disclosure Remuneration Report last year.
We The Committee strives to operate and hope that we will continue to receive demonstrate best practice in the area of your support at the forthcoming AGM.
executive remuneration and disclosure and trust that our report demonstrates transparency and clarity in our disclosures.
Our report has three sections as follows: Patrick fide Smedt u this Annual Statement, which Chairman of the summarises and explains the  majordecisions in respect of 8 December 2015 Directors remuneration: our Directors Remuneration Policy, u as approved at the 2014 AGM: and u the Annual Report on Remuneration, providing details of how the policy will operate in 2016 and the remuneration earned by the Companys Directors in relation to the year ended 30September 2015.
