Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors remuneration policy restated from Annual Report 2013 The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and became formally effective 1 October 2013.
A summary of this policy is included here for information and a full copy of the shareholder approved policy can be found on the Company website at www.
Policy overview The Company aims to provide a remuneration structure that is aligned with shareholder interests and, as such, iscompetitive in the marketplace to retain and motivate executive Directors of superior calibre in order to deliver continued growth of the business.
Company policy is that performance related components should form a significant portion of the overall remuneration package, with maximum total potential rewards being earned through the achievement of challenging performance targets based on measures that represent the best interests of shareholders.
Consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at a meeting immediately following the AGM.
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any material changes be made to the remuneration policy.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report and any matters discussed with shareholders during the year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader employee population when determining theannual salary increases and remuneration for the executive Directors.
Employees have not been consulted in respectof the design of the Companys senior executive remuneration policy to date, although the Committee will keepthis under review.
Summary remuneration policy The table below summarises the Directors remuneration policy for 2014 onwards: Purpose and link Element of remuneration tostrategy Operation Maximum Performance targets To provide competitive The basic salary for There is no prescribed Not applicable Salary fixed remuneration eachexecutive Director maximum annual is reviewed annually increase.
The Committee To attract and retain bythe Remuneration is guided by the general executive Directors of Committee increase for the broader superior calibre in order employee population to deliver growth for Individual salary but on occasions may thebusiness adjustments take into need to recognise, for account each executive Intended to reflect example, an increase in Directors performance thatpaid to senior the scale, scope or against agreed management of responsibility of the role challenging objectives comparable companies and the Groups financial Current salary levels are circumstances, as well set out on page 56 ascomparing each executive Directors basic salary to senior management in the Group and relative to theexternal market To provide market Current benefit Not applicable Not applicable Benefits consistent benefits, provisionincludes a including insured company car or car benefits to support the allowance and private individual and their family medical insurance.
Other during periods of ill health, benefits may be payable accidents or death where appropriate Car or car allowances to facilitate effective travel Victrex plc 51 Annual Report 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors remuneration policy restated from Annual Report 2013 continued Summary remuneration policy continued Purpose and link Element of remuneration tostrategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Incentivises annual Not pensionable Up to 125% of salary A combination of growth Bonus achievement of in Group profit before Paid in cash up to 100% performance targets tax and executives of salary personal performance Maximum bonus only Any bonus in excess achievement level payable for achieving of100% of basic salary demanding targets The bonus for personal currently the CEO only performance is payable deferred into shares only if, in the opinion Clawback provisions ofthe Remuneration apply in the event of Committee, there was material misstatement animprovement in the ofresults and or an error underlying financial and in the calculation of the operating performance bonusoutcome of the Group during that financial year Designed to align Annual grant of nil cost LTIP performance Victrex Long-Term Plan limits: withboth the strategic options conditional measured over 3 years Incentive Plan 150% normal limit objectives of delivering awards which normally based on a combination 2009 sustainable earnings vest in equal tranches of EPS and TSR 200% exceptional growth and the interests after 3, 4 and 5 years limit e. g. recruitment 20% of the EPS of shareholders from grant, subject to orretention elementand 25% of performance targets theTSR element of and continued service anaward vests at Participants will threshold performance normally have a five year 0% vests below this period from the date increasing pro-rata each tranche vests in to100% vestingfor which to exercise nil cost maximum performance options.
Participants will receive a payment in cash and or shares on or shortly following the vesting of their awards, of an amount equal to the dividends that would have been paid on those vested shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
Alternatively, participants may have their awards increased as if dividends were paid on the shares which vest are reinvested infurther shares Clawback provisions apply in the event of the material misstatement ofresults and or an error in the calculation of the vesting outcome introduced in 2013 Victrex plc 52 Annual Report 2015 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors remuneration policy restated from Annual Report 2013 continued Summary remuneration policy continued Purpose and link Element of remuneration tostrategy Operation Maximum Performance targets To encourage Not applicable All employee 2005 UK 2005 UK employeeshare shareplans SharesavePlan SharesavePlan ownership and therefore HMRC approved Maximum permitted increase alignment planunder which savings of 250 per withshareholders regularmonthly savings month across all ongoing are made over a 3 or 5 Sharesave contracts year period and can All-Employee Share beused to fund the Ownership Scheme exercise of an option, where the exercise An employee can agree priceis discounted by to purchase shares with upto 20%.
Provides a market value up to taxadvantages 1,500 or 10% of his toUKemployees salary, if lower in any tax year.
The market All-Employee Share value of free shares that Ownership Scheme can be allocated to an HMRC approved plan employee in any tax year that provides employees must not exceed 3,000 with a tax-efficient way US Employee Stock of purchasing shares Purchase Plan andallows the grant offree shares Limit of $25,000 on themaximum value US Employee Stock ofshares that an PurchasePlan employee can purchase Tax favourable plan under under the ESPP which US employees canpurchase stock at adiscount of up to 15% to the fair market value using payroll deductions To increase alignment Executive Directors are 100% of salary for Not applicable Share ownership between executives required to retain 50% executive Directors guidelines andshareholders ofthe net of tax vested LTIP shares until the guideline is met To provide Defined benefit, defined Defined benefit Not applicable Pension retirementbenefits contribution and or contribution salary supplement 25% of salary when arrangements defined contribution Where the promised arrangement salary levels of benefits cannot supplements be provided through theappropriate scheme, the Group may provide benefits through the provision of salary supplements Victrex plc 53 Annual Report 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors remuneration policy restated from Annual Report 2013 continued Summary remuneration policy continued Purpose and link Element of remuneration tostrategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Reflects time Cash fee paid As per executive Not applicable Non-executive commitments Directors, there is no Director fees Fees are reviewed Non-executive andresponsibilities prescribed maximum onanannual basis Directorsdo not ofeachrole annual increase.
The participate in variable Committee is guided Reflects fees paid by pay arrangements bythe general increase similarly sized companies in the non-executive Director market and for the broader employee population but on occasions may need to recognise, for example, an increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role Current fee levels are set out on page 57 Notes 1 A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
2 The following differences exist between the Companys policy for the remuneration of executive Directors as set out above and its approach to the payment of employees generally: A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity or zero bonus opportunity may apply to employees other u than the executive Directors and certain senior executives.
Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise provision of healthcare and company car benefits where u required for the role or to meet market norms.
The majority of employees participate in local defined contribution pension arrangements.
A small number remain u inthe UK defined benefits section which closed to new entrants in 2002.
Participation in the LTIP is limited to the executive Directors and certain selected senior managers.
Other employees u are eligible to participate in the Companys share option schemes.
I n general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive forthe various categories of individuals.
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the executive Directors and senior executives, a greater emphasis tends to be placed on performance related pay.
3 The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should beappropriately challenging and tied to both the delivery of profit growth and specific individual objectives.
4 The TSR and EPS performance conditions applicable to the LTIP were selected by the Remuneration Committee onthe basis that they reward the delivery oflong-term returns to shareholders and the Groups financial growth andare consistent with the Companys objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders.
TheTSR performance condition is monitored onthe Committees behalf by Towers Watson whilst the Groups EPSgrowth is derived from the audited financial statements.
5 The Committee operates share plans in accordance with their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC where relevant.
TheCommittee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of certain plans.
6 All employee share plans SAYE and AESOP do not operate performance conditions.
Executive Directors do not participate in the Victrex 2005 Executive Share Option Plan ESOP which is the primary share incentive arrangement for below Board executives.
7 As highlighted above, the Company has a share ownership policy which requires the executive Directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to100% of base salary.
8 For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company tohonour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors such as the payment of a pension or thevesting exercise of past share awards.
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the AnnualReport on Remuneration as they arise.
Victrex plc 54 Annual Report 2015 Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Directors remuneration policy restated from Annual Report 2013 continued Service contracts for executive Directors The service agreements of the executive Directors are not fixed term and are terminable by either the Company or the Director on twelve months notice and make provision, at the Boards discretion, for early termination by way of payment of salary in lieu of twelve months notice.
Incidental expenses may also be payable where appropriate.
In calculating the amount payable to a Director on termination of employment, the Board would take into account the commercial interests of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the contractual terms for new executive Directors to ensure these reflect best practice.
Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months Termination payment Up to 12 months salary Remuneration entitlements A bonus may be payable pro-rated where relevant and outstanding shareawards may vest Change of control No executive Directors contract contains additional provisions inrespect ofchange of control Approach to recruitment and promotions The remuneration package for a new executive Director i. e. basic salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and long-term incentive awards would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys prevailing approved remuneration policy at thetime of appointment and would reflect the experience of the individual.
The salary for a new executive may be set below the normal market rate, with phased increases over the first few years, as the executive gains experience in their new role.
Annual bonus potential will be limited to 125% of salary and long-term incentives will be limited to 150% of salary 200% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and therefore shareholders to take account of remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would where possible reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal executive Director appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and or incidental expenses as appropriate.
Approach to leavers Annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the financial year served although it will be pro-rated for time and paid at the normal payout date.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive Director under the Companys share plans will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment under the 2009 LTIP is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, ill health, disability, retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, good leaver status may be applied.
For good leavers, awards will normally vest on cessation, subject to the satisfaction of therelevant performance conditions at that time and reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served.
However, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to determine that awards vest at a later date and or to dis-apply time pro-rating.
Thedefault treatment for deferred bonus awards is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain good leaver circumstances as described under the 2009 LTIP above, awards will normally vest in full on the date of cessation  Committee determines otherwise.
The executive Directors may accept outside appointments, with prior Board approval, provided these opportunities do not negatively impact on the individuals ability to perform his duties at the Company.
Whether any related fees are retained by the individual or are remitted to the Company will be considered on a case by case basis.
Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors are appointed under arrangements that may generally be terminated at will by either party without compensation and their appointment is reviewed annually.
