William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 75 Governance This part of the DRR, the Remuneration There must be transparency and alignment REMUNERATION to the delivery of strategic objectives at Policy Report Policy Report, has been POLICY REPORT Financial prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to both a Group and an individual level.
statements There must also be scope to reward the Large and Medium-sized Companies The Policy Report sets out the approved and Groups Accounts and Reports exceptional effort and achievement that Directors remuneration policy for delivers value both for the Group and the Regulations 2008 as amended.
Likewise, failure to achieve The Policy Report was approved by individually or at corporate level will not How the Remuneration shareholders at the Annual General be rewarded.
Committee operates to set Meeting on 8 May 2014 and the theremuneration policy substantive terms of the Policy Report are The Committee is also mindful of reproduced here for ease of reference.
ensuring that there is an appropriate The Committee is constituted in Any details, however, that were specic balance between the level of risk and accordance with the recommendations to 2015 or earlier years including, for reward for the individual, the Company of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
example, any disclosures relating to and for our shareholders.
When setting The Committee is a committee of the particular directors and the illustrative the levels of short-term and long-term Board, which determines the Groups remuneration scenarios have been variable remuneration, the degree of policy on the remuneration of the executive updated, where applicable, to reect the stretch in performance conditions and directors, the Chairman and other relevant current position.
For ease of reference, the split between equity and cash within senior management.
It works within the policy table was updated last year to the package, consideration is given to dened terms of reference which are reect two additional features a higher obtaining the appropriate proportion of available upon request to the Company share ownership requirement for the CFO each so as not to encourage unnecessary Secretary or from the Companys and the addition of a one-year holding risk-taking.
As well as financial risk, the corporate website: www.
period on vested PSP shares relating to Committee also ensures that there is an The Committees key objectives are to: awards made from 2015 onwards.
There is appropriate focus on environment, safety no vote on the remuneration policy at the and governance issues.
s et and agree with the Board 2016 AGM.
a competitive and transparent The remuneration package is reviewed remuneration framework which is periodically taking into account all elements aligned to the Group strategy and is in of remuneration, i. e. not looking at any the interests of both the Company and single element in isolation, to ensure it its shareholders: and remains competitive.
The Committee undertakes the determination of individual d etermine the specic remuneration remuneration packages for executive packages for each of the executive directors and senior management annually.
directors and certain other senior Whilst pay benchmarking provides context managers.
The remuneration for setting pay levels, it is not considered package includes base salary, in isolation.
incentives, benets and any compensation payments.
The total remuneration package is structured so that a significant proportion Remuneration policy is linked to performance conditions measured over both the short and longer The remuneration policy for executive term.
It is also the Committees policy directors and senior management to ensure that a high proportion of the is designed to support the business potential remuneration package is paid needs of the Group, to ensure it has in shares, which is designed to ensure the ability to attract and retain senior that executives have a strong ongoing leaders of a high calibre, and to align the alignment with shareholders through the long-term interests of executive directors Companys share price performance.
and senior management with those ofour shareholders.
The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy for the executive The Committee considers that a successful directors, explaining how each element remuneration policy needs to be sufciently operates and how each part links to the exible to take account of future changes in corporate strategy.
the Groups business environment and in remuneration practice.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 76 Element of remuneration package: Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain key employees of appropriate calibre to deliver thestrategic objectives of the Company.
Reects the market value of the role and the post holders experience, competency and performance within the Company.
Operation Paid monthly in cash via payroll.
Normally reviewed by the Committee annually and xed for 12 months commencing 1 January.
Any salary increase may be inuenced by: the commercial need to do so: role, experience and performance: average change in wider workforce pay: Company profitability and prevailing market conditions: and periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable companies, such as the FTSE 70130.
Opportunity The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels with annual increases typically in line with the wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the workforce may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in the individuals responsibility, or where the salary setat initial appointment was below the level expected once the individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role.
An above-market positioning may be appropriate in exceptional circumstances to reect the criticality of the role and the experience and performance ofthe individual.
Base salary levels for 2016 are: CEO 550,000 CFO 420,000 Performance metrics Executive directors participate in the Companys annual performance management process.
Individual and Company performance is taken into account when determining appropriate salary increases.
Recovery or withholding No recovery or withholding applies.
Element of remuneration package: Benets Purpose and link to strategy Operate competitive, cost-effective benets to help recruit and retain executive directors and senior management.
As with employee benets for the wider workforce, certain benets e. g. private medical insurance areprovided to minimise disruption e. g. from illness to the day-to-day operation of the business.
Operation Benets include private medical insurance covering the executive, spouse and dependent children, a fully expensed car or car allowance, subsidised travel card, permanent health insurance and life assurance benets.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these benets, depending on individual circumstances.
The CEO and the CFO participate in the Companys exible benets scheme.
Relocation and related benets may be offered where a director is required to relocate.
The benefit must be taken up within 12 months of appointment unless exceptional circumstances prevail.
Opportunity The aim is to provide market competitive benets and their value may vary from year to year depending on the cost to the Company from third-party providers.
Performance metrics No performance metrics apply.
Recovery or withholding Relocation and related benets may be subject to clawback either in full or part if an executive resigns within two years of joining.
Element of remuneration package: Pension Purpose and link to strategy Market competitive, cost-effective retirement benets are provided to act as a retention mechanism andto recognise long service.
Operation Company Pension Savings Plan a dened contribution plan or cash allowance in lieu of Company pension contributions once statutory limits Lifetime and Annual Allowance are reached, or a combination of both.
Opportunity The CEO and CFO receive company contributions of 20% of salary.
A company contribution of 20% of salary will apply to new executive directors going forward.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 77 Governance Element of remuneration package: Annual Performance Bonus cash and shares Purpose and link to strategy Incentivise executive directors and senior management to achieve specic, predetermined goals Financial duringa one-year period.
statements Rewards financial and individual performance linked to the Companys strategy.
Deferred proportion of bonus, awarded in shares, provides a retention element and additional alignment of interest with shareholders.
Operation Bonus payment is determined by the Committee after the year-end, based on performance against challenging targets set at the start of the year.
Half of the bonus is payable in cash with the remaining 50% deferred into shares for three years under the Executive Bonus Matching Scheme 2007 EBMS.
The deferred element may be subject to forfeiture in the event of the executive directors departure prior to vesting.
Since the PSP was introduced in 2010, no matching shares to deferred bonus, under EBMS, areoffered to the CEO or the CFO.
The value of dividend payments will accrue in shares or cash, at the discretion of the Committee onvested deferred bonus shares.
Opportunity The maximum bonus for the CEO is 175% of salary: target bonus is 85% of salary: and threshold bonus is 30% of salary.
T he maximum bonus for the CFO is 150% of salary: target bonus is 70% of salary: and threshold bonus is 30% of salary.
Note, for 2016 threshold payment will be reduced to 10% of the maximum bonus opportunity.
Performance metrics The policy is for at least 75% of the bonus to be based on an appropriate mix of financial metrics, such as Company or business unit profits, and no more than 25% on individual objectives.
The Committee iscommitted to ensuring that targets are demanding.
No bonus in respect of the individual objectives will be payable unless at least the threshold level ofperformance is achieved in respect of any profit-related metrics.
The Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, may alter the bonus outcome if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with the Groups overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
Recovery or withholding In line with current best practice, bonus may be recovered or deferred shares withheld if within three years of the bonus payment there has been a material misstatement of results, a calculation error, misleading information or conduct justifying summary dismissal is discovered.
Element of remuneration package: Long-term incentives Performance Share Plan Purpose and link to strategy To drive performance and retention and align interests of executive directors and shareholders through building a shareholding.
Incentivises participants to profitably grow the business and to achieve superior long-term shareholder returns in line with the Companys strategy.
Retains key executives over the performance period.
Operation Awards, normally in the form of nil-cost options, are granted annually with vesting dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions and the executive directors continued employment.
PSP awards have a four-year performance and vesting period.
The value of dividend payments will accrue in shares or cash, at the discretion of the Committee onvested PSP award shares.
A holding period applies for executive directors which requires PSP awards from 2015 to be retained for a further year from the date of vesting except for the sale of shares needed to pay income tax and national insurance arising on exercise.
Opportunity The rules of the PSP state that PSP awards cannot normally exceed 225% of base salary.
This limit may be increased to 300% of base salary in circumstances considered by the Committee to be exceptional.
Quantum is reviewed annually subject to the above limits taking into account overall remuneration, theperformance of the Company and of the executive director being made the award.
The normal policy maximum is 200% of salary for the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 78 Element of remuneration package: Long-term incentives Performance Share Plan Performance metrics The appropriateness of the performance conditions and the targets to be set are reviewed annually.
At least 50% of the award will be based on relative TSR with the remainder on EPS growth targets andBPMs.
Each performance condition is measured independently.
The relative TSR performance condition measures the Companys TSR performance against a comparator group as constructed at the grant date and measured over the four-year performance period.
For a ranking below median, none of this element of the award will vest.
For a median ranking 25% of this element of the award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting of this element for a ranking at or above upper quartile.
The Committee has discretion regarding the treatment of delisted companies for the purposes of the TSR comparator group.
The EPS range will be based on basic adjusted EPS over the four-year performance period.
25% oftheaward will vest for a threshold level of performance and 100% will vest at the maximum level, withstraight-line vesting in between.
For the BPMs, a sliding scale of four-year targets will be set.
None of the awards relating to these measures will vest if performance is below threshold, 25% will vest at threshold with full vesting for maximum performance.
Maximum performance is set as signicantly exceeding the Companys internal expectations.
The Committee has discretion to set different performance targets for future awards provided that the new targets are not materially less challenging, given the prevailing circumstances than those attached to previous awards.
The Committee also retains the exibility to vary the mix of metrics for each years award in light of the business priorities at the time.
Nevertheless, relative TSR will always apply to at least 50% of any award, and BPM targets cannot exceed 25%.
The Committee, in its discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, may alter the PSP vesting outcome if it feels that the payout is inconsistent with the Groups overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the PSP vesting outcome.
Recovery or withholding Withholding applies where there has been a material misstatement, a calculation error or misleading information.
Recovery applies if within three years of vesting there has been any such event or if there has been conduct justifying summary dismissal during the performance period.
Element of remuneration package: All-employee share schemes Purpose and link to strategy All employees including executive directors are encouraged to become shareholders through the operation of the HMRC-approved Save-As-You-Earn SAYE plan and or such other HMRC-approved all-employee share plans as the Company may adopt in the future.
Operation The SAYE has standard terms under which all UK employees including executive directors, withatleastthree months service, can participate.
Element of remuneration package: Share ownership policy Purpose and link to strategy To align interests of management and shareholders and promote a long-term approach to performance and risk management.
Operation The CEO is expected to hold William Hill shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of salary, andtheCFO a minimum of 150% of salary.
Only shares owned outright by the executive director are included in the guideline, which is expected tobe achieved within five years of appointment to the Board.
The Committee will review progress annually with an expectation that executive directors will make progress towards the achievement of the shareholding policy guideline each year.
Half of vested PSP awards after sale of shares to cover associated personal tax liabilities must beretained until the guideline is met.
Notes to the Policy Table choice of performance measures: The performance measures that are used for annual bonus and PSP are a subset of the Companys key performance indicators.
Annual bonus The main emphasis is on financial metrics, for example operating profit dened as pre-exceptional profit before interest and tax, and the amortisation ofspecic identied intangible assets recognised on acquisitions and net revenue.
Operating profit measures the underlying profits generated by the business and whether management is converting growth into profits effectively.
Net revenue is the key indicator of the Groups top line growth, being the revenue retained from the amounts staked after paying out customer winnings and deducting free bets.
Both operating profit and net revenue are reported in the Annual Report and used internally by William Hill to measure performance.
Individual objectives measure whether management is delivering against stated key business and personal targets which are linked to the corporate strategy.
PSP Relative TSR provides a measure of the long-term success of the Company relative to appropriate peer comparators.
EPS growth is a measure of the overall profitability ofthe business for investors over the long term and therefore helps align the interests of management with shareholders.
BPMs provide a more rounded assessment of long-term performance and focus executive reward more directly on some of the key drivers of future business growth.
The TSR comparator group and the EPS targets will be disclosed for each award in the policy for the current year in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Targets for the BPMs are likely to be too sensitive to disclose in advance for commercial reasons.
The Company will, however, fully disclose the original targets and the extent to which they have been achieved on a retrospective basis at the end of the performance period.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will also provide a broad update on progress after each year of the performance period.
William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 79 Governance Incentive plan discretions discretion relating to the measurement Remuneration scenarios for executive directors of performance in the event of a change The Committee will operate the annual Financial of control or reconstruction: The Companys remuneration policy bonus plan, EBMS and PSP legacy statements results in a significant proportion of the and current plans according to their determination of a good leaver remuneration received by executive respective rules, the policy set out above inaddition to any specified categories directors being dependent on Company and in accordance with the Listing for incentive plan purposes based performance.
The chart below shows Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
on the rules of each plan and the how total pay for the executive directors Copies of the PSP and EBMS rules are appropriate treatment under the plan varies under three different performance available on request from the Company rules: and scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum.
The Committee, consistent adjustments required in certain with market practice, retains discretion Minimum circumstances e. g. rights issues, over a number of areas relating to the Comprised of the xed elements of pay corporate restructuring, on a change operation and administration of these being base salary, benets and pension.
These include but are not limited to Base salary and pension is effective as the following: Any use of the above discretions would, at 1 January 2016 and the benets value where relevant, be explained in the Annual is the P11D values for 2015 using an who participates in the plans: Report on Remuneration and may, as annualised gure for the CFO.
the timing of grant of award appropriate, be the subject of consultation Target and or payment: with the Companys major shareholders.
Comprised of xed pay and the target the size of an award and or a payment: Legacy arrangements value of bonus CEO 85% of salary, CFO For the avoidance of doubt, in approving 70% of salary and normal policy PSP the choice of and adjustment of the Policy Report, authority is given to the awards at threshold vesting CEO 50% performance measures and targets for Company to honour any commitments ofsalary, CFO 43.75% of salary.
each incentive plan in accordance with entered into with current or former directors the policy set out above and the rules Maximum that have been disclosed previously to of each plan including the treatment Comprised of xed pay and the maximum shareholders, including awards made ofdelisted companies for the purpose value of bonus CEO 175% of salary, CFO under the EBMS and PSP.
of the TSR Comparator Group : 150% of salary and normal policy PSP awards CEO 200% of salary, CFO 175% of salary.
Remuneration scenarios for executive directors Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer 2,748,500 40% 1,878,500 39% 1,428,500 35% 19% 991,250 33% 34% 18% 686,000 513,500 30% 100% 48% 25% 100% 52% 27% Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP 1 For PSP awards the chart assumes the normal policy maximum of 200% of base salary for the CEO and 175% of base salary for the CFO.
The rules of the PSP state however that PSP awards cannot normally exceed 225% of base salary and, in exceptional circumstances, 300% of base salary see Policy Table above.
No account has been taken of share price growth, or of dividend shares awarded in respect of the deferred element of bonus and PSP awards over the deferral performance periods.
William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 80 A breakdown of the elements included in the remuneration scenario charts is shown in the table below.
Fixed 000 Annual Bonus 000 PSP 000 1 Base Salary Benets Pension Total Fixed Target Maximum Target Maximum CEO 550.0 26.0 110.0 686.0 467.5 962.5 275.0 1,100.0 2 CFO 420.0 9.5 84.0 513.5 294.0 630.0 184.0 735.0 1 These are the value of benets for 2015 which exclude non-recurring items such as relocation expenses and expenses for attendance at certain sporting events.
Executive directors service contracts or has left employment, all of the bonus The contracts of the executive directors will be payable in cash.
donot provide for any enhanced payments It is the Companys policy that the period in the event of a change of control of the of notice for executive directors will not In the event of an executive directors Company or for liquidated damages.
exceed 12 months and, accordingly, the departure, any outstanding share employment contracts of the executive awards will be treated in accordance Copies of the executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the directors are terminable on 12 months with the relevant plan rules.
The default notice by either party.
treatment under the PSP and the Companys registered ofce: Greenside House, 50 Station Road, Wood Green, EBMS is that any outstanding awards In the event of an executive directors will lapse on cessation of employment.
departure, the Companys policy on termination payments is as follows: In certain prescribed good leaver Remuneration policy across circumstances such as death, theGroup The Company may pay base salary, injury, disability and in any other employer pension contributions and circumstances at the discretion of the The remuneration policy for the executive the cost of benets or if the Company Committee, unvested EBMS shares directors and senior management so decides an amount equal to 10% will normally fully vest on leaving and is designed with regard to the policy ofbase salary at the termination date will be released to the participant within for employees across the Group as a inlieu of notice either as a lump sum one month after the end of the retention whole.
The Committee is kept updated orin monthly instalments.
In exceptional circumstances through the year on general employment The Company will seek to ensure that and at the discretion of the Committee, conditions, base salary increase no more is paid than is warranted in the leaving executive director may budgets, the level of bonus pools and each individual case and will seek to receive the deferred shares prior to payouts, and participation in share plans.
apply the principles of mitigation to theend of the retention period.
The Committee is therefore aware of any proposed payment, where it is how total remuneration at the executive Under the 2014 PSP, an individual appropriate to do so.
director level compares to the total who leaves by reason of death, remuneration of the general population For James Henderson, Philip Bowcock injury, disability, ill-health, statutory of employees.
Common approaches to and under new contracts, monthly redundancy, agreed retirement, sale remuneration policy which apply across payments are reduced in lieu of ofthe employing company or business theGroup include: notice by 100% of the monthly base out of the Group and in any other a consistent approach to pay for annual salary or fee that the executive circumstances at the discretion of director is entitled to receive from any the Committee will normally receive performance is applied throughout theGroup, with annual bonus schemes alternative employment or consultancy apro-rated proportion of outstanding arrangement, during the period PSP awards which can be exercised being offered to all eligible employees: compensation is paid.
up to six months or such longer offering pension, medical and life period as the Committee permits There is no entitlement to payment of assurance benets for the majority and up to 12 months in the case of a cash bonus or associated deferred of employees: death after the performance period shares following notice of termination ensuring that salary increases for each ends and subject to performance by either the employee or Company over that period.
Exceptionally, the category of employee are considered of cessation of employment, and bad Committee may decide to release the taking into account the overall rate of leavers will not receive any bonus PSP shares, following cessation of increase across the Group, as well as in such circumstances.
However, employment subject to the Committees financial and individual performance: where the individual is considered a assessment of performance, to be and good leaver in the event of death or exercised in thesix months after the termination of employment by reason encouraging broad-based share leaving date orsuch longer period of ill health, disability, injury, statutory ownership through the use of as the Committee permits and up to redundancy, agreed retirement, sale of all-employee share plans.
12 months in the case of death and employing company or business out in exceptional circumstances the of the Group or at the discretion of the Recruitment policy Committee may decide to allow a Committee, the Companys normal greater number of shares to vest than if The Committees overriding objective policy is that a performance-related the level of vesting was calculated on a is to appoint executive directors with bonus will be paid at the normal time pro-rata basis.
The provisions governing the necessary background, skills and and this will be time pro-rated based the vesting of PSP awards under the experience to ensure the continuing on the proportion of the bonus year for previous PSP are broadly similar and success of the Company.
We recognise which the individual was employed.
If at these awards will vest on the terms set that the increasing pace of change and the time the individual is under notice out in that plan.
technology development in our industry, William Hill PLC Strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2015 report 81 Governance as well as theinternational nature of the such award, the Committee will consider In certain circumstances, the Committee various factors, including the type and will have set a starting salary which is William Hill business, will mean that the Financial right individuals may often be highly quantum of award, the length of the positioned below the relevant market statements performance period and the performance rate and may therefore wish to adjust the sought after.
and vesting conditions attached to each executive directors salary, at a level above The remuneration package for a new forfeited incentive award.
the average increase in the Company, executive director will therefore be set as the individual gains experience and in accordance with the Companys Where an individual is appointed to the establishes a strong performance track approved remuneration policy as set out Board, different performance measures record in the role.
Conversely, the salary on pages 75 to 82 of the DRR, subject may be set for the year of joining the Board may need to be positioned above the to such modications as are described for the annual bonus, taking into account relevant market rate in order to attract the below.
The maximum level of variable the individuals role and responsibilities most appropriate candidate for the role.
remuneration excluding any buyout and the point in the year the executive arrangements that may be offered on director joined.
Benets will be provided in accordance an annual basis to a new executive with the approved policy.
Relocation For an internal appointment, any variable director willbe in accordance with the expenses or allowances, legal fees and pay element granted in respect of the prior individual plan limits, being 175% of salary other costs relating to the recruitment role may be allowed to pay out according in the annual bonus plan and 225% of maybe paid as appropriate.
to its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take salary or 300% of salary in exceptional into account the terms of the executive The Committee recognises that our circumstances in the PSP.
The salary level for shareholders need to fully understand In the majority of cases, where an external anew executive director will be determined the remuneration package for a new with care by the Committee, taking into executive director, and is committed to appointment is made, the individual, on resignation, will forfeit incentive awards account the individuals background, communicating full details and our reasons skills, experience, the business criticality for agreeing the remuneration at the time connected with their previous employment.
The Committee may therefore decide to and nature of the role being offered, the of appointment.
We will clearly identify any Companys circumstances, and taking remuneration elements, which are specic offer further cash or share-based payments to buy out these existing entitlements by into account relevant external and internal to the initial appointment.
Above all, the Committee making awards of a broadly equivalent Fees for a new Non-executive Director value, in the Committees view, under either must exercise its own judgement in orChair will be set in accordance with determining the most appropriate salary the Companys existing incentive plans or theapproved policy.
In determining forthe new appointment.
the appropriate form and amount of any Chairman and Non-executive Directors The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Non-executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy To attract and retain Non-executive Directors of appropriate calibre and experience.
Operation The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by the Committee without the Chairman present.
The remuneration policy for the Non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, is determined by a sub-committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and the executive directors, within the limits set by the Articles of Association.
Based on independent surveys of fees paid to Non-executive Directors of similarly sized companies to William Hill, remuneration is set taking account of the commitment and responsibilities of the relevant role.
Opportunity The Chair receives a single fee to cover all his Board duties.
Non-executive Directors receive a fee for carrying out their duties, together with additional fees for those Non-executive Directors who chair the primary Board committees and the Senior Independent Director.
Details of current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
They are engaged by letters of appointment, which are terminable by either party with no notice period and no compensation in the event of such termination.
Non-executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys incentive schemes and are not eligible to join the Companys pension and benets schemes.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and would be expected to serve for an additional three-year term, subject to satisfactory performance and annual re-election at the AGM.
Non-executive Directors may then be requested to serve for afurther three-year term subject to rigorous review at the relevant time and agreement with the director.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee engages proactively with the Companys major shareholders.
For example, when any material changes are made to the remuneration policy, the Committee Chair will inform major shareholders of these in advance and will offer a meeting to discuss details as required.
