William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 72 DEAR SHAREHOLDER, I AM PLEASED TO PRESENT THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATIONREPORT DRR FOR THE FINANCIAL PERIODWHICHENDEDON29 DECEMBER 2015.
Imelda Walsh Chair, Remuneration Committee 2 Background and Business Context As such the Committee will review the profit was below the threshold, there was vesting outcomes to ensure they fairly no annual bonus payable for 2015, despite We continue to operate in a highly reect the Groups overall performance.
the Directors strong performance against competitive international gambling market, Our approach to this issue is discussed their individual objectives.
and, as expected, 2015 was a challenging inmore detail on page 83. year and this is reected in the outcome The 2013 PSP was based 50% on the of the incentive plans maturing in 2015.
The Remuneration Committee the Companys relative TSR over three years Committee continues to believe that However, the Company did achieve a and 50% on the Companys aggregate full-year Group operating profit of 291.4m, setting incentive target ranges which EPS over 20132015.
The Companys recognise the substantial challenges facing which was in line with market expectations, TSR ranking was below median and its and in spite of an additional 87m in UK William Hill, but also provide the potential aggregate adjusted EPS of 83.4p was of significant reward for industry leading gambling duties.
below the threshold target of 89.0p.
performance, strikes the right balance.
We reviewed those industry specic tax 1 Net revenue remains an important KPI The Committee reviewed the impact of the and regulatory changes which had not for our business see our KPIs on page changes which are now affecting or will been anticipated when the target range 21 and particularly given the continuing shortly affect the business and concluded was set and even if an adjustment had consolidation in our industry.
Growing net that for 2016 this did not necessitate a been applied, the aggregate adjusted EPS 1 revenue is essential in all areas of our revision to our existing Remuneration outcome would still have been below the business and as we continue to develop Policy.
We will continue to operate within threshold.
Therefore, the whole of the 2013 new markets, for 2016 we are including net our Policy for 2016.
However, there are PSP award lapsed.
1 revenue as one of the targets in the annual some changes in the way the existing bonus plan, alongside operating profit and During the year, Neil Cooper resigned and Policy will be applied and details are individual objectives.
was replaced as Chief Financial officer by provided below.
Philip Bowcock from 1 November 2015 As can be seen from our Strategic Report, Since our Remuneration Policy was and the Committee followed good practice we continue to innovate and invest in approved in 2014, we will be submitting in respect of both the resignation and the our businesses.
We have in place clearly a Remuneration Policy for shareholders appointment.
Neil received no termination stated strategic priorities and during the to consider and approve at the Annual payment and his various outstanding period good progress was made on them.
General Meeting to be held in 2017. share awards lapsed when he ceased Major initiatives such as Project Trafalgar, Later during 2016 the Committee will employment on 6 November 2015. which brings in-house our front-end consider its approach and will review the customer interfaces in Online, support Philips remuneration was announced to existing Policy, taking into account relevant the market at the time of his appointment.
These are reected factors including ever-evolving good in our longer-term Business Performance His salary was set at 420,000 per practice and also the environment in which annum, which is similar to the salary Measures for mobile and digital revenue, the business operates.
It is too early to which have been included as critical his predecessor was due to receive on conclude whether any material changes 1 January 2016.
Philip had the potential measures in recent Performance Share will be proposed but the principles we Plan PSP awards.
We intend to continue for a time pro-rated bonus for 2015 but, have adopted thus far to ensure our as noted above, no bonus was payable to use the same measures for the 2016 remuneration philosophy drives the right PSP awards, alongside Earnings Per Share for 2015. behaviours whilst offering incentives that EPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR.
reward where the performance delivered Shortly after joining, Philip was granted a In my statement last year, I referred to some is strong, will help to guide us through the PSP award over shares worth 175% of of the headwinds facing our business review.
We shall of course consult with our salary on the same terms as the awards which would impact earnings progression larger shareholders as needed in 2016. made to other executives earlier in the year.
in 2015, including a point of consumption No payments or awards were made to him tax and increased Machine Games Duty.
2015 remuneration to compensate for lost entitlements at his We are also experiencing increased race previous employer.
The 2015 bonus was based 75% on Group eld fees paid to the Australian horseracing 2 operating profit All of Philips remuneration is in accordance and 25% on individual industry.
Changes such as these are objectives.
The Committee set stretching with our shareholder approved policy.
unique to our industry and cannot always Further details about Philips remuneration targets for 2015, which included a Group be anticipated and, furthermore, are 2 operating profit threshold of 300.6m.
are set out on page 84. largely outside the control of management.
However, since the 2015 Group operating
