97 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration report Dear shareholder, One of the key drivers of the Companys success and for the future is the strong, On behalf of the Board I am pleased to experienced and highly capable present our first remuneration report as management team.
a listed company for the financial year ending 31 December 2015.
Therefore, it is important that our remuneration philosophy incentivises The report has been prepared in three oursenior executives in a manner which sections: isaligned to our strategy.
This shareholder letter: Our policy report which sets out the Prior to our IPO in October 2015, Worldpay Directors remuneration policy for all was privately owned and the management Our remuneration Directors of Worldpay Group plc and team previously had personally invested will be subject to a binding vote at into the business.
As a result of the IPO, philosophy and framework our2016 AGM: and the management team continue to own Our annual report on remuneration amaterial number of shares as expressed have a strong emphasis on which sets out details of how our as a percentage of their base salary pay for performance and Directors were paid during the financial andhave agreed to these shares being year 2015 and how our policy will be locked-up for up to three years post-IPO.
are fully aligned with our implemented in the coming year.
This helps demonstrate their on-going Thispart of the report is subject to andpersonal commitment to the strategy.
anadvisory shareholder vote at our continued success of our business.
Worldpay has a track record of delivering Prior to taking on the Chairmanship role, year-on-year growth in revenue and John Allan, CBE I was a member of the relevant pre-IPO profitability.
In turn, this has supported Chairman of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee.
That thesignificant investment that we have Committee Committee spent a significant period of made in our engineering and technology time ensuring the remuneration elements capabilities, which supports the growth would be able to transition into a best and development of our new products practice reward framework expected of forour customers.
These investments will aFTSE 100 company.
As a result of the provide an important growth engine for extensive work undertaken, I am pleased the future and we anticipate that they will the policy report outlines the new reward drive future value for our shareholders.
platform that will be deployed from 2016 and beyond.
This growth in performance was supported by a remuneration framework The Remuneration Committee hopes that with a strong emphasis on pay for you will find the report clear, transparent performance.
As we look forward as and informative and that we can rely on apublicly owned company, we intend your support for our Remuneration Policy tocontinue to apply a remuneration and its implementation during the philosophy which is simple, focused comingyear.
ondelivering exceptional performance and which is aligned with shareholders Business and remuneration context interests, whilst managing risk in a Worldpay is a leader in global payments, sustainable way.
which is a complex and dynamic market.
Our strategy is designed to deliver Our approach to remuneration has, sustainable, recurring growth over therefore, been to carefully balance themedium term by supporting our whatis considered to be best practice for customers with products and services remuneration in a UK-listed environment that enable them to drive their sales, with the need to ensure that the reduce their costs and their risk.
arrangements in place are competitive in the labour markets in which we compete for talent.
98 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration report continued This has resulted in a model where the Performance Share Plan majority of the remuneration package is The long-term incentive arrangements performance based and set at a market forthe Executive Directors will be entirely median level.
Fixed pay is set at median performance-based and fully aligned with levels in comparison to other comparable best practice for UK-listed companies.
companies of our size and complexity.
Thedetails of the proposed targets are Theannual incentive opportunity has setout in the Remuneration report.
historically been paid fully in cash.
From 2016, the Executive Directors bonuses In recognition of the size of the awards, the earned will be one-third deferred into performance targets are set at stretching shares for a period of three years.
levels to ensure that management are only rewarded if significant value is delivered 2015 pay structure toshareholders.
Prior to the IPO, the remuneration of theExecutive Directors was reviewed to Clawback and malus ensure that the arrangements in place In line with the recent guidance in the UK were appropriate in the context of their Corporate Governance Code, all of our roles going forward.
share-based incentive plans include malus and clawback provisions.
A simple remuneration structure is proposed comprising the following Shareholder engagement elements: We engaged with our top 20 shareholders Fixed pay base salary, benefits in January 2016 on our proposed andpension : remuneration approach and the intended Short-term annual bonus: and performance measures to be used in our Long Term Incentive Plan.
We value shareholder feedback and are very Annual bonus encouraged by the support and The annual bonus plan is driven by comments we have received to date.
financial measures relevant to the We hope to receive your support for our business.
For 2015 performance the policy report and our annual report on financial measures chosen were equally remuneration at our forthcoming AGM.
weighted between a profit and cash measure.
We use EBITDA as the main measure of profit and use a proxy measure for cash that focuses management on theunderlying cash generation of the business.
The details of this measure John Allan areshown later in the report.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In addition to these financial measures, 8 March 2016 the bonus plan enables the Committee toset key individual strategic objectives.
These measures provide individuals with astrong line of sight and are aligned to delivering the key strategic objectives of the business to help deliver long-term sustainable growth.
The 2015 bonus is multiplicative in computation and has been since the Group was privately owned.
From 2016, the annual bonus for the Executive Directors will be structured in an additive manner, with 75% based on financial measures and25% on key strategic objectives, asoutlined in the Directors' remuneration policy.
99 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration report: Directors remuneration policy Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Base salary To provide a level of fixed Base salaries are reviewed annually typically with To avoid setting expectations of n a pay which supports the effect from 1 April.
Executive Directors and other recruitment and retention of employees, no maximum salary is When determining salary levels the Remuneration Executives of the calibre to set under the remuneration Committee takes account of the following: deliver the strategy of the policy.
Pay and conditions of the wider workforce business Individual performance Salary increases for Executive Competitive practice in other FTSE 100 companies Directors will normally be aligned and organisations with whom Worldpay directly with those of the wider competes for talent.
Increases may be made above this level to take account of individual circumstances, which may include: Increases to reflect an individuals development and performance in role.
For example, where a new incumbent is appointed on a below market salary Increase in the size or scope of the role or responsibilities.
Pension To provide appropriate Executive Directors may receive a cash allowance, Executive Directors may receive a n a levels of retirement benefit.
contributions into the Worldpay Pension Scheme, a maximum contribution from the defined contribution scheme or a combination thereof.
company of 20% of salary per annum.
Benefits To provide a marketExecutive Directors may receive various market Benefits for Executive Directors n a competitive level of competitive benefits, which may include: a car are set at a level which the benefits.
allowance, use of a driver, reimbursed travel expenses, Remuneration Committee private medical and annual health check, disability and considers to be appropriate life assurance.
against wider employee benefits as well as competitive practice in Where appropriate, other benefits may be provided to other FTSE 100 companies and take account of individual circumstances, such as but organisations with whom not limited to: expatriate allowances, relocation Worldpay directly competes for expense, housing allowance and education support.
Annual bonus and deferred annual bonus The role of the annual bonus Performance is assessed on an annual basis.
The maximum annual bonus Bonuses are based on a is to incentivise strong opportunity is 200% of base combination of stretching Targets are set by the Remuneration Committee at the financial performance and salary per annum.
annual financial and start of the financial year.
At the end of the year, the reward the delivery of the non-financial strategic Committee determines the level of bonus to be paid The current maximum bonus business strategy on an performance measures, taking into account the extent to which these targets levels applying to each of the annual basis.
with the majority of the have been achieved.
Executive Directors are included bonus assessed against Deferral into shares in the annual remuneration The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic financial measures.
bonus outcomes both upwards and downwards shareholders.
The Remuneration including to zero to ensure alignment of pay with Committee will determine performance, e. g. in the event performance is the weighting between impacted by unforeseen circumstances outside of different metrics each management control.
year according to The annual bonus is normally delivered two-thirds in business priorities.
cash and one-third is compulsorily deferred into shares For target performance, for a period of at least three years.
Executives may up to 50% of the maximum elect to voluntarily defer more than one-third of their bonus opportunity may be bonus into shares.
Dividend equivalents will be paid in cash or additional Further details, including shares once the deferred shares are released.
the performance measures set for each year, are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
100 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration report: Directors remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Performance Share Plan 'PSP' The role of the PSP is to Awards under the PSP will normally be made in the The maximum PSP opportunity is Vesting of the PSP is incentivise and reward form of nil cost options over shares but may be made 300% of base salary per annum.
subject to continued Executive Directors for in other forms such as conditional or forfeitable shares employment during the The current PSP opportunities achieving the long-term or a payment made in cash.
performance period and applying to each of the Executive performance objectives of the achievement of key Awards will be calculated based on a percentage of Directors are included in the the Company which are financial and strategic salary and the market share price at grant in annual remuneration report.
aligned to the strategic performance conditions accordance with the rules.
which are aligned to the Prior to awards being granted each year the Companys strategic plan.
The PSP also acts as a performance conditions and targets are set to ensure retention tool.
At least 50% of a PSP they remain appropriately stretching and aligned to award will be based on the strategy of the business.
The PSP has a performance period of at least three Threshold performance years and a minimum vesting period of three years.
will result in up to 25% of a Awards will normally be subject to an additional PSP award vesting.
No holding period with 50% of the award being received part of a PSP award will after four years and the remaining 50% after five years.
vest for performance Dividend equivalents may be paid in cash or additional below the threshold.
shares on LTIP awards that vest.
Further details, including The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic the performance targets outcome of the PSP to ensure the outcome takes attached to the PSP in account of any major changes to the Company e. g. as respect of each year, are a result of mergers and acquisitions and is a fair disclosed in the annual reflection of the performance of the Company.
All-employee share plans Sharesave 'SAYE' to be launched in 2016 Provides all UK employees, UK employees may be eligible to participate in this Employees are limited to saving n a including Executive HMRC approved employee share scheme, which is a maximum in line with the Directors, the opportunity operated in line with the HMRC requirements.
to voluntarily invest in Company shares and be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Similar plans may be operated for employees in other countries in which Worldpay operates.
Share Incentive Plan 'SIP' Provide all employees, UK employees may be eligible to participate in this The maximum opportunity for n a including Executive HMRC approved employee share scheme.
awards will be set in line with Directors the opportunity to HMRC limits.
There are no present plans to utilise this plan in 2016. receive and invest in Company shares and be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Legacy Plans Transition Award Plan The role of the Transition Awards under the Transition Award Plan were made on 833,333 shares were awarded to n a Award Plan is to provide a a one-off basis upon listing.
strong alignment with Executive Directors are required to hold at least 100% 416,666 shares were awarded to shareholders and act as a of basic salary in Worldpay Group plc shares for 36 the CFO.
retention tool during the months from the Admission Date as well as be subject initial years of Worldpay as a 416,666 shares were awarded to to continued employment.
the Vice Chairman and Executive Dividend equivalents may be paid in cash or additional Director.
shares on awards under the Transitional Award Plan that vest.
101 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the policy table PSP Scenario analysis Payments outside policy In respect of the PSP, the Committee The charts on the following page provide The Committee reserves the right to make regularly reviews the performance an estimate of the potential future reward any remuneration payments and measures to ensure that they are aligned opportunities for the Executive Directors, payments for loss of office including with the Companys strategy in light of the and the potential split between the exercising any discretions available to it in long-term strategic plan and with our different elements of remuneration under connection with such payments shareholders interests over the longer term.
three different performance scenarios: notwithstanding that they are not in line Minimum, Target and Maximum.
with the policy set out in this report where Targets for both the annual bonus and PSP the terms of the payment were agreed 1 are reviewed annually against a number of Non-Executive Director remuneration before the policy came into effect or 2 at internal and external reference points.
The Chairman and Non-Executive a time when the relevant individual was Targets are set on a sliding scale at levels the Directors do not have service agreements, not a Director of the Company, and in the Committee considers to be appropriately but are engaged on the basis of a letter of opinion of the Committee, the payment stretching for the level of award delivered.
In line with the UK was not in consideration of the individual Corporate Governance Code September becoming a Director of the Company.
Remuneration policy for other employees 2014 guidelines, all Directors are subject The remuneration policy for Executive to re-election annually at the AGM.
Clawback and malus Directors in general is more heavily weighted The Committee has the discretion to scale towards variable pay than for other employees.
It is the policy of the Board of Directors back known as malus Deferred Share The majority of employees participate in an that Non-Executive Directors are not Awards made under the Annual Bonus annual bonus plan, but PSP awards are only eligible to participate in any of the Plan, Performance Share Plan awards and made to the most senior c. 80 individuals in Companys bonus, long-term incentive or awards under the Transition Award Plan the Group.
Individuals below this level may pension schemes.
prior to the satisfaction of awards in the receive annual awards of restricted stock event that results are materially misstated, which vest after three years.
Details of the policy on fees paid to our there is gross misconduct or significant Non-Executive Directors are set out in the reputational damage.
The Companys approach to annual salary table on the following page.
reviews is consistent across the Group, Where Deferred Share Awards made under with consideration given to the level of the Annual Bonus Plan, Performance experience, responsibility, individual Share Plan awards or awards under the performance and salary levels for Transition Award Plan have vested the comparable roles in comparable companies.
Committee have the discretion to clawback awards up to the fifth All UK employees may be eligible to anniversary of the grant of the awards in participate in the Companys SAYE and SIP the circumstances described above.
plans on identical terms and those outside of the UK in comparable plans where Cash bonuses can also be clawed back in appropriate.
the circumstances described above up to the third anniversary of payment.
Shareholder alignment The Committee recognises the Performance measure selection and importance of aligning Executive approach to target setting Directors and shareholder interests Annual bonus through executives building up significant The annual bonus performance measures shareholdings in the Company.
Executive are selected to provide an appropriate Directors are expected to acquire a balance between incentivising Executive significant number of shares over a period Directors to meet the key financial targets of five years and retain these until of the business for the year and retirement from the Board of Directors.
incentivising them to achieve specific The shareholding requirement is 300% of strategic objectives.
The particular salary for the CEO and 200% of salary for measures each year are chosen to ensure all other Executive Directors.
Details of the focus on the key objectives aligned with Executive Directors current personal the strategy of the business in each shareholdings are provided in the annual financial year.
report on remuneration on page 109.
102 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration report: Directors remuneration policy continued SCENARIO ANALYSIS 000 PHILIP JANSEN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Minimum 1,054 100% 1,054 Target 46% 36% 18% 2,329 Maximum 24% 38% 38% 4,454 RICK MEDLOCK, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Minimum 100% 608 Target 51% 33% 16% 1,196 Maximum 28% 37% 35% 2,158 RON KALIFA, VICE CHAIRMAN AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Minimum 100% 584 Target 51% 33% 16% 1,142 Maximum 28% 37% 35% 2,057 Fixed pay Bonus LTIP The scenario analysis charts are based on the following assumptions: Minimum Base salary as at 31 December 2015 plus pension and fixed allowances.
Target Minimum plus Target annual bonus including deferred element and represents 50% of maximum bonus plus Threshold LTIP opportunity 25% of maximum.
Maximum Minimum plus Maximum annual bonus including deferred element plus Maximum LTIP opportunity.
Non-Executive Director remuneration Component and objective Approach of the Company Fees The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board of Directors, with To attract and retain Nonrecommendations provided by the Chairman and CEO.
The fees of the Chairman are determined Executive Directors of the by the Remuneration Committee.
highest calibre with broad Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and commercial experience asChairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Members of the Audit, relevantto the Company.
Remuneration, Nomination and Risk Committees also receive an additional fee.
Fee levels may be reviewed annually.
Fees are reviewed by taking into account external advice on best practice and competitive levels, in particular at FTSE 100 companies.
Time commitment and responsibility are also taken into account when reviewing fees.
Chairman and Non-Executive fees are paid in cash.
The Committee reimburses the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for reasonable expenses in performing their duties and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these duties.
For any Non-Executive Director that is based overseas, the Company will meet travel and accommodation expenditure as required to fulfil Non-Executive duties.
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year underreview are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Aggregate fees are limited to 3.0m by the Companys Articles of Association.
103 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Approach to recruitment remuneration Where an individual has contractual The Companys policy on any termination External appointment commitments made prior to their payments is to consider the When determining the remuneration promotion to Executive Director level, the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, package for a new Executive Director, the Company will continue to honour these taking into account the relevant Committee will take into account all arrangements even in instances where contractual terms in the executives relevant factors based on the they would not otherwise be consistent service contract and the circumstances of circumstances at that time.
This may with the prevailing Executive Director the termination.
include factors such as the calibre of the remuneration policy at the time of individual, the jurisdiction the candidate appointment.
The table on the following page was recruited from, the candidates current summarises how awards under each reward opportunity and the scope of the Non-Executive Directors incentive plan are typically treated in role to which they are being appointed.
In recruiting a new Non-Executive specific circumstances, with the final Director, the Remuneration Committee treatment remaining subject to the Typically, the package will be aligned to the will use the policy as set out in the table on Committees discretion as provided under Companys remuneration policy as set out page 102.
A base fee in line with the the rules of the plan.
However, should there be a current fee schedule would be payable for commercial rationale for doing so, the membership of the Board of Directors, External appointments Remuneration Committee has the with additional fees payable for acting as With the approval of the Board of discretion to include any other Senior Independent Non-Executive Directors in each case, and subject to the remuneration elements which are not Director, as Chairman of the Audit, overriding requirements of the Company, included in the on-going remuneration Remuneration and Risk Committees, and Executive Directors may accept one policy, subject to the overall limit on for being a member of the Audit, external appointment as a Non-Executive variable remuneration set out below.
The Remuneration, Nomination and Risk Director of another company and retain Committee does not intend to use this Committees.
the fees paid in this role.
Details of discretion to make non-performance external appointments and the associated incentive payments and is always mindful Service contracts and exit fees received are included in the annual of the need to pay no more than is payment policy report on remuneration.
Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for termination, Consideration of conditions elsewhere in The overall limit of variable remuneration are carefully considered by the the Company will be as set out in the policy table taking Committee.
In accordance with general The Committee does not consult with into account the maximum value of the market practice, each of the Executive employees specifically on executive annual bonus and the maximum awards Directors has a rolling service contract remuneration policy.
However, the under the PSP i. e. 500% of salary.
which is terminable on 12 months notice Committee considers pay practices and this practice will also apply for any across the Company and is mindful of the The Committee may make an award in new Executive Directors.
salary increases applying across the rest respect of a new appointment to buy out of the business in relevant markets when incentive arrangements forfeited on In such an event, the compensation considering salaries for Executive leaving a previous employer, i. e. over and commitments in respect of their contracts Directors.
above maximum limit on variable could amount to one years remuneration remuneration set out above.
In doing so, based on base salary, benefits in kind and Consideration of shareholder views the Committee will consider relevant pension rights during the notice period.
The Committee considers shareholder factors including any performance Termination payments may take the form views received during the year and at the conditions attached to these awards, the of payments in lieu of notice.
Payments Annual General Meeting each year, as well likelihood of those conditions being met would be made on a phased basis and as guidance from shareholder and the time over which they would have subject to mitigation.
representative bodies more broadly, in vested.
The intention is that the value of shaping remuneration policy.
This any buy-out award would be no higher Copies of Executive Director service feedback, and any additional feedback than the expected value of the forfeited contracts are available to view at the received from time to time, will then be arrangements and made on a like-for-like Companys registered office.
considered as part of the Companys basis.
It is the If the employment is terminated by the Committees intention to consult with Internal promotion Company, the Remuneration Committee major shareholders in advance of making In cases of appointing a new Executive retains the discretion to settle any other any material changes to remuneration Director by way of internal promotion, the amounts reasonably payable to the arrangements.
policy will be consistent with that for Executive Director including legal fees external appointees, as detailed above.
incurred in connection with the termination and fees for outplacement services.
104 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration report: Directors remuneration policy continued Awards under each incentive plan Reason for cessation Timing of vesting payment Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Voluntary resignation or Not applicable No bonus to be paid for the financial year.
termination with cause All other circumstances Following the end of the Bonuses will be paid only to the extent that objectives set at the financial year at the beginning of the plan year have been met.
Any such bonus will be paid usual bonus payment on a pro-rata basis for the period employed.
date Deferred shares Termination for cause Not applicable Awards lapse.
Any other circumstances At the end of the normal Awards will vest in full at the end of the deferral period.
vesting period PSP Voluntary resignation or Not applicable Unvested awards lapse.
termination with cause Ill-health, injury, permanent After the end of the The Committee determines whether and to what extent outstanding disability, or any other reason that relevant performance awards vest based on the extent to which performance conditions have the Committee determines in its period been achieved and pro-rated to take into account the proportion of the absolute discretion performance period in employment.
Death As soon as possible Unvested awards will fully vest.
after date of death Change of control On change of control Awards will vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied unless the Committee determines that the performance conditions should not apply.
Awards will also be reduced pro-rata to take into account the proportion of the performance period not completed, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, where appropriate.
Transitional awards Voluntary resignation or Not applicable Unvested awards lapse.
termination with cause Ill-health, injury, permanent After the end of the Awards would vest at the end of the vesting period, but be reduced to disability, or any other reason that vesting period reflect the proportion of the vesting period in employment.
the Committee determines in its absolute discretion Death As soon as possible Unvested awards will fully vest.
after date of death Change of control On change of control Awards will vest but be reduced pro-rata to take into account the proportion of the vesting period completed, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
105 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration report: Annual report on remuneration The following section provides details of In respect of the Chairman, the Single total figure of remuneration for how our remuneration policy was Executive Directors and Executive Executive Directors audited implemented during the year ended Committee members determines: Table 1, below sets out a single figure for the 31 December 2015.
Terms and conditions of employment, total remuneration received by each including the Executive Directors Executive Director for 2015 from their date Remuneration Committee membership service agreements: of appointment.
As the Executive Directors in 2015 The level of remuneration including only became Directors of Worldpay Group As of 31 December 2015, the Remuneration base salary, benefits, pension, annual plc on 3 July 2015, no prior year figures have Committee was made up of the following bonus and long-term incentives : been shown.
The values of each element of three Non-Executive Directors: Performance measures and targets remuneration are based on the actual value for annual bonus and long-term delivered, where known.
John Allan Chairman incentive plans.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 2.
Martin Scicluna The Chairman of the Board of Directors 31 December 2015 audited and the CEO are responsible for evaluating Annual bonus in respect of 2015 3.
Sir Michael Rake and making recommendations to the performance Board of Directors on the remuneration of The payments under the annual bonus for Subsequently, on 29 January 2016, Sir the Non-Executive Directors.
Members of 2015 will be made in cash and relate to the Michael Rake stepped down from the the Remuneration Committee and any annual bonus plan that was set at the start Committee and Deanna Oppenheimer person attending its meetings do not of the financial year, prior to the listing of was appointed as a member.
participate in any discussion or decision the Company.
Changes have been made on their own remuneration.
to the annual bonus plan for 2016 to The Chairmans membership of the simplify arrangements and bring the plan Remuneration Committee was permitted Following the IPO, the Remuneration more in line with best practice for a listed under the Code as he was independent on Committee held one meeting during the company, further details of which are appointment as Chairman provision D. 3.1. year.
This was held on 8 December 2015. provided on page 99.
The Committees purpose is to assist Advisers The CEO had a target bonus opportunity of theBoard of Directors in fulfilling its Deloitte LLP assisted the Company on 100% of base salary and the other oversight responsibility by ensuring that remuneration-related matters in the Executive Directors a target opportunity of remuneration policy and practices build-up to the IPO and was formally 80% of salary with the exception of the rewardfairly and responsibly: are linked to approved asadvisor to the Remuneration Executive Director and Vice Chairman who corporate and individual performance: and Committee on 8 December 2015 following had an historic arrangement whereby his take account of the generally accepted the listing of the Company.
Deloitte LLP is a target was 100% of base salary and which principles of good governance.
member of the Remuneration Consultants was amended in-line with policy on Group and, as such, voluntarily operates 1 September 2015.
If maximum performance The Committee determines and under the Code of Conduct in relation to is achieved, 2x the target opportunity may recommends to the Board: executive remuneration consulting in the be received.
For 2015, the annual bonus was The Groups policy on executive UK.
Fees paid to Deloitte as advisors to the assessed taking into account both financial remuneration: Remuneration Committee from the point and personal performance on a The annual report on remuneration to oflisting to 31 December 2015 amounted multiplicative basis.
Financial performance be approved by shareholders: and to12,600.
was assessed against EBITDA and Cash E-C-S see table 2 footnote performance targets, each with a 50% weighting.
Table 1: Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited 1 2 3 4 Name Base salary Taxable benefits Annual bonus LTIP Other Pension benefit Total Philip Jansen 387,882 15,599 637,500 n a 2,000,000 67,122 3,108,103 Rick Medlock 250,000 3,028 300,000 n a 1,000,000 50,000 1,603,028 5 Ron Kalifa 228,032 6,209 294,550 n a 1,000,000 42,122 1,570,913 1 Taxable benefits consist primarily of car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance and PHI where applicable.
2 Cash payment for performance during the year.
See Table 3 on page 106 for details.
3 The values reflect the awards the Executive Directors received under the Transition Award Plan 'TAP' upon IPO which will vest in October 2018 subject to continued employment and a shareholding requirement.
See Table 5 on page 106 for details.
4 Pension benefits in the year comprised of 20% of base salary from 1 September.
Between 3 July and 31 August, the pension allowance of the CEO, CFO, Vice Chairman and Executive Director were 10%, 20% and 15% respectively.
5 Ron Kalifa additionally received a cash payment of 198,065 plus 157,905 Worldpay Group plc shares in lieu of his pre-IPO A class shares held in Ship Luxco Holding & Cy SCA.
The shares are locked in and may only be sold accordingly: one-third for 12 months: one-third for 24 months: and the final third for 36 months.
106 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration report: Annual report on remuneration continued Table 2, opposite provides a summary of Table 2: Summary of the level of performance achieved against each of the financial the level of performance achieved against targets set audited each of the financial targets set.
Threshold Target Maximum Measure Weighting Actual 50% 100% 200% Multiplier Based on the financial multiplier set out 1 EBITDA 50% 405.0m 400.0m 405.0m 413.0m 100% intable 2, the annual bonus payments 2 E-C-S 50% 169.1m 164.1m 169.1m 179.1m 100% foreach Executive Director have been Weighted financial multiplier 100% calculated as shown in table 3, opposite.
1 A downward adjustment from the reported underlying EBITDA of 406.1m was made relating to the The personal multipliers outlined in table3 capitalisation of the new technology platform reward.
were in consideration of the achievement 2 E-C-S: EBITDA less capital expenditure less certain separately disclosed items, which acts as a proxy for cash.
of key strategic objectives set at the start of the financial year.
Thesefocused on the following areas: Successful completion of the IPO.
Table 3: Annual bonus payments for Executive Directors audited Creation of Ambition 2020.
Target bonus opportunity Financial Personal Actual bonus Significant progress in our new Executive % salary multiplier multiplier % salary as at 31 Dec 2015 technology platform.
Philip Jansen 100% 100% 150% 150% Continuous product development.
1 Rick Medlock 80% 100% 150% 86% Increased colleague engagement scores.
Ron Kalifa 100% until 31 August 100% 150% 150% of salary in period 80% from 1 September 100% 150% 120% of salary in period Single total figure of remuneration for 1 Pro-rated from date of joining the Group.
Non-Executive Directors audited Table 4, opposite sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year Table 4: Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited ended 31 December 2015 from their dates of appointment.
Non-Executive Director 2015 fees Sir Michael Rake 141,667 Scheme interests awarded in 2015 1,2 John Allan 43,333 audited 2 Transitional Award Plan 'TAP' Martin Scicluna 53,333 Upon the IPO, Executive Directors and Robin Marshall None other key executives were made a one-off James Brocklebank None award of shares under the TAP.
The objective of these awards is to focus 1 John Allan additionally received a cash payment of 265,663 plus 211,799 Worldpay Group plc shares in lieu of his pre-IPO A class shares held in Ship Luxco Holding & Cy SCA.
The shares are locked in whereby individuals on a successful transition from one-third are available in October 2016 and two-thirds in October 2017. a private to a public company and to retain 2 Also, in connection with the reorganisation that took place prior to the IPO, John Allan and Martin Scicluna key individuals over the next three years.
waived their respective entitlements to any interest in Contingent Value Rights CVRs a separate class of shares in the Company.
In order to recognise the obligations and responsibilities associated with their role as Independent Non-Executive Directors, John Allan and Martin Scicluna received one-off payments from Awards will vest after a period of three AB JV Global S. r. l the then ultimate parent Company of the Company of 1.9m and 365,000 respectively.
At the time they were made, these lump sum payments were not referable to the potential value of the CVRs, years, subject to continued employment which did not have any value for accounting purposes.
50% of the after-tax proceeds from these lump sum and each individual holding shares payments were reinvested in ordinary shares, in respect of which they have entered into a 365-day lock-up representing 100% of base salary for the agreement with the Company and the Underwriters to the IPO.
duration of the vesting period, as shown intable 5, opposite.
Table 5: Scheme interests awarded in 2015 audited Number of Date shares Share Face value Vesting 1 Executive of grant awarded price of award date Philip Jansen 16 10 2015 833,333 2.40 2,000,000 16 10 2018 Rick Medlock 16 10 2015 416,666 2.40 1,000,000 16 10 2018 Ron Kalifa 16 10 2015 416,666 2.40 1,000,000 16 10 2018 1 The share price on the date of listing 16 October 2015 was used to determine the number of shares awarded.
107 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Percentage change in CEO remuneration Table 6: Chief Executive Officers historic pay for 2015 This section is not applicable as the 3 July 2015 to Company only listed on 16 October 2015 Remuneration element 31 December 2015 and as such there is no prior year CEO single figure of remuneration 3,108,103 comparator which can be shown.
Annual bonus award against maximum opportunity 75% LTI award against maximum opportunity n a Relative importance of spend on pay There were no dividends paid or share buybacks implemented in 2015.
For comparison, the total employee Hereceived total fees of 19,400 from Historical CEO pay expenditure is 334.5m as set out in Note 3July 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Table 6, above sets out information 2c in the notes to the financial statements.
regarding the CEOs historic pay from his Ron Kalifa is a Director of Visa Europe and date of appointment on 3 July 2015.
Exit payments made in the year audited Qiwi plc.
The fees for Visa Europe are paid No exit payments were made during the year.
directly to Worldpay and are not passed on Implementation of Executive Director to Ron.
However, he does retain the fees remuneration policy for 2016 Payments to past Directors audited relating to his Qiwi plc appointment which Base salary No payments were made to past Directors amounted to $150,000 in 2015.
Base salaries were set at listing taking into in the year.
account competitive practice for similar Review of past performance roles in other FTSE 100 companies of a External appointments Historical Total Shareholder Return similar size.
The current salaries of the Philip Jansen acts as an advisor to Bain 'TSR' performance Executive Directors, effective from Capital, for which he received a fee of The graph below shows the TSR of the 1 September 2015, are set out below: 75,000.
Philip was also a Non-Executive Company and the FTSE 100 Index over the Current base Director and Chairman of Cucina period from Admission on 16 October 2015 Executive Director salary Investments UK until 20 October 2015 to 31 December 2015.
The index was Philip Jansen 850,000 after which he remained a paid advisor.
selected on the basis that the Company Rick Medlock 500,000 isa member of the FTSE 100 Index.
Ron Kalifa 475,000 The graph shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical holding of 100 invested at The Executive Directors base salaries admission to 31 December 2015. were set in 2015 and will not increase in April 2016 as part of the normal annual pay review.
The Committee intends to review HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE these salaries later this year to ensure they Value of 100 invested at the share price at listing on 16 October 2015 are competitive and reflect the Companys desired market position.
140 Pension 130 All Executive Directors receive a cash 120 allowance of 20% of salary in lieu of a pension contribution.
110 100 Annual bonus For 2016 the CEO will have a maximum 90 bonus opportunity of 200% of salary.
80 Theother Executive Directors will have amaximum bonus opportunity of 160% 70 ofsalary.
50% of the maximum bonus 60 opportunity will be paid for on-target performance.
50 October 2015 December 2015 Worldpay Group plc FTSE 100 108 Worldpay Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration report: Annual report on remuneration continued Two-thirds of any bonus paid will be Table 7: Performance measures to be used to assess the LTIP award granted in 2016 received in cash with the remaining third Threshold Target Maximum Target being deferred into Worldpay Group plc 1 1 Measure Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting shares for a period of three years.
The annual bonus for 2016 will be based on Strategic measures: the following measures and weightings: Customers: Net SME adds 12.5% 30,000 40,000 Measure Weighting New technology platform 12.5% Complete customer Complete customer EBITDA 37.5% migration by migration by 1 January 2018 1 July 2017 Cash metric 37.5% Personal objectives 25% 1 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between the Threshold and Maximum Target.
We intend to disclose the targets in respect of each financial metric on a retrospective basis at the same time the Table 8: Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees performance outcome is disclosed in the remuneration report after the end of each Role Total fee financial year.
1 Chairman 425,000 Non-Executive Director basic fee 70,000 Cash bonuses may be clawed back up to Chairman of Audit Committee 30,000 the third anniversary of payment and any deferred share awards may be subject Chairman of Remuneration Committee 30,000 malus and or clawback up to the fifth Chairman of Risk Committee 30,000 anniversary of the date of grant, in the Member of Audit Committee 10,000 event that results are materially misstated, Member of Remuneration Committee 10,000 there is gross misconduct, or significant Member of Risk Committee 10,000 reputational damage.
Member of Nomination Committee 10,000 Senior Independent Director 30,000 Worldpay LTIP For 2016 the CEO will receive an award 1 Inclusive of all Board fees.
under the Worldpay LTIP with a maximum Note: opportunity of 200% of salary.
The Robin Marshall and James Brocklebank are not entitled to an annual fee.
maximum opportunity for other Executive Directors will be 150% of salary.
The LTIP award granted in 2016 will the migration of customers onto our new Awards under the PSP may be clawed back beassessed against the following technology platform, as these will be key up to the fifth anniversary of the date of performance measures and targets which areas of focus for the business.
The grant in the event that results are materially will be measured over three financial performance target ranges have been set misstated, there is gross misconduct, or years, as shown in table 7, above.
at stretching levels taking into account significant reputational damage.
both internal and external forecasts, with EPS and EBITDA have been selected maximum vesting only occurring for Implementation of Non-Executive asmeasures as they are the financial significant outperformance.
Director remuneration policy for 2016 performance measures which will Chairman and Non-Executive mostclosely reward the delivery of To provide further alignment with Director fees ourgrowth strategy.
shareholders over the longer term The fees payable to the Chairman of anyawards that vest for the Executive theBoard of Directors and other NonThe strategic measures for the PSP awards Management team will be subject to an Executive Directors are outlined in to be made in 2016 will reward the growth additional holding period.
of our customer numbers in our small and shares will be released on the fourth medium segments, as well as completing anniversary of the date of grant and the remaining half released after five years.
109 Overview Worldpay Group plc Strategic report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Executive Directors shareholding Table 9: Executive Directors shareholding at 31 December 2015 audited requirements audited Shares Unvested Unvested In line with Worldpays remuneration policy, owned shares not shares Current Shareholding the CEO is required to hold shares in the outright or subject to subject to shareholding guideline 1 Executive vested performance performance % salary % salary Company equivalent to 300% of base 2 salary 200% of salary for other Executive Philip Jansen 11,262,134 833,333 0 4,072% 300% 2 Directors.
They have five years over which Rick Medlock 5,602,920 416,666 0 3,444% 200% toreach this shareholding requirement.
2 Ron Kalifa 7,593,021 416,666 0 4,912% 200% Table 9, opposite shows the 1 Vested shares remain subject to a time-based lock-in, whereby one-third are available in October 2016, one-third in October 2017 and the final third in October 2018. shareholdingof each Executive Director, 2 The CEO, CFO and Vice Chairman and Executive Director respectively held 823,255,384,185 and 548,836 and any relevant connected persons, CVRsin Ship Luxco Holding & Cy SCA.
against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2015.
Non-Executive Directors shareholding Table 10: Non-Executive Directors shareholding audited audited Table 10, opposite shows the Total number of shares Total number of shares owned as at 16 October owned as at 31 December shareholdings of each Non-Executive Non-Executive Director 2015 2015 Director and their connected persons Sir Michael Rake 83,333 83,333 asat 31 December 2015.
No prior year 1 John Allan 2,652,125 2,652,125 dataisavailable given IPO occurred in 1 Martin Scicluna 495,808 495,808 October2015.
Robin Marshall None None No further shares were acquired by James Brocklebank None None theNon-Executive Directors between 1 All vested shares remain subject to a time-based lock-in, whereby one-third are available in October 2016 31 December 2015 and 7 March 2016. and two-thirds in October 2017, except for 209,792 for John Allan and 40,302 for Martin Scicluna which fully vest in October 2016.
