Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Shareholder information Remuneration Report introduction For the year ended 31 July 2015 In addition to profitable growth, the Company also places a strong Jacky Simmonds emphasis on generating strong cash flow since it enables us to Chair of the reward shareholders with sustainable and progressive dividends.
Remuneration Committee The interim dividend paid to shareholders on 1 May 2015 was 10 per cent higher than last year and the 2015 proposed final dividend of 60.5 pence per share is 10 per cent higher than last year.
The strong cash and profit performance underpinned the bonus payments to the Executive Directors for the year which averaged 89.3 per cent of their maximum levels.
Dear Shareholder In the three years to 31 July 2015, Total Shareholder Return TSR On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors growth enjoyed by shareholders was 24.47 per cent.
As a result, the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 July 2015.
Company achieved a TSR ranking of twenty-third against our FTSE 100 comparator group and therefore 75 per cent of the performance I was delighted to be appointed to the Wolseley plc Board in May shares awarded under the 2012 LTIP in 2012 13 have vested.
2014 and as Chair of the Remuneration Committee from the end of July 2014.
My thanks go to Alan Murray, who previously served as Executive Directors remuneration review Chairman of the Committee, for his support when I took over the role.
During the year, we engaged in consultation with, and sought the In my first annual statement to shareholders, I would like to share views of, our major shareholders and their representative bodies with you both the corporate performance and relative incentive as we developed our thinking on proposed changes to the Policy outcomes for 2014 15 and our thinking on our longer term approach at each stage of the process.
The review and feedback received towards executive remuneration.
We informed shareholders when concluded that the current arrangements were too complex, were we published our Directors Remuneration Report last year that the unable to deliver top quartile pay for top quartile performance and Committee would undertake a review of our Remuneration Policy could be better aligned with shareholders interests.
We listened the Policy during the year against the needs of the business and to all of the feedback that we received and, as a result, we emerging reporting practice.
The Committee took the opportunity refined our proposals where appropriate.
I would like to thank our to consider its reward principles and conducted its review to ensure key stakeholders for the useful feedback which they provided.
that any future remuneration arrangements are aligned with them.
In summary, our changes are intended to: The principles are: ensure the Policy remains aligned with the Companys overall pay to provide remuneration packages that fairly reward Executive philosophy, its strategy and long-term objectives: Directors and senior executives for the contribution they make to the business, having regard to the size and complexity of the promote the long-term success of the Company: Groups business operations and the need to attract, retain and simplify the remuneration structure and make it more easily motivate executives of the highest quality: understood: to have remuneration packages which comprise salary, short-term drive high performance: bonuses, share options, long term incentive awards, benefits-inkind and pension provision: and allow flexibility to meet the needs of the business for at least three years, including, should the need arise, the recruitment of to aim to provide a total cash award of base salary and bonus Executive Directors without the need to amend the Policy: at the median of the market, with the opportunity to earn a higher reward subject to sustained superior financial and align the Policy more closely to the requirements of all stakeholders, individual performance.
governance bodies, the Executive Directors and the Committee: and Performance in 2014 15 reflect the status of the Group which has well regarded USA and During the year ended 31 July 2015, the Company has continued to UK-based Executive Directors and has grown to be one of the perform strongly and our experienced management team has driven 50largest UK-listed companies.
The remuneration received for the year ended 31 July 2015 recognises this strong performance Key changes to the Policy against stretching bonus, 2012 ESOP and 2012 LTIP targets.
The key changes to our Policy are: In the financial year ended 31 July 2015, the Group generated a the introduction of a new 2015 Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 strong trading profit performance which contributed to an increase LTIP with performance conditions which are relevant and in headline EPS of 18.1 per cent to 230.2 pence 2014: 195.0 pence stretching.
Under the 2015 LTIP, the maximum share award will per share restated.
As a result, ESOP awards granted in 2012 have be 350 per cent of base salary at the date of grant and the three vested in full.
The Companys consolidated financial statements performance measures to be applied for the 2015 16 grant are a for the year ended 31 July 2014 have been restated to present the combination of total shareholder return TSR, adjusted earnings French businesses as discontinued operations under IFRS5 and we per share EPS and cash flow from operating activities OpCF.
explain the restatement in more details under the heading ESOP The plan includes recovery and withholding provisions.
If the on page 98. revised Policy and the 2015 LTIP are approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, no further grants or awards will be made to Wolseley plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report introduction continued Executive Directors under the current 2012 ESOP and 2012 LTIP of 1.5 per cent, for the Chief Financial Officer who also has duties plans.
The proposed award levels for the 2015 16 grant are set in Canada an increase of 1.2 per cent, and for the Chief Executive out in the Annual report on remuneration.
In summary, they are Officer, USA an increase of 2.5 per cent.
unchanged for Ian Meakins and John Martin on an expected value As a Committee we continue to keep ourselves aware of developments basis.
However, for Frank Roach, a higher level has been set.
in corporate governance and remuneration.
We will continue to monitor This has been done to rebalance his package towards longer-term such developments and, where appropriate, consider whether it is in performance and reflects the 61 per cent growth in revenues in the best interests of Wolseley and its shareholders to adopt them.
This should ensure it remains competitive in the context of similarly sized businesses in the USA On behalf of the Committee I thank you for your continued support market if Wolseleys long-term performance targets are met: and trust that you find the Directors Remuneration Report informative.
I very much hope that we will receive your support at the introduction of a plan to defer any bonus amounts achieved in the2015 AGM and I will be available at the meeting to respond to excess of target levels into shares for a period of three years if an your questions on any aspect of this Report.
Executive Directors shareholding guidelines have not been met.
The plan includes recovery and withholding provisions which will apply to the annual and deferred bonus in a number of specific circumstances when it is in the interests of the shareholders to do so: Jacky Simmonds Chair of the Remuneration Committee increased levels of shareholding through shareholding guidelines which require Executive Directors to hold shares for a two-year Glossary of terms inDirectors period after vesting for shares acquired under the 2015 LTIP.
The Committee also took the opportunity to increase the level Remuneration Report 2015 of the shareholding guidelines and this was implemented during AGM Annual General Meeting 2014 15: and Code UK Corporate Governance Code an increase in maximum opportunity under the Annual Bonus Plan EPS Adjusted Earnings Per Share to 150 per cent of base salary.
ESPP Employee Share Purchase Plan We intend to maintain our modest approach to bonus levels and the Committee has no current intention to award up to the maximum ISP International Sharesave Plan opportunity for the variable awards within the revised Policy.
This will 2012 ESOP Executive Share Option Plan 2012 instead be available for future appointments should the need arise.
2012 LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 The levels of proposed awards to be made in 2015 16 are set out on 2015 LTIP Proposed Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 pages 91 to 92.
LTI plans 2015 LTIP, 2012 ESOP and 2012 LTIP Following the review, we have agreed that Executive Committee members who are not also Executive Directors will receive share OpCF Cash flow from operating activities awards under the 2015 LTIP.
This alignment across the top level OSP Ordinary Share Plan 2011 of management of the Group provides a consistent approach Policy Directors Remuneration Policy to remuneration to foster a collegiate approach within the senior Remuneration The Large and Medium-sized management team and to ensure all individuals at that level are Reporting Regulations Companies and Groups Accounts and focused on the same strategic outcomes.
orRegulations Reports Regulations 2008 as amended We believe that our revised Policy is appropriate and on behalf of Report Directors Remuneration Report the Committee we recommend it for shareholder support at the forthcoming AGM.
TSR Total Shareholder Return Looking ahead to the year ending 31 July 2016 Key elements of this report Overview Overview On the basis that the Policy set out in this report is approved at the Strategic report Strategic report Governance Governance Financials Financials Shareholder information Shareholder information Remuneration policy Annual report on remuneration 1.
Details of how the Company will implement the Implementation of Policy for the year ending Performance targets are set as 80 per cent of bonus opportunity on 2015 AGM, the new remuneration arrangements will apply from existing and revised Policy set out below for this financial year are financial performance 20 per cent is based on cash-to-cash days, This section of the Directors Remuneration Report has been 31 July 2016 provided in the Annual report on remuneration section starting on 30 per cent on trading profit and 30 per cent on gross profit and prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
Information 20 per cent of bonus opportunity on personal strategic objectives.
Committee completed a review of executive remuneration which Specic individual objectives were set at the beginning of the sought to ensure continued alignment with the Companys strategy The overall aim of the Policy is to support and promote the long-term For the purposes of this Annual report on remuneration: and that, going forward, it remains a simplied package more closely success of the Company.
Within this, the key objective is to provide 2015 16 financial year.
1 any payments made in US dollars have been converted to aligned to the requirements of all stakeholders.
Following the review, a package that is sufficient to attract, retain and treat fairly Executive sterling.
The calculations are made based on the annual average For the 2015 16 financial year, the threshold for bonus payments in the Committee proposes to make a number of changes to the Directors currently in position or any new Executive Director, whether exchange rate for the year ended 31 July 2015 of $1.5599:1 relation to ongoing trading profit will be set at or above the outturn Policy, which was approved by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
hired externally or promoted from within the Wolseley Group.
trading profit for the 2014 15 financial year on a constant currency this financial year onwards and it is intended that awards under the In determining each element of pay and the package as a whole, the forthe year ended 31 July 2014 of $1.6422:1 : and basis, with the exception of Canada.
This section sets out the revised Policy, which will be put forward Committee will take into account all relevant factors including, but 2 any estimated share values are determined using a share price The Board considers that the performance targets for 2015 16 are for shareholder approval at the AGM on 1 December 2015 2015 not limited to, the skills and experience of the individual, the market of 4099 pence, being the average closing mid-market quotation AGM.
If the revised Policy is approved, it will take effect immediately rate for an individual of that experience, the importance of securing for Wolseley plc shares for the three-month period ended commercially sensitive and they are not included for this reason.
following the 2015 AGM, and it is intended to apply for a period of 31 July 2015.
The Committee will disclose the targets and performance against at least three years from the 2015 AGM.
It contains details of the the best person for the role, as well as considering the wider pay them in the Annual report on remuneration next year, depending on environment both internally and externally.
Companys Policy to govern future payments that will be made to Executive Directors considerations of commercial sensitivity at that time.
All remuneration and loss of ofce payments will only be The Annual report on remuneration provides, in the section entitled made if they are consistent with the approved Policy.
Report for the year ended 31 July 2015, details of the remuneration Base salary Long term incentives 2015 LTIP will be made to Executive Directors shortly after the 2015 paid to Directors in accordance with the Policy approved at the Subject to shareholder approval, this revised Policy will apply to The Remuneration Committee agreed to an increase to the base Long term incentive awards will be made after the 2015 AGM 2014 AGM.
salary levels of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 August subject to shareholder approval of the 2015 LTIP rules and the any remuneration and loss of ofce payments made on or after 2015, as set out below.
Current base salary levels, and those which Policy at the levels set out in the table below: applied during the year ended 31 July 2015, are as follows: 2015 LTIP award value as Annualised base salary % of salary 2015 16 2014 15 2.
Remuneration policy tables 000 3 000 % increase I Meakins Group CEO 300% Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity J Martin Group CFO 240% AGM.
The weighting of the performance measures for the first share I Meakins Group CEO 859.8 847.1 1.5% J Martin Group CFO 531.0 524.7 1.2% F Roach CEO, USA 275% Future policy table: Executive Directors F Roach CEO, USA 701.61 684.52 2.5% Base salary The award levels for Ian Meakins and John Martin are unchanged 1 The total to be received by Frank Roach in 2015 16 will be paid in US dollars as $1,094,391.
from those granted in 2014 15 under the existing schemes on an To pay Executive Directors Base salary is normally set at or around the mid-market level of other companies comparable on 2 The total received by Frank Roach in 2014 15 was paid in US dollars as $1,067,698.
expected value basis assuming 2.5 options under the 2012 ESOP at a level commensurate the basis of size, internationality and complexity with the opportunity to exceed this level to reward 3 For context, the average Group wide salary increase was 1.5 per cent.
For UK-based employees the average salary increase was 1.5 per cent, whilst for USA-based employees it was 2.5 per cent.
are exchanged for one award under the 2015 LTIP.
However, for with their contribution to the sustained individual high performance.
Frank Roach, a higher level has been set.
This has been done Company and appropriately Base salary is paid monthly in cash in the currency specified in the employment contract.
Pension and benefits to rebalance his package towards longer-term performance and awards under the 2015 LTIP TSR, EPS and OpCF will be applied in based on skill, experience and Base salary may be increased each year, typically in line with the general level of increase awarded UK-based Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in reects the 61 per cent growth in revenues in the US business performance achieved.
toother employees in the Group.
lieu of membership of the Group pension scheme, being 32 since FY2009 10.
This should ensure it remains competitive in the The level of salary paid There is an annual review of base salary by the Committee although an out-of-cycle review may be context of similarly sized businesses in the USA market if Wolseleys should be set at a level that per cent ofbase salary for Ian Meakins and 25 per cent of base long-term performance targets are met.
conducted if the Committee determines it appropriate.
The review will take into account individual salary for John Martin.
USA-based Executive Director, Frank is considered appropriate to and corporate performance, percentage increases awarded to the general workforce, prevailing Roach, participates in the Ferguson dened contribution pension The extent to which the 2015 LTIP awards proposed to be granted aid the recruitment, retention market and economic conditions and governance practices.
and motivation of high calibre arrangements and receives a Company contribution of 23 per cent in December 2015 will vest will be dependent on the following The Committee retains the exibility to award larger increases than those awarded to the general of base salary.
Frank Roachs current year pension benets include performance targets: comparative TSR: EPS growth: and cash ow Executive Directors required to workforce where it considers it appropriate and necessary such as in exceptional circumstances a 401k plan and Ferguson Executive Retirement Plan FERP from operating activities OpCF.
ensure the successful formation or if an individual assumes a new or expanded role with further scope and responsibility.
These plans have a normal retirement age of 65. and delivery of the Groups The awards will be subject to the three performance conditions, strategy and management of considered appropriate, larger increases may be phased over more than one year.
Bonus payments are not included in the calculation of the Company The Committee retains the exibility to review and decide on a case-by-case basis whether it is pension contributions.
Benets provided to Executive Directors each with a weighting of one-third of award opportunity.
its business in the challenging appropriate to award increases to allow a newly appointed Executive Director whose base salary aredetailed inthe Remuneration table on page 96.
The TSR element of the 2015 LTIP awards will vest as set out in the international environment in which it operates.
has been set below the mid-market level to progress quickly to or around that mid-market level once table below comprising one-third of the total award opportunity : expertise and performance has been proven.
Annual bonus Percentage of award Wolseleys TSR position in comparator group1 subject to TSR which will vest The base salaries for the Executive Directors for the current year are set out in the Annual report The threshold, target and maximum bonus opportunities for each of on remuneration.
the Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
Upper quartile 100% 2 Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Threshold Target Maximum Between median and upper quartile 25100% Assessment of performance measures: the Committee considers the individual salaries of the Executive Directors at a Committee meeting As % of salary At median 25% each year, taking into account the factors listed in operation and opportunity above.
I Meakins Group CEO 80% 100% 120% Below median 0% In line with our Policy, the Committee undertook an annual review Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to base salary: there are no provisions for the recovery of J Martin Group CFO 70% 90% 110% 1 F wu itlh l c n oo n a std itd uie tin on t m s or em eb xe cl rusi s oon f th se F. TSE 100 index at the beginning of the performance period, sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to base salary.
F Roach CEO, USA 80% 110% 140% 2 Awards vest on a straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
For relative TSR performance targets, the Committee bases the relative TSR targets on a list of comparator companies, being Wolseley plc Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 of the Executive Directors base salaries.
For the year ahead, these Remuneration p77 102 v106.
indd 91 08 10 2015 18:08 will be increased by no more than the average base salary increases Remuneration policy Annual report on remuneration for all Wolseley employees in the jurisdiction in which the Executive on pages 79 to 91 on pages 91 to 102 Director is based for the Group Chief Executive this is an increase This Report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Summary of the Groups financial performance the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the Remuneration Reporting Regulations.
duringthe year ended 31 July 2015 Furthermore, the Board has also applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors see pages 6 to 7 remuneration contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code updated in September 2014.
Wolseley plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
