STRATEGIC REPORT Key risks and mitigations The Board has delegated the responsibility for risk Effective risk assessment underpins the oversight to the Chief Executive.
He is assisted by the successful delivery of our strategy.
Integrity Group Risk Committee GRC in managing this and responsibility are central to our values 3i Groups Pillar 3 responsibility, guided by the Boards appetite for risk and document can be at 3i and are embedded in our approach to any specific limits set.
The GRC maintains the Group risk found at review, which summarises the Groups principal risks, risk management.
associated mitigating actions and key risk indicators, and www.
com This section explains how we control and manage the risks identifies any changes to the Groups risk profile.
It outlines the key risks, our assessment of review is updated quarterly and the Chief Executive their potential impact on our business in the context of the provides an update at each Audit and Compliance current environment and how we mitigate them.
Committee meeting where the Committee members contribute views and raise questions.
The last risk APPROACH TO RISK GOVERNANCE appraisal was completed in early May 2015.
The Board seeks to achieve an appropriate balance Following the implementation of AIFMD in July 2014, between taking risk and generating returns for wefurther augmented risk governance with a separate shareholders and is responsible for risk assessment, the Risk Management Function.
This group meets ahead of the risk management process and for the protection of the GRC meetings to consider separate risk reports for Groups reputation and brand integrity.
It considers the eachAIF managed by the Group, including areas such most significant risks facing the Group and uses asportfolio composition, operational updates and team quantitative analyses, such as the vintage control and changes, which are then also considered by the GRC.
weekly liquidity reporting, where appropriate.
NonAssurance on the robustness and effectiveness of the executive oversight of the risk management process is Groups overarching risk management processes and exercised through the Audit and Compliance Committee compliance with relevant policies is provided to the Audit with respect to standards of integrity, financial reporting, and Compliance Committee through the independent risk management, going concern and internal control.
The assessment by Internal Audit and the work of Group Audit and Compliance Committees activities are discussed Compliance on regulatory risks.
further in that Committees report on page 65.
In addition to the above, a number of other committees contribute to the Groups overall risk governance structure, as set out in the diagram on page 39.
READ MORE Further information on the Audit and Compliance Committees activities can be found on page 65 38 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT 3is RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Overview of risk management framework and governance structure Treasury Transactions Audit and Compliance Board Committee Committee Considers risk implications of specific Determines the Groups risk appetite Receives reports from the Director treasury transactions as required.
as part of strategy setting.
ofInternal Audit on the Groups risk management processes and system A quorum of members meet Overall responsibility for maintaining of internal controls.
a system of internal controls that ensures an effective risk management Receives reports from the Director and oversight process operates ofGroup Compliance on regulatory across the Group.
Brand and Values Committee Meets at least six times a year.
Updated at each meeting on the outputs of the latest Group Risk Committee meeting with the Considers risks to the Groups brand, opportunity to contribute views values and reputation as required.
Meets at least six times a year.
Chief Executive Investment Committee Executive Committee Group Risk Committee Considers risk in the context of Principal decision-making body in Delegated responsibility for risk individual investments, portfolio respect of managing the business.
management and oversight across the management decisions and Group, reflecting the Boards appetite Meets monthly.
for risk and any specific limits set.
Maintains the Group risk review, which summarises the Groups risk exposure and associated mitigation or response plan based on risks identified.
Conflicts Committee Meets four times a year to consider the Group risk review, including Deals with potential conflict issues.
adequacy of risk mitigation and controls.
Chairman provides update at each meeting of the Audit and Compliance Committee.
Committees of the Board Committees of the Chief Executive Independent review of potential conflict issues Risk reporting to Audit and Compliance Committee 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 39 STRATEGIC REPORT Key risks and mitigations continued RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK RISK REVIEW PROCESS The Groups risk management framework is designed to The Group risk review process includes the monitoring of support the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
key strategic and financial metrics considered to be Further details on indicators of potential changes in its risk profile.
The 3is approach as a The key principles that underpin risk management in the review includes, but is not limited to, the following responsible Group are: reference data: investor are The Board and Group Executive Committee promote a available at Financial performance and strategic dashboards: culture in which risks are identified, assessed and www.
com reported in an open, transparent and objective Vintage control and asset allocation analysis: manner: and Macroeconomic and M&A market overview: The over-riding priority is to protect the Groups Liquidity management: long-term viability and reputation and produce sustainable, medium to long-term cash-toCapital adequacy, including stress testing: cash returns.
Operating expenses: Managing the Groups Environmental, Social and Portfolio performance reports for Private Equity, Governance risks is central to how we do business and is Infrastructure and Debt Management: integral to our risk management framework.
Risk reports for managed Alternative Investment Risk management is embedded within all areas of the Funds: and business.
Members of the Executive Committee have responsibility for their own business areas and the Group Quarterly Group risk log.
expects individual behaviours to mirror the culture and In addition to the above, the GRC considers the impact of core values of the Group.
All employees share the any changes and developments on its risk profile, strategic responsibility of upholding 3is control culture and delivery and reputation quarterly.
supporting effective risk management to enable us to deliver our strategy.
Senior managers are required to The GRC uses the above to identify a number of key risks.
confirm their individual and business area compliance.
It then evaluates the impact and likelihood of each key risk, In addition, all staff are assessed on their awareness of with reference to associated measures and key the Groups values and compliance with them as part of performance indicators.
The adequacy of the mitigation their annual appraisal.
plans is then assessed and, if necessary, additional actions are agreed and then reviewed at the subsequent meeting.
In practice, the Group operates a three lines of defence framework for managing and identifying risk.
The first line A number of focus topics are also agreed in advance of of defence against undesirable outcomes is the business each meeting.
In FY2015 the GRC covered topics such as function and the respective Managing Partners across business continuity: cyber and physical security: Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management.
Responsible Investing RI Environmental, Social and Line management is supported by oversight and control Governance ESG reporting: investment concentration functions such as Compliance, Finance and Legal which risk: and the Groups progress on implementing constitute the second line of defence.
monitoring programme reviews the effective operation There were no significant changes to the Groups approach of our processes in meeting regulatory requirements.
to risk governance or its operation in FY2015 but we have Internal Audit provides retrospective, independent continued to refine our framework for risk management assurance over the operation of controls and is the third and reporting further to the implementation of AIFMD and line of defence.
The internal audit programme includes the Groups approach to RI ESG.
the review of risk management processes and recommendations to improve the control environment.
40 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT TheExecutive Committee actively monitors investments REVIEW OF PRINCIPAL RISKS from origination to realisation with robust monthly The disclosures on the following pages are not an management information supported by Valuation exhaustive list of risks and uncertainties faced by the Committee and Board oversight.
Group, but rather a summary of those principal risks which are under active review by the GRC and Board, In addition there are a number of risks specific to each and have the potential to affect materially the achievement business line as follows: of the Groups strategic objectives and impact its financial Private Equity performance, reputation and brand integrity.
As the investment portfolio becomes more concentrated, additional steps have been taken to increase the frequency The Groups risk profile and appetite remains broadly and scope of monitoring of the more material assets.
While there have been a number of emerging Individual portfolio company failures could have adverse external risks separately identified this year, for example reputational consequences for the Group, even if the value cyber crime, the Group believes that its consistent impact is not material.
strategy, institutional approach to investment and strong culture have helped it to maintain its stable risk profile.
Infrastructure External Strong investor demand for yield is challenging the The external environment remains challenging.
The key business ability to maintain investment rates in quality economies in which the Group operates are showing signs assets.
The business is adapting its strategy but remains of recovery against a background of low interest rates focused on pursuing new investments while considering and the effects of quantitative easing in the Eurozone.
fund raising options and inorganic opportunities.
Many of The potential for increased volatility or shocks, however, the investments in the infrastructure portfolio provide remains: for example, from increased geopolitical essential services to their community and the rigorous instability.
In addition the regulatory environment management of their performance is therefore critical.
continues to evolve and conduct of business risk remains Debt Management in sharp focus.
The principal risk is the ability to grow AUM profitably, in line with its business plan.
The business is also exposed The Group is subject to a range of additional regulatory topotential volatility in the fixed income markets and the and tax reporting requirements.
These include the effects of regulatory changes, including the Risk Retention European Alternative Investment Fund Management and Volcker rules effective from 2016 and 2017 respectively Directive AIFMD, regulations under the European Market which will impact the structure of the US CLO funds.
Infrastructure Regulation EMIR, Capital Requirements Specifically, during the warehouse phase of establishing Directive IV CRDIV, revisions to the Client Asset rules CLOs, we are exposed to market volatilities and potential CASS and the introduction of the Foreign Account Tax for further capital calls.
These changes have resulted in a significant increase in reporting requirements, Operational operational complexity and cost to the business.
However, The key areas of potential operational risk include the they have had limited practical effect on 3is ability to loss of key people and whether the investor skill sets and deliver its strategy.
Managing these changes has been a business development capabilities can support the Groups key priority and the subject of regular updates to Executive strategic delivery.
Detailed resource plans are in place at Committee and the Board.
Future developments include the business line level and the Board conducts an annual possible changes to the international tax system arising review of the Groups organisational capability and from the OECD G20 Base Erosion and Profit Shifting succession assessment.
The last review was conducted BEPS project.
Investment The GRC also received regular updates on regulation, The most significant risks are our ability to source currency risk and cyber security.
In response to the attractive investment opportunities, maximise the value growing threat posed by cyber crime, we conducted available from our portfolio and manage the timings of adetailed review of the threat posed by the external exits and cash returns.
These risks are closely linked to environment, the adequacy of the Groups internal control the economic environment noted above.
We continue to framework and our ability to respond to such an event.
focus on sectors and geographies where our expertise and TheGroup also conducted a review of its business network can drive significant outperformance.
The findings and proposed to invest and realise successfully and to minimise the risk enhancements were discussed and are being of issues in the portfolio is also key to maintaining the implemented across the Group.
Groups reputation and networks in its markets.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Key risks and mitigations continued Key risk factors Consequences Risk mitigation 2015 outcome EXTERNAL Economic stability Limited growth or reduction in Monthly portfolio monitoring GIR good at 23% and vulnerability NAV owing to contraction of to address any portfolio Gearing has reduced to nil to weaker growth earnings and or valuation issues promptly multiples in Private Equity or Weekly monitoring of liquidity Infrastructure and balance sheet Impact on investment rates and realisations Significant geopolitical Impacts general market Regular assessment of Despite increased instability, uncertainty: for example confidence and lowers exposures to geopolitical risk the direct impact on 3i and in Eastern Europe risk appetite across the Groups investment its Private Equity portfolio portfolio and investment pipeline companies has been limited Leads to economic instability and lower growth Significant currency Unhedged foreign exchange rate Monitoring of asset exposures FX impact on NAV has been movements and volatility movements impact total return by currency significant although remains and NAV primarily unrealised Regular sensitivity analysis May impact portfolio performance FX exposures at the portfolio Specific short-term hedging on company level have been entry or exit of investments monitored through existing considered on a case by asset management processes case basis Monitoring at portfolio company level Increased volatility in equities Increases risks with IPO exit route Focus on exit pipeline and Number of successful IPOs and fixed income markets refinancing strategies completed eg Refresco Potential for large market Gerber Eltel correction to impact valuations Close monitoring of Private and performance Equity performance and Increased quoted asset valuations and capital at risk in exposure: 20% of portfolio, but Debt Management largest exposure being 3iN Increased use of adjusted multiples for unquoted Private Equity valuations Subdued M&A activity and high Investment and realisation Active management of exit Invested in four new Private pricing in 3is core markets levels fall strategies by Investment Equity assets and advised on Committee to adapt to market one Core infrastructure Reduces capacity to invest and conditions investment pay enhanced shareholder distributions Regular monitoring of new Strong exit market has enabled investment work in progress the Group to dispose of a Lack of primary deal flow in the and market activity number of non-core assets US and European CLO market Impact of new regulations on Regulatory constraints on possible Process to evaluate business The changes to the UK and 3is new and existing business future business development and impact for new investments and EU regulatory and tax regimes increased operating costs business initiatives have led to additional reporting requirements, operational Complexity increases risk of New processes, procedures and complexity and cost to the non-compliance, with possible additional resource introduced Group and we expect this to financial or reputational to support compliance continue in 2016. consequences Increased monitoring and No practical limit, at present, supervision by senior on ability to deliver strategy management in initial implementation phase KEY Risk exposure has increased No significant change in risk exposure Risk exposure has reduced 42 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT Key risk factors Consequences Risk mitigation 2015 outcome INVESTMENT Investment rate or quality is Impacts longer-term returns Management focus on building Four new Private Equity lower than expected investment pipeline investments completed Impairs ability to raise new funds or attract new capital Early involvement of Investment Infrastructure investment rate Committee to identify key targets limited in competitive market Affects the Groups reputation and ability to operate Regular review of vintage control and asset allocation Portfolio performance Reduction in NAV and realisation Monthly portfolio monitoring Good earnings growth of 19% is weak or is impacted potential to address any portfolio Refined approach by a significant environmental, issues promptly Increased covenant risk in weaker to RI ESG investing social or governance incident companies Active management of new Chairman and CEO Impairs track record for appointments fundraising purposes Regular review of key Environmental, Social and Governance risks in portfolio Ability to grow Debt Management Inability to meet externally Regular review of progress Launched six new AUM profitably and generate value communicated targets on revenue against business plan CLOs in the year accretive returns and growth Review and development of the First close of European Affects investors confidence in economics of the business and Mid-Market Lending the business operating model Fund at 250m Investment Committee review Increased the size of US Senior ofnew products, fund raising Loan Fund to $157m commitments and other proposals OPERATIONAL Exposure to the loss of key Potential to undermine investor Formal review of organisational Board review in September 2014 people and or shareholder confidence capability and succession A number of key people planning Inability to deliver strategic plan changes have been managed Annual remuneration review satisfactorily Organisational development, Poor execution of strategic Project governance and Successful implementation of for example people or changes impacts delivery of management, including detailed new Private Equity accounting systems changes stated targets risk assessment and system mitigation planning Regular progress reports to Executive Committee Increase in cyber security Potential loss of operation of core Periodic cyber security Business continuity plans threats systems or sensitive data risk assessment and IT reviewed penetration testing Disruption to our business and Cyber security framework that of our portfolio companies Update of information security assessed and remedial actions policies, incident management identified processes and staff training READ MORE READ MORE Further information on Private Equity, Further information on the Audit and and Infrastructure and Debt Compliance Committees report can be Management can be found on found on page 65 pages 15 to 20 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2015 43
