Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Remuneration review The remuneration of each of the Directors is subject to fixed fee During the year, the Remuneration Committee considered the level of arrangements and none of the Directors received any additional the Directors fees and agreed a number of changes, supported by our remuneration or incentives in respect of his or her services as a Director review of market trends by Kepler Associates Partnership LLP Kepler of the Company.
During the financial year to 31 March 2015, the Directors Associates, an independent board remuneration specialist, which who served during that period were due the following: has advised the Board on Directors fees since 2011.
Kepler Associates is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a Directors fees Amount paid Amount paid in the in the signatory of, and adheres to, its Code of Conduct.
year ending year ending The changes agreed are as follows: 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Non-executive Director base fee to increase from 42,000 to 45,000: Peter Sedgwick 140,000 140,000 and Philip Austin 54,000 53,000 Additional fee for Directors resident in Jersey to increase from Doug Bannister 12,000 3,000 to 5,000.
Sir John Collins 33,750 45,000 These increases reflect the increased number of Board meetings and higher requirement for documentation approval in Jersey, as the Wendy Dorman 4,000 Company has grown and completes more primary PPP investments.
1 Ian Lobley 37,829 1 The Committee also considered the aggregate limit for the remuneration Ben Loomes 1,841 30,473 of Directors, which is currently set at 500,000 per annum and agreed, Paul Masterton 48,000 47,126 subject to shareholder approval at the Companys AGM, that this Steven Wilderspin 55,000 55,000 should be increased to 600,000 per annum.
This increase reflects the Committees decision to continue to attract high calibre directors.
1 Ian Lobleys and Ben Loomes remuneration was paid directly to 3i Group plc for making available their services.
The limit had not been increased since the Companys IPO in 2007.
Directors fees for the year under review were calculated on the There are no further proposed changes to Directors remuneration following basis: and the changes proposed above will be voluntarily submitted to shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM.
Should these changes Directors fees Annual fee Annual fee for year to for year to be approved, they will be implemented on 1 September 2015.
31 March 2015 31 March 2014 Chairmans fee 140,000 140,000 Non-executive Director base fee 42,000 42,000 Additional fee for the Senior 1 IndependentDirector 7,000 5,000 Additional fee for the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 Additional fee for Audit and Risk Committee members 3,000 3,000 Additional fee for Directors resident inJersey 3,000 3,000 Note: The Company would pay an additional 10,000 to any non-UK and non-Channel Islands Director to reflect the additional time spent travelling to Board meetings.
1 Increase from 5,000 to 7,000 implemented during the year.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 67 Financials and other information Financials and other information Independent auditors report to the membersof 3i Infrastructure plc International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Opinion on financial statements require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical In our opinion the financial statements: Standards for Auditors.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2015 and of its profit for the year then ended: Scope of the audit of the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Union: and the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: What we have audited whether the accounting policies adopted are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and We have audited the financial statements of 3i Infrastructure plc for the adequately disclosed: year ended 31 March 2015, which comprise the Consolidated Statement the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Directors: and Equity, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Significant Accounting Policies and the related Notes the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the Annual report to identify any material inconsistencies with the audited European Union.
financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Our assessment of risks of material audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
misstatement and our audit response The Group consists of the Company and a single wholly owned Respective responsibilities of Directors subsidiary, which are both subject to a full scope audit by the Group andauditor audit team.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities We identified the following risks of material misstatement which set out on page 58, the Directors are responsible for the preparation had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion team.
The table also includes our audit response to each of these risks: on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Risk identified as disclosed in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 65 Our response Valuation of investment portfolio With the assistance of our valuation experts, we performed the following procedures for a sample of assets in the investment The valuation of the Groups investment portfolio is a key driver of the portfolio representing 57% of the portfolio by value : Groups investment return and represents a material proportion of the agreed that the valuation techniques adopted by management to Groups net assets.
The value of the Groups investment portfolio at value the assets within the investment portfolio were consistent 31March 2015 was 1,231.5 million and movements in the investment with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IPEV guidelines: portfolio are shown in Note 7 to the financial statements.
challenged the accuracy of the cash flow forecasts to prior year Inappropriate assumptions made in determining the fair value of the assumptions in order to assess the accuracy of managements assets could have a significant impact on the value of the investment forecasting process: portfolio and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
challenged the application of other key valuation drivers in the valuation models to current market data in order to assess the appropriateness of these drivers: and confirmed whether managements valuation conclusions were in line with fair value as defined by IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IPEV guidelines.
We obtained independent confirmation from the underlying investee companies of the share of equity and debt held by the Group in each investment and agreed this to inputs within the valuation models.
We used the contractual terms relating to the Groups proposed disposal of Eversholt Rail Group representing 29% of the portfolio by value to agree the carrying value at 31 March 2015 and that the treatment as an investment at fair value through profit or loss was appropriate and in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 69 Financials and other information Independent auditors report to the members of 3i Infrastructure plc Risk identified as disclosed in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 65 Our response Advisory and performance fees We used the terms contained in the signed investment advisory agreement to perform a recalculation of the advisory and The fees payable by the Group for investment advisory services are performance fees.
a material component of the Groups cost base and, therefore, impact We agreed the inputs used in the calculation of the advisory and the Groups total return.
For the year to 31 March 2015, the advisory fee was 11.0 million and the performance fee was 45.0 million performance fee to the Groups financial records and audited valuation of the investment portfolio.
as disclosed in Note 2 to the financial statements.
In respect of the advisory fee, we agreed the monthly cash payments As described in Note 18, the calculation methodology for both the made to bank statements.
advisory and performance fee is complex and requires a number of subjective inputs from the Groups own financial records.
If the advisory or performance fee is not calculated in accordance with the methodology described in the investment advisory agreement this could have a material impact on both the costs incurred and overall performance of the Group.
Incomplete or inaccurate investment income We obtained a breakdown by each investee company of investment income recognised by the Group and, on a sample basis, agreed The investment income receivable by the Group during the year dividends to Board minutes from the investee companies and in the form of dividend and interest entitlements due from underlying recalculated interest income based on the underlying agreements.
investee companies is another key driver of the investment return.
We agreed a sample of investment income receipts to The investment income receivable for the year to 31 March 2015 was bank statements.
We performed cut-off procedures by checking that a sample If the Group is not entitled to receive the investment income recognised of investment income receipts around the year end date were in the financial statements, or the investment income recognised is recognised in the correct financial year.
inaccurate or does not relate to the current financial year, this could have a material impact on the return generated by the Group.
Our audit opinion for 31 March 2015 identifies incomplete or inaccurate On the basis of our risk assessments our judgment was that overall investment income as a significant risk, which was not identified as performance materiality ie our tolerance for misstatement in a significant risk in the prior year.
Based on our risk assessment in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 75% of current year, specifically in light of the performance fee paying position materiality, namely 9.9 million 2014: 50% of materiality, namely of the Company, we have increased our focus on the Companys 5.6 million.
Based on our risk assessment in the current year, we have investment income.
increased our materiality threshold to 75% as, in our view, the risk of there being an error in the current year has decreased compared to the risk of there being an error in the prior year given an additional year of Our application of materiality no unadjusted differences being identified.
Our objective in adopting this We applied the concept of materiality in planning and performing approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit our audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on our differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
audit and of uncorrected misstatements on the financial statements, We agreed that all audit differences in excess of 0.7 million and in forming our audit opinion.
When establishing our overall audit 2014: 0.6 million would be reported to the Audit and Risk Committee strategy, we determined the magnitude of omissions or uncorrected as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted misstatements that we judged would be material to the financial reporting on qualitative grounds.
This provided a basis for determining the nature of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risks We evaluated any uncorrected misstatements against both the of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of of further audit procedures.
When establishing our overall strategy we determined materiality for the Group to be 13.2 million, 2014: 11.1 million which is 1% of total equity 2014: 1% of total equity.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of our risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of total equity as it is a key financial metric on which shareholders investing in the Group would judge the Group.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 70 Financials and other information Matters on which we are required to report byexception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the Annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the Annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the Audit and Risk Committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the 10 provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
David Robert John Moore, ACA for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Jersey, Channel Islands 11 May 2015 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Infrastructure plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site 2.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 71 Financials and other information Consolidated statement of comprehensiveincome For the year to 31 March Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2015 2014 Notes m m Realised gains over fair value on the disposal of investments 14.5 2.0 Net gains on investments at fair value through profit or loss 7 236.5 7.8 251.0 9.8 Portfolio income Investment income 58.1 71.5 Fees payable on investment activities 6.1 2.0 Fees receivable on investment activities 1.5 1.1 Interest receivable 0.3 0.4 Investment return 304.8 80.8 Advisory, performance and management fees payable 2 56.0 9.6 Operating expenses 3 2.8 2.2 Finance costs 4 3.2 3.1 Unrealised gains on the fair value of derivative financial instruments 5 23.3 4.9 Net realised gains over fair value on the settlement of derivative financial instruments 5 1.4 Other income 1.1 0.2 Exchange movements 1.8 Profit before tax 266.8 71.0 Income taxes 6 Profit after tax and profit for the year 266.8 71.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 266.8 71.0 Earnings per share Basic and diluted pence 14 30.3 8.1 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2015 72
