Remuneration report Our people are our strength and ensuring we can retain and motivate is at the heart of the committees work.
Simon Troughton Remuneration committee Chairmans summary statement Introduction Deferred shares which have attained their earliest exercise dates I am pleased to present the remuneration report for the year to represent prior years compensation and performance.
There are two parts to the report: may choose to sell shares from time to time following the expiry of vesting and clawback restrictions.
Such sales should not be Annual report on remuneration, and interpreted as conveying a view on the Groups performance Directors remuneration policy.
Any such sales are permitted only in accordance with regulatory requirements, and directors continue to be The annual report on remuneration explains how the policy bound by the Groups requirement that they build and maintain has been applied during the year, and, together with this a meaningful shareholding of no less than 300% of base salary.
introductory statement, will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM.
Cap on the variable pay pool The committee is aware of the desire expressed by some The directors' remuneration policy was approved by shareholders to apply a cap on the maximum variable pay shareholders at the AGM in January 2014, and has been that any individual can earn.
Our continuing policy is to set applied consistently thereafter.
No changes to the policy are a maximum value of aggregate variable pay pool from which proposed and so there will be no resolution at the 2016 AGM.
awards are made to all employees in the Group, with awards However, for convenience, we have included the approved to executive directors representing a small proportion of the policy on page 82 of this report.
We believe that this policy is consistent with the Pay principles team-based ethos and practice which operates throughout our We continue to focus on pay for performance and alignment business, and ensures that Aberdeen is not placed at a market with shareholder interests.
The remuneration committee works disadvantage when competing for talent, as the majority of our closely with the risk committee to ensure that remuneration global competitors do not have individual caps on variable pay.
takes account of the need to manage risk exposure within the Individual variable pay caps could place upward pressure on Boards risk appetite.
fixed remuneration, which we do not consider to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Our policy for directors has the following key features: Shareholder engagement Pay is simple and clear: During the year I have continued to engage proactively with We reward the delivery of long term financial results: shareholders and representative groups, and the committee has considered the comments and feedback generated from There is a cap on total variable remuneration: these meetings.
75% of individual variable pay is deferred into Pay regulation Company shares: We continue to monitor regulatory developments on Deferred pay vests over a period of 5 years, and is subject remuneration and we are aware that the review of remuneration to clawback: guidelines for financial services firms continues.
Should the eventual outcome of this review require changes to our policy in Executives build up a substantial personal stake in the shares future, the committee will consult with major shareholders on of the Group.
how it proposes to implement the new regulatory guidelines, The same principles are applied in considering the remuneration prior to any vote on the policy.
of other employees of the Group.
The Committee pays particular Base salaries 2016 attention to the relative value of total remuneration and the The committee has decided to increase the base salaries of the growth in dividends paid to shareholders is again considerably executive directors by approximately 1.4% with effect from higher than pay growth.
1 January 2016, whilst the average increase awarded to other staff is 3.4%.
72 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Variable remuneration for 2015 The Groups financial achievements are the result of strong The aggregate variable pay pool in any year is normally no operational disciplines, and profit performance is a significant higher than 25% of pre-variable pay operating profit: for 2015 factor in setting the appropriate level of variable pay pool.
awards, the aggregate pool has been set at approximately 20%.
Our primary imperative is to look after our clients and provide As a consequence, the overall staff cost, incorporating both fixed superior long term investment performance.
and variable remuneration, has been approximately 35% of the Groups revenue over a number of years.
For 2015 this ratio Variable pay awards for executive directors are paid from is 34.6%.
the same Group pool as other employees.
Awards have been determined based on a rounded assessment of Group and As ever, I welcome any comments from investors and will be personal performance.
A range of key indicators has been available to answer any questions you may have at the AGM.
considered including: long term investment performance for clients: new business flows and client retention, service and conduct: underlying EPS: operating margin: cash conversion: ROCE: corporate governance and risk management: operational objectives and progress towards strategic goals.
The committee considers what has been achieved for each KPI, both for the year Simon Troughton and over the longer term.
Levels of variable pay award therefore Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reflect actual performance relative to both annual and longer term expectations.
The financial results achieved in any one year are a reflection of the delivery of our long term strategy.
com 73 Remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and relevant sections of the Listing Rules.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
Where indicated, information has been audited as required under the regulations.
Directors' remuneration as a single figure audited information The remuneration of the directors for 2014 and 2015 was as follows: Salary Taxable Variable & fees benefits pay Pension Total Year to 30 September 2015 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Martin Gilbert 513 2 3,825 4,340 Andrew Laing 359 2 750 63 1,174 Rod MacRae 359 2 575 63 999 Bill Rattray 359 2 750 63 1,174 Anne Richards 359 2 1,487 63 1,911 Hugh Young 365 192 3,400 3,957 Total 2,314 202 10,787 252 13,555 Non-Executive Directors Roger Cornick 325 325 Julie Chakraverty 114 114 Richard Mully 121 121 Jim Pettigrew 113 113 Val Rahmani 61 61 Jutta af Rosenborg 91 91 Simon Troughton 133 133 958 958 Total 3,272 202 10,787 252 14,513 Year to 30 September 2014 Executive Directors Martin Gilbert 505 2 4,250 4,757 Andrew Laing 354 2 800 63 1,219 Rod MacRae 354 2 600 64 1,020 Bill Rattray 354 2 800 62 1,218 Anne Richards 354 2 1,750 64 2,170 Hugh Young 337 157 4,000 4,494 2,258 167 12,200 253 14,878 Non-Executive Directors Roger Cornick 300 300 Julie Chakraverty 84 84 Anita Frew 121 121 Richard Mully 102 102 Jim Pettigrew 102 102 Jutta af Rosenborg 72 72 Simon Troughton 107 107 888 888 3,146 167 12,200 253 15,766 74 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Annual variable pay for the year to 30 September 2015 Variable awards for the year under review were based on performance against a range of criteria.
The relevant performance indicators and the committees assessment of performance are shown in the table.
Remuneration Key points in 2014 - 15 Committee's Key Key performance indicators financial year assessment Above target Financial: Around target Change in underlying diluted EPS -3.5% Between threshold and target Operating margin 42.7% Below threshold ROCE 19.6% 1 Cost control -1.5% Cash conversion 107% Qualitative: Investment performance and Difficult period for equity client retention performance Distribution Continuing to expand global distribution Talent management Senior leadership and emerging talent programmes formalised Risk management, compliance Ongoing Group-wide focus on and conduct all aspects of risk, compliance and conduct 1 Based on second half of 2014, which included the SWIP business Overall assessment of performance The committee makes an overall assessment of performance, taking account of the scorecard detailed above, and progress made during the year relative to the longer term strategic goals.
Variable pay awards to executive directors are, on average, 12% lower than in 2014.
This overall assessment recognises strong performance in financial and operational management of the business, continuing Aberdeens consistent, long term track record in these areas, albeit diluted EPS was lower than targeted and there was a reduction in assets under management.
Despite difficult market conditions, strong cost control enabled a healthy operating margin and return on capital, while good cash conversion and robust financial discipline enabled the Board to increase the dividend by 8.3%.
Good progress was achieved in talent management and development, and risk management processes, compliance and conduct were strengthened further.
The following chart shows the year-on-year growth in underlying PBT, diluted underlying EPS and ordinary dividends paid, relative to the CEOs total remuneration.
Each metric has been rebased to an index of 100 for the year to 30 September 2011.
Performance history and CEO remuneration 250 200 150 100 50 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Change in underlying PBT Change in underlying EPS diluted Change in dividends paid Total CEO remuneration aberdeen-asset.
com 75 Remuneration report continued The table below shows the longer term history of performance of Aberdeen over the past five years.
25% of variable pay is paid in cash on the award date and 75% is deferred and settled in shares.
These deferred share awards vest in equal annual instalments over a five year period, subject to the executives continued employment with the Company.
Both the cash and share elements of variable pay are subject to clawback.
Consideration of clawback in 2014 - 15 A clawback principle applies to variable pay.
This enables the committee to seek to recoup variable pay in the exceptional event of: misstatement or misleading representation of performance: a significant failure of risk management and control: or serious misconduct of an individual.
It allows both the equity and cash portions of variable awards to be clawed back via the reduction or cancellation of any outstanding unvested deferred variable pay awards regardless of the year to which they relate.
As 75% of each years variable pay award is deferred, there is an ongoing substantial amount of accumulated, unvested deferred remuneration that can be recouped.
The committee considered there were no events or circumstances during 2014-15 that required the application of clawback.
Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of executive Directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to continued service.
These interests represent ordinary shares which will vest on the dates stated.
Directors interests in share options audited information Date of Exercised Market price Status of grant 2014 in year exercise 2015 Exercise Earliest Latest price Rod MacRae 17.6.
08 116,666 116,666 130.25p Jun 2013 Jun 2018 Achieved The market price of the Companys ordinary shares at 30 September 2015 was 296.5p and the range during the year was 293.0p to 507.5p.
com 77 Remuneration report continued Directors share interests audited information Details of the directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
As set out in the policy report, the executive directors are required to build up a shareholding equivalent to 300% of salary, including vested deferred variable pay shares.
The Board Chairman and non-executive directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline.
The directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board.
No director currently holds their shares in such an arrangement.
There have been no other changes to the directors holdings between 30 September 2015 and 27 November 2015.
78 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The following table shows the percentage change in the base salary, benefits and variable pay of the Chief Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to average for all employees of the Group.
Chief Executive Average for all employees Base salary 1.4% 3.4% Benefits No change No change Total variable pay -10.0% -4.0% Review of base salaries The executive directors salaries were reviewed by the committee and a salary increase of 1.4% will take effect from 1 January 2016.
The average rate of salary increase awarded to all staff, other than directors, is 3.4%.
Base salary changes for the executive directors Salary as at Salary as at 1 January 2015 1 January 2016 Change Martin Gilbert 515,000 522,000 1.4% Andrew Laing 360,000 365,000 1.4% Rod MacRae 360,000 365,000 1.4% Bill Rattray 360,000 365,000 1.4% Anne Richards 360,000 365,000 1.4% Hugh Young S$718,000 S$728,000 1.4% The following fee levels for non-executive directors were introduced on 1 October 2014.
Current fee Board Chairman 325,000 Non-executive director base fee 65,000 Senior Independent Director 20,000 Committee chairman supplement Audit, Innovation, Remuneration, Risk 30,000 Committee membership supplement Audit, Innovation, Remuneration, Risk 13,000 Committee membership supplement Nominations 5,000 aberdeen-asset.
com 79 Remuneration report continued Total shareholder return The graph below shows the Companys TSR performance with dividends re-invested against the performance of the FTSE All Share and the FTSE All Share General Financial Sector indices for the last 7 years.
As the chart indicates, Aberdeens TSR of 214% was substantially above the two comparator indices.
% - Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Sep Aberdeen Asset Management FTSE All Share General Financial Sector FTSE All Share Source: Thomson Reuters Total remuneration for Chief Executive The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the financial years shown in the TSR graph is shown in the following table.
The total remuneration figure includes the variable pay awarded, and LTIP awards which vested, based on performance in each year.
The LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum, for those years in which there was an LTIP vesting event.
As there is no cap on the maximum individual annual variable pay award, a percentage of maximum annual variable pay is not shown.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total remuneration 000 3,751 4,501 4,728 5,102 4,757 4,340 LTIP vesting % 85% 100% 100% N A N A N A Relative importance of the spend on pay The chart below shows the year-on-year movement in total remuneration of all employees, compared to the change in dividends paid and declared on ordinary shares.
m 404.3 388.9 251.4 231.0 Total employee pay Dividends 2014 2015 Over the 5 year period to 30 September 2015, the compound annual growth rate CAGR of total employee pay was 12.1%, while the CAGR of ordinary dividend payments was 26.3%.
Implementation of remuneration policy in the year commencing 1 October 2015 The committee intends to continue to apply broadly the same performance metrics and weightings to variable remuneration as in the previous year and to take account of strategic and annual expectations for the Group.
80 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Meetings and attendance The remuneration committee is chaired by Simon Troughton and, during the year, he was supported by two independent non-executive directors, Jutta af Rosenborg and Richard Mully.
All members served on the committee throughout the year.
The committee operates under formal terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and held seven meetings during the year.
There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown in the table: The members of the committee during the year and their attendance at the meetings of the committee were: Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended Simon Troughton 7 7 Jutta af Rosenborg 7 7 Richard Mully 7 7 The Chief Executive attends the meeting by invitation and assists the committee in its deliberations, except when his personal remuneration is discussed.
No directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The committee also received advice from the Global Head of Human Resources.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the committee.
External advisers The remuneration committee receives independent advice from New Bridge Street NBS consultants.
NBS abides by the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective and impartial advice.
NBS was appointed by the committee and does not provide other services to the Group.
Total fees charged by NBS for the year were 43,000.
External Directorships The Group earned fees of 23,000 for Martin Gilberts services as a non-executive director of one Aberdeen managed company and 68,750 for Hugh Youngs services as a non-executive director of three Aberdeen managed companies.
The table below sets out details of the external directorships held by the executive directors and any fees that they received in respect of their services during the year.
Position 2015 2014 Martin Gilbert Senior Independent director, Sky plc 139,695 104,000 Anne Richards Non-executive director, esure Group plc 67,500 60,000 Member of the Council of the Duchy of Lancaster 4,250 17,000 Bill Rattray Non-executive director, Curtis Banks Group plc 10,607 Statement of shareholder voting At the 2015 AGM, shareholder voting on remuneration was as follows: February 2015 Approve the Directors' Remuneration Report AGM % Votes cast in favour 906.4m 92.5 Votes cast against 73.4m 7.5 Total votes cast 979.8m 100.0 Abstentions 7.8m aberdeen-asset.
com 81 Remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy This part of the Directors' Remuneration Report sets out the The committee has not conducted a specific employee remuneration policy for directors of the Company, which was consultation exercise on the directors' remuneration policy.
approved by shareholders at the AGM in January 2014.
However, the Group consults with its employees on general employment policies in a range of ways, including formal Policy overview consultation forums in some countries where it operates.
The remuneration committee determines, on behalf of the Board, Members of staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly the Group's policy on the remuneration of the chairman, executive to their line managers or to the human resources team.
directors and other senior executives.
The committee's terms of The remuneration committee monitors the effectiveness of the reference are available on the Group's website.
Group's remuneration policy in recruiting, retaining, engaging In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, and motivating staff, and receives regular feedback from the committee takes into account the following: the Global Head of Human Resources on how the Group's remuneration policies are perceived and whether they are the need to attract, retain and motivate talented executive meeting business needs.
directors and senior management: The committee does not seek to apply fixed ratios between pay and benefits practice and employment conditions both pay levels of different roles in the Group, as this would restrict within the Group as a whole and within the particular flexibility in aligning reward and achievement, and potentially geographic regions in which the Group operates: create barriers to recruiting and retaining the necessary talent external comparisons to examine current market trends and in a highly competitive employment market.
practices and equivalent roles in similar companies taking into Policy table account their size, business complexity, international scope and The table summarises the key aspects of the Companys relative performance: and remuneration policy for executive directors.
alignment of remuneration policy with the interests of shareholders.
How the views of shareholders are taken into account The remuneration committee chairman engages pro-actively and regularly with major shareholders and shareholder representatives.
The committee considers shareholder feedback received, as part of its annual review of remuneration policy.
If any material changes to the remuneration policy are contemplated, the remuneration committee chairman consults with major shareholders about these in advance.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report are provided in the annual report on remuneration section of this report.
Considerations elsewhere in the Group The Group applies a consistent remuneration philosophy for staff at all levels.
Base salaries are targeted around the median of the relevant markets in which the Group competes for talent.
All employees are eligible to be considered for performance-related variable pay, and the principle of deferral applies to all variable pay above a minimum threshold.
Rates of pension contribution and fringe benefit provisions are consistent between executives and other employees within each country where the Group operates.
The committee considers the base salary increases for the Group's broader employee population when determining any annual salary increases for the executive directors.
82 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance aberdeen-asset.
com 83 Remuneration report continued Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation, performance measures, deferral and clawback Maximum opportunity Base salary Reviewed annually, taking account of market salary levels, Group performance, individual There is no prescribed maximum salary or maximum rate of increase.
The committee is guided by the general increase for the broader Fixed pay performance, changes in responsibility and levels of increase for the broader employee population.
employee population but on occasions may need to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility, specific retention issues, market practice or changes in regulatory requirements.
To pay a fair salary, commensurate with Reference is made to mid-market levels within relevant FTSE and industry comparators.
the individual's role, responsibilities Details of the outcome of the most recent salary review are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
The committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total remuneration package.
and experience, and having regard to the market rates for similar roles in the asset management sector and other comparable companies.
Benefits The Group currently provides a range of fringe benefits such as: medical insurance: disability Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only a small percentage of total remuneration.
The costs associated with Fixed pay insurance: life insurance: paid holiday: and international benefits assistance where appropriate.
benefits provision are closely monitored and controlled.
Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to time, within this policy.
Pension Employee contributions are made to appropriate defined contribution pension arrangements, or Company contribution of up to 20% of base salary, or equivalent cash allowance in lieu.
Fixed pay equivalent cash allowances are paid, subject to normal practice in the relevant country.
To provide market competitive defined Where there are legacy defined benefit plans from corporate acquisitions, these are closed to all contributions, to assist with recruitment future accrual at the earliest reasonable opportunity.
Variable pay Variable pay awards to executive directors are made from the Group's aggregate variable pay pool The aggregate variable pay pool for all employees including executives is capped.
The policy is not to cap individual variable pay awards in which all staff participate and which is approved by the remuneration committee each year.
other than indirectly through the impact of the aggregate pool cap as this is not market practice for most of the Group's peers and would To reward performance and The aggregate pool is normally capped at no more than 25% of the pre-variable pay operating risk placing the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
align executives' interests to those profit, unless exceptional circumstances justify a higher cap.
Executive variable pay awards paid of shareholders.
The high proportion of variable pay deferral 75%, clawback arrangements, and risk controls incorporated in the Group's team-based from this pool take account of the Group's key financial performance indicators for the relevant investment process, ensure that the uncapped individual incentive opportunity encourages both excellent performance and prudent financial year such as underlying profit before tax, underlying earnings per share, operating margin, management of risk.
cash conversion, ROCE, corporate governance and risk management.
Details of the performance indicators for the most recent financial year and performance against them are provided in the The committee will consider, where appropriate, the use of tax-approved share plans, to be applied to all employees on similar terms, where annual report on remuneration.
Similar indicators have been applied for the forthcoming year and these are consistent with the Group's overall remuneration policy.
we will report on the outcomes against these measures in the 2016 report.
75% of variable pay is awarded in Company shares which are released to executive directors in equal tranches over not less than four years.
An amount equivalent to the dividends due on the shares is paid to participants only after the earliest vesting date has passed.
Clawback A clawback principle applies to the variable pay plan.
This enables the committee to seek to The committee has discretion to determine the amount of any award which it seeks to clawback.
recoup variable pay in the exceptional event of: misstatement or misleading representation of To ensure that variable pay awards do not performance: a significant failure of risk management and control: or serious misconduct of encourage excessive risk.
Share ownership Executive directors are required to build up a substantial interest in Company shares.
The current requirements are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Employment contracts, and loss Notice periods from the company are normally limited to 12 months, unless there are exceptional Any severance payment in lieu of notice is capped at an amount equivalent to the remuneration the executive director would otherwise of office reasons for a longer period of notice during a temporary transition period.
have been eligible to receive had they been permitted to work the notice period.
To facilitate recruitment and retention, Deferred variable pay awards normally lapse on cessation of employment unless 'good leaver' See further detail after this table regarding any new executive director contracts.
and support pay for performance, by status applies under the relevant plan rules.
providing fair but not excessive contract features.
New executive director appointments Remuneration for new appointments will be set in accordance with the policy detailed in this table.
Where necessary, the committee may offer additional remuneration, such as shares or cash-based To facilitate recruitment of awards, to replace remuneration the individual has foregone in order to be able to join the Group.
84 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation, performance measures, deferral and clawback Maximum opportunity Base salary Reviewed annually, taking account of market salary levels, Group performance, individual There is no prescribed maximum salary or maximum rate of increase.
com 85 Remuneration report continued Approach to remuneration for new executive Choice of performance measures and how performance director appointments expectations are set The remuneration package for a newly appointed executive Variable pay is based on a range of key performance director is set in accordance with the terms of the Groups indicators KPIs linked directly to the Groups strategy, approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
which provides a rounded assessment of the Groups performance.
The variable remuneration for a new executive director would be The remuneration committee reviews the KPIs each year, and determined in the same way as for existing executive directors, varies them, if appropriate, to ensure that they continue to reflect and would be subject to the maximum limit on aggregate variable the priorities for the business.
pay referred to in the policy table above.
The main emphasis is on financial metrics such as underlying profit before tax, underlying earnings per share, operating margin, cash The committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based conversion, and ROCE.
These KPIs are used because: they support elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the value creation for shareholders: are a good indication of the strong Group and shareholders, to replace variable remuneration awards operational disciplines in place: and, most importantly, reflect the or arrangements that an individual has foregone in order to join Groups imperative to look after our clients.
Any such payments would take account of the details of the remuneration foregone and would take account of the The committee considers what has been achieved for each KPI, nature, vesting dates and any performance requirements attached relative to both the annual business plan and the longer term to that remuneration.
Levels of variable pay award therefore reflect actual performance relative to both annual and longer term expectations.
For external and internal appointments, the Group may meet The financial results achieved in any one year are a reflection of certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
the delivery of our long term strategy.
Service contracts and loss of office payment policy The remuneration committee periodically reviews the contractual Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors terms for new executive directors to ensure that these reflect compared to other employees best practice.
The remuneration approach for the executive directors is broadly consistent with that for employees across the Group as a whole.
Service contracts normally continue until the directors agreed However, there are some differences which the committee retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The service believes are necessary to reflect the different responsibilities of contracts contain provision for early termination.
Notice periods employees across the Group: are limited to 12 months.
Below executive director level, whilst the same 75% variable Executive directors appointed up to 31 December 2013 pay deferral policy applies, participants may elect to receive up For existing executive directors, if the employing company to half the deferred amount in the form of an investment in terminates the employment without giving the period of notice funds managed by Aberdeen: the balance of the deferred required under the contract, then the executive director is amount is delivered in Aberdeen shares.
entitled to receive up to 1 years remuneration in recompense.
For executive directors and the other members of the Group Compensation is limited to: base salary due for any unexpired management board the 75% deferred portion of variable pay vests notice period: any amount assessed by the committee as over not less than four years in equal tranches.
For awards made representing the value of contractual benefits and pension which for 2014 and for 2015, the vesting period is 5 years.
For employees would have been received during the notice period: and any below this level, the 75% deferred portion currently vests in equal variable pay which the director might otherwise have been eligible tranches over three year period following the award.
to receive had they been permitted to serve their notice, subject to the committees assessment of Group and personal performance.
External non-executive director positions Any executive directors who are appointed after Executive directors are permitted to accept a limited number of 31 December 2013 directorships outside the Group, recognising that this can assist In the case of any new executive director appointment since in their personal development.
All such appointments are subject January 2014, if the individuals contract were terminated by the to approval in advance by the Board.
Where the appointment is employing company and payment in lieu of notice were to be accepted in furtherance of the Groups business, any fees received made, the committee would normally seek to limit this to base are remitted to the Group.
If the appointment is not connected to salary, pension and benefits for up to 12 months.
An amount in the Groups business, the director is permitted to retain any fees respect of loss of variable pay for the period of notice would only received.
Details of outside directorships held by the executive be included in exceptional circumstances such as ill health, and directors and any fees that they received are provided in the would not apply in circumstances of poor performance.
For the annual report on remuneration.
avoidance of doubt, note that the individual would be eligible to be considered in the normal way for an variable pay for any period they have served as an executive director, subject to the normal assessment of Group and personal performance.
86 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate governance The directors contracts also provide for termination on three A directors service contract may be terminated without notice months notice if, in the opinion of the Board and having given the and without any further payment or compensation, except for director adequate opportunity to improve, the director has failed sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of to perform at a satisfactory standard.
In such a case, the directors certain events such as gross misconduct.
contracts do not provide for any liquidated damages to be paid.
Legacy arrangements In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this directors remuneration policy, authority is given to the Group to honour Detailed any commitments entered into with current or former directors terms any new such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share Detailed terms for executive director schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous existing executive appointments post remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to directors will be Provision directors 31 December 2013 set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Notice period 12 months 12 months The Groups policy results in the majority of the remuneration Termination Base salary plus Normally limited received by executive directors being dependent on Group payment in value of benefits to base salary, plus performance.
the event of including pension.
value of benefits The chart below illustrates the minimum fixed remuneration, termination by the Also eligible for including pension.
and provides an indication of the total remuneration for a year Company without annual variable pay of good performance using the variable pay figures for the year due notice.
which the director ending September 2015 and the base salary effective 1 January would otherwise 2016.
As the Groups policy is not to cap individual variable pay, have received.
a maximum total remuneration figure is not shown in the chart.
Any share-based entitlements an executive director holds under It also shows the weighting of the main remuneration components the Groups share plans will be determined based on the relevant for executive directors.
As the chart indicates, performance-related plan rules.
The default treatment is that any outstanding awards remuneration represents between 57% to 88% of the total, will lapse.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as and three-quarters of the performance-related remuneration is death, disability, redundancy, retirement or other circumstances delivered in Aberdeen shares.
at the discretion of the committee taking into account the Individuals performance and the reasons for their departure good leaver status can be applied.
Relative sizes of remuneration components 000 4,349 3,928 66% 65% 1,917 59% 1,180 1,180 1,005 22% 22% 48% 48% 43% 524 19% 528 430 430 430 430 16% 16% 14% 12% 100% 13% 100% 36% 36% 100% 100% 100% 43% 100% 22% Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Minimum Actual Fixed Fixed Fixed Fixed Fixed Fixed Martin Gilbert Andrew Laing Rod MacRae Bill Rattray Anne Richards Hugh Young Fixed remuneration Variable pay - cash Variable pay - deferred aberdeen-asset.
com 87 Remuneration report continued Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other non-executive directors Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum Board To attract and retain The Chairman is paid a single fee for all his The current fee for the Chairman Chairman a high-calibre Board responsibilities.
The level of the fee is reviewed is 325,000.
The Directors' fee Chairman by offering periodically by the remuneration committee, with Remuneration Policy allows the fee a market competitive reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE to be changed periodically by the fee level.
companies, and a recommendation is then made to committee.
the Board without the Chairman being present.
NonTo attract and retain The non-executives are paid a basic fee.
The current basic fee is 65,000 executive high-calibre nonFee supplements may be paid for additional with a supplement of 30,000 for director fees executive directors responsibilities and activities, such as for the each of the Chairman of the audit, by offering a market committee chairmen and other members of the innovation, remuneration, and risk competitive fee level.
main Board committees eg audit, remuneration, committees and a supplement of risk, innovation and nominations and the Senior 20,000 for the senior independent Independent Director, to reflect the additional Director.
is 13,000 for other members of the audit, innovation, remuneration The fee levels are reviewed periodically by the and risk committees, and 5,000 Chairman and executive directors, with reference to for members of the nominations market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies committee.
The fee levels are and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
subject to change periodically under the policy.
There is no maximum fee level.
Non-executive directors are engaged under letters of appointment and they do not have contracts of service.
The appointment will normally terminate on: i a director choosing to resign voluntarily: or ii a director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness: or iii annually, if the nominations committee does not approve the extension of the appointment: or iv a director being found guilty of misconduct: or v a director not being re-elected by the shareholders following retirement by rotation at an Annual General Meeting.
No fee is paid to non-executive directors appointed to represent a major shareholder.
Compliance with FCA Remuneration Codes The committee regularly reviews its remuneration policy to ensure compliance with the principles of the Remuneration Code of the UK financial services regulator, as applicable to Aberdeen.
The remuneration policy is designed to be consistent with the prudent management of risk, and the sustained, long term performance of the Group.
The Group Head of Risk is involved in reviewing the remuneration policy and practice to ensure that it is aligned with sound risk management, and keeps the committee informed of Aberdeen's risk profile so that this can be taken into account in remuneration decisions.
Approval This Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Simon Troughton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 November 2015 88 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
