Report of the Remuneration Committee Statement from Annette Court Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report the Report for the year ended 31 December 2015, which has been prepared by the I remain confident that the Remuneration Committee the Committee and approved by the Board.
Groups Remuneration Policy 2015 has been another strong year for the Admiral Group despite challenging supports the view, held by the conditions in the cyclical core UK motor insurance market.
Earnings per share in the year were 107.3 pence 2014: 103.0 pence, up 4% on 2014.
Return on Board, that wide share ownership equity of was 49% 2014: 52%.
Total Shareholder Return was 34% over the year, placing Admiral in the top quartile of the FTSE 350.
Total dividends for drives outstanding performance the financial year including the proposed final dividend of 63.4 pence per share and promotes the long term will be 114.4 pence per share, representing 108% of our earnings.
The Groups strategy remains to continue to maximise our position in the UK while taking success ofthe business whilst what we know and do well, which is internet and telephone delivery of insurance and price comparison, to our overseas businesses.
remaining inalignment with Two of the three Executive Directors are founding Directors and receive shareholder interests.
remuneration that only comprises salary and modest benefits.
The Committee continues to hold the view that this is appropriate, as their significant shareholdings provide a sufficient alignment of their interest withthose of other shareholders.
In order to provide full transparency of payarrangements for our Executive Directors, this Report includes single figure and comparative data for our CFO as well as for our CEO, as the pay arrangements for the CFO are more reflective of those for non-founder executives.
The Group continues to maintain base salary levels for most senior management positions at well below the lower quartile of their peer group in the FTSE 350.
As I noted in my letter last year, the Company undertook in late 2014 and early 2015 a comprehensive review of the Groups DFSS Discretionary Free Share Scheme rules.
A considerable amount of the Remuneration Committees time in early 2015 was spent consulting with our top shareholders and other stakeholders on the proposed revisions to the DFSS.
The proposed changes to the DFSS were incorporated into the Groups Remuneration Policy which was put to shareholders for approval at the Groups AGM in April 2015 and subsequently approved with 96% voting in favour.
I remain confident that the Groups Remuneration Policy supports the view, held by the Board, that wide share ownership drives outstanding performance and promotes the long term success of the business whilst remaining in alignment with shareholder interests.
In addition to consideration of the proposed DFSS changes set out above, the Committee also considered the following matters during the year ended 31 December 2015: Reviewing the salary arrangements and fee proposals for the Executive Directors, the Chairman and senior management.
Reviewing the appropriateness of the performance conditions for the FreeShare Incentive Plan SIP awards.
Reviewing the Companys performance against the performance conditions applicable to the DFSS and SIP awards and where appropriate authorising the vesting of awards.
Reviewing and authorising the grant of awards under both the DFSS and SIP.
Reviewing the Committees Terms of Reference and recommending amendments to the Board for approval.
Approval subject to shareholder approval for a sub-plan of the DFSS to be created in order to take advantage of the changes in France with respect to the Macron Law.
Annette Court Chair of the Remuneration Committee 2 March 2016 Annette Court ADMIRAL GROUP PLC 58 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
