ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report Statement by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Our Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at our 2015 AGM, was applied in 2015.
During the latter half of 2015, the Remuneration Committee carried out a thorough review of all elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior management which considered feedback received from major shareholders and shareholder advisory services in connection with the implementation and adoption of the initial Remuneration Policy in 2015.
As a result of this process, the new Remuneration Policy for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors on pages 74 to 86, will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 26 May 2016.
Subject to shareholder approval, the new Remuneration Policy will take formal effect from that date.
If the new Remuneration Policy is not approved by shareholders, the current policy will remain in effect.
The Work of the Remuneration Committee The year ended 31 December 2015 was the first full year of operation for the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
Messrs. Sharer, Davis, Dolan and Rohr, as applicable, were present at all meetings during the year.
I was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 04 June 2015, and I met several times throughout the financial year with members of senior management in order to review all elements of remuneration and their operation.
The Committee also received professional advice from the Hay Group where appropriate.
A key objective of this review was to ensure an appropriate Remuneration Policy was in place for a UK listed company, whilst also ensuring that it was designed to continue to attract and retain US-based management and employees of the highest caliber.
The programme is weighted toward rewarding entrepreneurial achievement and the creation of shareholder value over time.
During the year, the key activities carried out by the Committee were: Carried out a thorough review of all elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior management: Reviewed feedback received from major shareholders and shareholder advisory services in connection with the implementation and adoption of the initial Remuneration Policy in 2015: In connection with the annual review of the Remuneration Policy, revised and proposed the adoption of the new Remuneration Policy: In the new Remuneration Policy, provided for i a revised process for the determination of annual cash incentive bonus awards which will utilise specific performance targets and weighting set in advance from year to year, and ii revised performance metrics for future long term incentive plan LTIP awards to be solely based upon relative total shareholder return rTSR : Reviewed the LTIP to ensure that it continues to advance the Committees policy to provide a competitive, performance-linked, long-term incentive mechanism to align the interests of management and shareholders: Determined the cash incentive bonus awards for the Executive Officers for the last financial year: Determined base salaries of the Executive Directors, for the period starting 01 January 2016: Issued LTIP awards at 04 June 2015: Page 70 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 70 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Reviewed progress against 2014 and 2015 LTIP award performance targets for the last financial year: Established 2014 and 2015 LTIP award performance targets for the current financial year: and Reviewed the remuneration reporting regulations in connection with the review and revision of the Groups Remuneration Policy and preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Objectives of the Remuneration Policy In setting the new Remuneration Policy, the Committee focused on simple and transparent market competitive remuneration and incentive schemes.
The proposed Remuneration Policy is designed to: attract, retain and motivate high caliber US-based senior management, and to focus them on the delivery of the Companys long-term strategic and business objectives: promote a strong, fair and sustainable performance culture: incentivise growth and the achievement of milestones: align the interests of Executive Directors and members of the senior management team with those of shareholders through equity ownership: and be simple to understand and implement, and designed taking into account best practice guidelines for UK listed companies.
The key components of remuneration are set out in detail within the new Remuneration Policy, which will be subject to a binding vote at our 2016 AGM.
Performance and Reward for 2015 As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, the Groups performance has been strong, with progress across many of the Groups portfolio businesses contributing to a significant increase in the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value GSOAV of $535.8 million as of 31 December 2015, compared to $488.0 million at 31 December 2014, which was an increase of $47.8 million, or 9.8%.
In addition, the Group share price performance was as follows: 421.9p share price, the 30-day trailing average as at 31 December 2015, an increase of 32.5% over the 318.3p share price, the 30-day trailing average as at 31 December 2014.
As detailed in this Directors Remuneration Report, the Committee determined to provide cash incentive bonus awards and LTIP awards to the Executive Directors that reflected the level of performance and achievement in 2015.
Shareholder Feedback The Committee recognises that building a close relationship with shareholders can complement the work of the Committee in developing the Remuneration Policy.
In connection with our first AGM, we received feedback from major shareholders and shareholder advisory services with respect to our remuneration programme.
One of our overarching aims has been to develop a Remuneration Policy which closely aligns the interests of our senior executives and our shareholders, and with this in mind, we are asking our shareholders to vote for the new Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM.
Page 71 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 71 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued We continue to appreciate any feedback shareholders may have.
Kevin Sharer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 April 2016 What is in this report?
The Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Company on pages 74 to 86, describes the implementation of that Remuneration Policy, and discloses the amounts paid relating to the year ended 31 December 2015.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended.
The Remuneration Policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Listing Rules and shareholders executive remuneration guidelines.
The Remuneration Policy for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors on pages 74 to 86, will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 26 May 2016.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Remuneration Policy will take formal effect from that date.
The Statement by Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on pages 70 to 72, and the Annual Remuneration Report on pages 87 to 97, will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
As explained in the basis of consolidation accounting policy, the Groups financial statements reflect the continuation of the pre-existing Group headed by Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC.
In keeping with that accounting, the Company has chosen to include the remuneration of these directors when they were directors of Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC or any of its subsidiaries.
Remuneration Policy Overview The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining remuneration for the Executive Directors, and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committee designed this Remuneration Policy with close regard to market practice in other UK listed companies so as to ensure that the arrangements are appropriately competitive and structured in line with best practice.
However, the Remuneration Policy also retains some of the key elements which helped to drive the Groups success prior to IPO, and other customary service arrangements and incentive elements for US-based management and employees.
Allied Minds success depends in part on the talent of its management and employees.
Allied Minds has a highly skilled workforce, with significant expertise throughout the Group across a range of science and technology disciplines, as well as a highly experienced management team.
Allied Minds seeks to ensure that its management team and its employees and consultants working within the Groups individual businesses are fairly and appropriately rewarded and incentivised.
Allied Minds seeks to achieve this through a combination of competitive levels of remuneration that is appropriate to the scale of responsibility and performance of the employee or consultant, and incentives tied directly to increasing shareholder value.
Page 72 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 72 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Group operates in the highly competitive US market, and attraction and retention of individual talent is important to success of the Groups businesses.
Allied Minds deploys a careful and considered approach to remuneration with the objective of attracting, motivating and retaining individuals of the necessary caliber.
It is important to note that each national market for talent is different, making cross-border comparisons very difficult.
In addition to general standard of living costs, there are large differences with respect to taxes, pensions, provision of cars, and medical plans and costs, among many others.
The Company believes that it is important that remuneration is weighted toward rewarding entrepreneurial achievement and the creation of shareholder value over time as its employees work toward the commercialisation of scientific and technological innovations.
Accordingly, Allied Minds has established share incentive plans with the aim of incentivising and rewarding employees and Directors to achieve long term shareholder value.
The Directors believe the share incentive arrangements at the level of the subsidiary businesses, as well as the overall Group, are an important factor in the promotion of shareholder value creation.
The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to attract, retain and motivate high caliber senior management and employees, and to focus them on the delivery of the Companys long-term strategic and business objectives, to promote a strong and sustainable performance culture, incentivise growth and the achievement of milestones, and to align the interests of Executive Directors and senior management team with those of shareholders through equity ownership.
In promoting these objectives the Remuneration Policy aims to be simple in design, transparent and understandable both to participants and Shareholders, and has been structured so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and appropriate risk management.
Page 73 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 73 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy pages 74 to 86 The Remuneration Policy for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 26 May 2016.
If approved by shareholders, the Remuneration Policy will take formal effect from that date.
The Remuneration Committee will consider the Remuneration Policy annually to ensure that it continues to align with the Companys strategic objectives: however, it is intended that the Remuneration Policy will apply for three years from the 2016 AGM.
If, during that timeframe, any amendments need to be made to the Remuneration Policy, it will be presented to the shareholders to be voted on.
How the views of shareholders and employees are taken into account The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on executive pay but does receive periodic updates in relation to salary and bonus reviews across the Company.
As set out in the Remuneration Policy table below, in setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company and salary increases will ordinarily be considered in light of those of the wider workforce.
Thus, the Committee is satisfied that the decisions made in relation to Executive Directors pay are made with an appropriate understanding of the wider workforce.
Any feedback received from time to time from shareholders will be considered as part of the Committees annual review of the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee will seek to engage with shareholders and their representative bodies when it is proposed that any material changes are to be made to the Remuneration Policy.
The voting outcomes from the 2015 AGM are available on page 97.
Page 74 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 74 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Future Remuneration Policy Table for Executive Directors The total remuneration package is structured so that variable elements annual bonus and long-term incentives make up a significant proportion of the package, with the emphasis on variable pay focused on long-term incentives.
The tables below summarise the key aspects of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Salary The Company is required An Executive There is no prescribed maximum annual There are no performance to provide an appropriate Directors basic salary.
The Committee is satisfied that conditions attached to the level of salary in order salary is considered the salaries conform to its strategy, whilst payment of salary although to be competitive and by the Committee remaining competitive against similar roles there are a number of to maintain its ability to on appointment and within the relevant peer groups.
performance-based factors recruit and retain Executive normally reviewed once both at the individual and The current salaries for the Executive Directors.
Salaries are set per year or when there Company level that influence Directors are: to achieve this objective.
is a significant change the level of salaries provided to 2016 2015 Review to role or responsibility.
Executive Directors for annual The Committee wishes $000 $000 Date performance appraisals.
to ensure that fixed costs When making a are minimised and that determination as Chris Silva $515 $500 01 Jan total actual payments to to the appropriate executives will be driven to remuneration, the a more significant extent Committee, where it is through the operation of relevant, benchmarks the performance related the remuneration elements of the package.
against the Companys peer groups.
As described in this Remuneration Policy, the For the purpose performance elements of of benchmarking total reward are directly salaries and other linked to the achievement remuneration, the of the Companys strategic principal peer grouping objectives.
used by the Company consists of companies within similar industry sectors which are either US or UK listed with a range of capitalisations.
The results of benchmarking will, however only be one of a number of factors taken into account by the Remuneration Committee and which will include: scale, scope and responsibility of the role: skills and experience of the individual: retention risk: base salary of other employees: and economic environment.
Page 75 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 75 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Benefits The Committees intention The Executive Directors This is the cost of providing those benefits There are no performance is to provide a benefits may be entitled to the detailed herewith which in 2015 was as conditions attached to the package in line with US following benefits: follows: payment of benefits.
employment market life insurance: practice.
Benefits disability insurance: Cost The Company is required $000 to provide this benefits medical benefits and package in order to dental care: Chris Silva $42 be competitive and to maintain its ability to recruit a car allowance: The cost of benefits provided changes in and retain Executive accordance with market conditions and an annual payment Directors.
will, therefore, determine the maximum to cover personal amount that would be paid in the form legal and tax advice.
There is therefore no overall Executive Directors maximum opportunity under this this may also participate in component of the Remuneration Policy.
any all-employee share plans that may be operated by the Group from time to time on the same terms as other employees.
Additional benefits, which may include relocation expenses, housing allowance or other benefits-in-kind, may be provided in certain circumstances if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee, including as may be required on recruitment.
Page 76 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 76 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Cash The cash incentive bonus The Committee and There are no caps on the amount of As noted in Operation, the Incentive award, taken together with senior management bonus which may be paid.
However, decision to provide any cash Bonus base salary, is required in review the Groups each year the Committee determines the incentive bonus award and the Awards order to be competitive management by maximum opportunity for each Executive amount and terms of any such and to maintain the ability objectives MBOs Director.
The maximum opportunity for award, are determined solely to recruit and retain annually prior to each Executive Director in 2016 is set at by the level of achievement Executive Directors.
Cash the start of each 150% of base salary.
against the MBOs set by the incentive bonus awards financial year to Committee at the start of the When making a determination as to are set to achieve this ensure the detailed financial year.
the appropriate maximum bonus, objective.
performance measures the Committee, where it is relevant, The Committee may consider and weightings are As described in this benchmarks the remuneration against the any and all performance criteria appropriate and Remuneration Policy, the Companys peer groups.
in setting the annual MBOs to continue to support the performance elements be used in the determination For the purpose of benchmarking cash business strategy.
of cash incentive bonus to provide an award, and may incentive bonus awards and other awards and total reward Annual MBOs, generally consider: remuneration, the principal peer grouping are directly linked to including financial, used by the Company consists of the general performance the achievement of the operational, technical companies within similar industry sectors of the Group, including Companys strategic and other performance which are either US or UK listed with a financial, operational, objectives.
targets and their range of capitalisations.
technical and other weightings for the performance targets: and The cash incentive bonus awards in 2015 upcoming year are set were as follows: the individual performance of at or around the start of the Executive Director.
Cash Incentive Weighting will be primarily An Executive Directors Bonus Award towards Group, and not cash incentive bonus $000 individual, MBO performance award is considered by for Executive Directors.
the Committee upon Chris Silva $525 completion of each Performance will typically be financial year.
The measured over one year.
decision to provide any cash incentive bonus award and the amount and terms of any such award, are determined solely by the level of achievement against the MBOs set by the Committee at the start of the financial year.
Page 77 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 77 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Pension It is the Committees No element of the None.
None intention to provide Executive Directors pension benefits in line with remuneration is US employment market pensionable.
Group does not operate any pension The Company is not scheme or other required to provide pension scheme providing benefits in order to be retirement or similar competitive and to ensure benefits.
The Group its ability to recruit and does not contribute retain Executive Directors.
to any personal pension schemes for employees.
However, the Company offers a retirement plan in accordance with subsection 401 k of the Internal Revenue Code 401 k Plan in which Executive Directors may make voluntary pre-tax contributions toward their own retirement.
The Company does not make any payments or contributions to such 401 k Plan.
Page 78 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 78 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Allied Minds The LTIP provides a The LTIP is reviewed Under the terms of the LTIP, the maximum Specific performance targets may vary from year to year in Long Term competitive, performanceannually at or around value of Ordinary Shares over which accordance with priorities support Incentive Plan linked long-term incentive the start of each awards under the LTIP may be granted the business strategy.
LTIP mechanism that will: financial year to to a participant in any financial year of In respect of the LTIP awards ensure the detailed the Company may not generally exceed attract, retain and made in 2014 and 2015, vesting performance measures 300% of base salary for that financial motivate individuals with is dependent upon performance and weightings are year, unless circumstances arise which the required personal metrics measured as follows: appropriate and the Committee believe justify granting an attributes, skills and 60% of each award will be continue to support the award outside this limit.
The Committee experience: subject to performance conditions business strategy.
would only envisage overriding the 300% based on the Companys provide a real incentive limit in exceptional circumstances such Financial and or nontotal shareholder return TSR to achieve the as where there was a need to do so to performance in respect of a financial performance Companys long-term attract a new executive.
three-year period: and targets are set at or strategic objectives: and around the start of Notwithstanding the maximum value 40% of each award will align the interests of be subject to performance each financial year.
permitted under the terms of the LTIP, management and conditions based on a basket each year the Committee determines the Awards under the LTIP of shareholder value metrics, shareholders.
maximum opportunity for each Executive to Executive Directors including, but not limited to: Director.
The maximum opportunity for will normally take the i the increase in quality of each Executive Director in 2016 is set at form of restricted share pipeline intellectual property 225% of base salary.
units RSUs a form reviewed: ii the increase in quality of the partnership of conditional share During 2015, the LTIP awards made pipeline: and iii subsidiary award in respect of to the Chief Executive Officer had a level performance assessed shares in Allied Minds maximum value of 233% of base salary.
by reference to such matters although instruments When making a determination as to as external funding raised, with similar economic corporate collaborations, the appropriate maximum LTIP award, effect may be used if product co-development and the Committee where it is relevant, considered appropriproof of principal commercial benchmarks the remuneration against the pilots and revenues.
Performance will be assessed Calculations of the on these measures on a For the purpose of benchmarking achievement of the scorecard basis over a three LTIP awards and other remuneration, vesting targets are year period.
the principal peer grouping used by reviewed and approved At the end of the three year the Company consists of companies by the Committee.
period, performance against within similar industry sectors which are the relevant measures will be Awards are subject to either US or UK listed with a range of calculated to determine the cancellation or clawcapitalisations.
number of Ordinary Shares back provisions under capable of vesting.
For the which in the event of 2014 awards, 50% of the award a material correction will then vest at that time.
The remaining 50% will vest in two of any accounts of equal tranches in years 4 and 5 the Company used to subject to the relevant participant assess satisfaction of still being employed within the any performance conGroup at the relevant vesting date.
ditions, or in the event For the 2015 awards, 100% of the of a participants gross award will vest at the end of the misconduct, awards three year period.
may be reduced, The level of vesting for threshold adjusted or cancelled performance for the 2015 awards as determined by the is 33.33% of the maximum.
The level of vesting for target Committee.
Clawback performance is 66.67% of the applies for the two maximum.
year period following Starting in 2016, the Committee vesting.
expects to make annual awards under the LTIP with 100% of each award subject to performance conditions based on the Companys relative total shareholder return rTSR performance in respect of a threeyear period.
The Group TSR will be measured relative to the FTSE 250, the S&P 500, and a peer group of four publicly-traded companies.
The level of vesting for threshold performance is 16.67% of the maximum.
The level of vesting for target performance is 66.67% of the maximum.
Page 79 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 79 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Allied Minds The Committee intention The Phantom Plan is The maximum aggregate number of units No amounts accrue under the Phantom Plan is to reward participants a performance-based, that may be awarded under the Phantom Phantom Plan, and no amounts for a successful subsidiary cash settled bonus Plan is 200,000 units.
are distributed to participants, company liquidity event.
plan for Allied Minds until and unless a successful Upon a liquidity event Allied Minds will The Committee recognises Executive Directors subsidiary company liquidity distribute 80% of the Phantom Plan that successful subsidiary and management.
The event occurs, and the cash account to the participants based on company liquidity events Plan is triggered by a generated in such liquidity their pro rata share of all vested units are a key strategic successful subsidiary event exceeds the amount on the date of the applicable liquidation objective of the Group liquidity event, including Allied Minds invested in such event, and the remaining 20% of the and its shareholders, i a subsidiary IPO, subsidiary company, plus Phantom Plan account will be distributed and believes that the ii the sale of all or accrued interest and expenses to participants at the discretion of the Phantom Plan is designed substantially all of a in respect of such investment.
to align the interests of subsidiary companys No other performance metrics Notwithstanding the 20% discretionary the Executive Directors assets, iii the sale of at apply.
allocation, it is the current intention of and management of Allied least two-thirds of the the Committee to allocate 100% of the Minds with such objective.
outstanding shares of a Phantom Plan account to the participants subsidiary companys based on their pro rata share of all vested voting equity, iv the units.
merger or consolidation of a subsidiary company with or into another entity, or v a subsidiary companys liquidation.
Upon a liquidity event, Allied Minds will deduct the amount it invested in such subsidiary company and deduct the accrued interest in respect of such investment, and will then allocate 10% of the remaining net proceeds to the Phantom Plan account for allocation among the participants.
Participation in the Phantom Plan is evidenced by units.
Vesting of units is determined at the time of grant of the units.
Current intention is for a proportion of the units to vest at grant and the remainder on an annual basis over a two year period.
Page 80 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 80 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Element of How it supports the Operation Opportunity Performance Remuneration Companys Short and Metrics Long-Term Strategic Objectives Non-Executive The Companys Non-Executive The current fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors There are no Directors Fees intention is to set fees Directors have specific are as detailed below.
In each case the fees paid take performance at a level necessary terms of engagement account of responsibilities in acting as Chairman of the conditions to attract and retain provided in formal Board, Chairman of a Board Committee or as Senior attached to the experienced and skilled letters of appointment.
payment of fees or Non-Executive Directors Their remuneration the vesting under with the necessary is determined by the awards granted 2015 2014 Review experience and the Board, taking under the LTIP.
$000 $000 Date expertise to advise and into account assist in establishing recommendations Rick Davis $85 $80 01 Jan and monitoring the from the Remuneration strategic objectives of Committee, within the Peter Dolan $124 $55 01 Jan the Company.
Fees limits set by the Articles Jeff Rohr $100 $65 01 Jan also reflect the time of Association and commitment and based on equivalent Kevin Sharer $49 01 Jan responsibilities of the roles in FTSE 250 roles.
companies and the Jill Smith 01 Jan peer groups used for An additional fee is paid Executive Directors.
The The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed for Chairmanship of a fees for Non-Executive in January 2016 and the decision taken to set the fees Board Committee and Directors are reviewed for 2016, for any Non-Executive Directors serving in the to the Chairman of the annually and fixed for following capacities, as follows: Board.
The Non-Executive Directors 2016 2015 are appointed for a $000 $000 three year term, subject to annual re-election by Annual Cash the shareholders, at the Component Companys AGM.
Non-Executive Director $75 $75 Non-Executive Directors do not receive any cash Audit Committee Chair $25 $25 incentive bonus and do not participate in Remuneration Committee $10 $10 any Company pension Chair scheme.
Nomination Committee $10 $10 The Non-Executive Directors are eligible Chair for RSU awards under Chairman of the Board $75 $75 the LTIP.
Awards to the Non-Executive Annual Equity Directors will be subject Component to time-based vesting provisions, and will Non-Executive Director $50 $50 not be subject to LTIP Award Value performance metrics.
Each Non-Executive Chairman of the Board $75 $75 Director is also entitled LTIP Award Value to reimbursement of reasonable and properly The fees proposed to be paid to the Chairman shall documented expenses only be payable where the Chairman is a Non-Executive incurred in performing Director.
Given the US-based nature of the Groups the duties of their office.
business, and the need to attract and retain independent directors with significant US business and leadership experience, the proposed fees above include an equity component, based upon a recommendation from the Hay Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the level of fees conform to its strategy, whilst remaining competitive against similar roles within the relevant peer groups.
Careful consideration has been given as to whether including an equity component would affect the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, and the conclusion was reached that it would not, given the level of the awards and the fact that they are not performancerelated.
Page 81 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 81 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Remuneration Policy set out in the tables on the previous pages, where the terms of the payment were agreed either: i before the policy came into effect, or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the Annual Remuneration Report as they arise.
Differences between the Remuneration Policy and that applied to employees generally The components of remuneration set out on the previous pages for Executive Directors are also applied to the Groups senior management team and differ only in values and award maxima.
The basic benefits package is typically available to all US employees at the Group level following completion of a probationary period.
Overall, there is more emphasis on variable pay for the Executive Directors and senior management, but all US employees at the Group level are eligible for discretionary cash incentive bonus awards.
In addition, the Company is committed to fostering alignment with shareholders through widespread share ownership, and thus all US employees at the Group level are eligible to participate in the LTIP.
The Group has also implemented equity incentive plans within its subsidiaries in order to incentivise employees within the subsidiary businesses.
Generally, the employees of the subsidiary businesses do not participate in any of the Group level incentive plans.
The Chief Executive Officer of each of our most significant subsidiaries may participate in the future in the LTIP, but the levels of such awards under the LTIP are not expected to be a significant percentage of their total compensation.
Schemes or arrangements under which allocations or awards are no longer being made In addition to the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements set forth in the Remuneration Policy, the Group previously maintained the Allied Minds Stock Option Stock Issuance Plan US Stock Plan.
The Company does not intend to make any further grants under the US Stock Plan.
The interests of the Executive Directors in outstanding options under the US Stock Plan are shown in the statement of directors shareholding and share interest on page 90 of this Annual Report.
The exercise price of the options is equivalent to the fair market value of Common Stock of Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC as at the date of grant of the options and all outstanding options have already vested and become exercisable.
Page 82 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 82 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy The value and composition of the Executive Directors remuneration packages for the year ending 31 December 2016 at minimum, threshold and maximum scenarios under the Remuneration Policy is set out in the chart below.
The chart depicts an estimate of the remuneration that could be received by the Chief Executive Officer under the Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
Each bar is broken down to show how the total under each scenario comprises fixed remuneration salary and benefits, the annual cash incentive bonus award and the LTIP.
Maximum 21% 32% 47% Threshold 80% 20% Minimum 100% - $500 $1,000 $1,500 $2,000 $2,500 Base Bonus LTIP Notes: Fixed remuneration reflects base salary as in effect as of 1 January 2016, and expected cost of benefits.
Cash incentive bonus award for 2016 is capped at 150% of base salary at maximum: there is no minimum bonus award at or below threshold.
Under the LTIP, awards are capped at 300% of base salary at maximum: however, 2016 awards are capped at 225% of base salary at maximum, 25% of base salary at threshold, and nil below threshold.
Awards of restricted share units under the LTIP are made based on a percentage of the participants salary in face value terms and therefore the above amounts relating to the LTIP component reflect this.
Changes in the value of those shares over the vesting period are therefore ignored.
Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The Committee will apply the Remuneration Policy for any new Executive Director recruited to the Board in respect of all elements of forward-looking remuneration.
The maximum level of variable remuneration under the cash incentive bonus awards and LTIP that may be awarded will be within the usual maximums set out in the Remuneration Policy, subject to the exceptions permitted under the LTIP.
The Committee retains flexibility to provide benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, such as relocation, education and tax equalisation, required in order to recruit the intended candidate.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to awards forfeited, taking into account relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the Page 83 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 83 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued timeframe of awards.
It is intended that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited awards.
The Committee would seek as far as possible to make such buyout awards under the Companys existing share plans but, if necessary, may rely on the Listing Rules exemption which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
Similarly, the Remuneration Policy for a new Chairman or new Non-executive Directors would be to apply the same remuneration elements as applicable to existing Non-Executive Directors under the Remuneration Policy.
In addition to the above principles, the following additional considerations may be applied as appropriate depending on the circumstances: In the case of internal promotion, any existing performance-related elements arising from an individuals previous role will continue to be honored under the Remuneration Policy, even if they may not otherwise be consistent with the Remuneration Policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
In the case of promotion to executive director following an acquisition or other business combination, the Committee may permit equity-based incentive arrangements to continue in force if they can be rolled-up into awards over Allied Minds shares provided the performance and vesting conditions are considered appropriate.
In the case of the recruitment of an executive at a time of the year when it would be inappropriate or not possible to provide an LTIP award for that year for instance due to price sensitive information or if there is insufficient time to assess performance, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to and amalgamated with the subsequent years award if considered reasonable to do so by the Committee.
The Committee will include details of the implementation of the Remuneration Policy in respect of any such recruitment to the Board in its future Annual Remuneration Reports.
Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment The Executive Director Chris Silva has a service contract that commenced in May 2014.
At May 2016, and at each anniversary thereafter, the service contract shall be deemed to be automatically extended for successive periods of one year unless either party provides at least ninety 90 days written notice prior to the applicable renewal date of its intention not to extend the term of the service contract.
The Executive Directors contract does not provide for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of a change of control.
However, as noted below, the rules of the LTIP provide that, in the event of a change of control, awards would vest to the extent determined by the Committee where the Committee considers that the performance conditions are satisfied at the date of such event.
If the Executive Directors employment is terminated by Allied Minds for Cause, he shall only be entitled to amounts that are accrued or owing but not yet paid and reimbursement of any properly incurred business expenses but excluding any bonus payments or other compensation provided pursuant to Allied Minds incentive compensation plan such amounts, the Standard Benefit.
Page 84 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 84 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued If the Executive Director terminates the service contract for Good Reason or Allied Minds terminates the service contract without Cause or following delivery by Allied Minds of a Non-Renewal Notice, the Executive Director shall be entitled to: payment of twenty four 24 months base salary in accordance with regular payroll: an annual incentive award equal to the product of: A the Executive Directors average bonus for the prior three 3 years the Average Bonus : and B a fraction based on the number of days in which the Executive Director was employed during that year: pro-rated payments equal to the Executive Directors average bonus during any transition period whilst the Executive continues to receive base salary: and payment of the Standard Benefit.
The Executive Director will also be entitled to: i continued participation under medical insurance plans for a period of six 6 months for him and each of his eligible dependents: and ii continuation of life and disability insurance coverage for six 6 months.
In the event of death or disability, similar payments will be made as those payable as a termination for Good Reason save that the payment of base salary shall only continue for 90 days after the death of the Executive Director and or until the commencement of long term disability payments in the case of termination due to disability.
The Executive Director may terminate his service contract without Good Reason at any time during the term of the employment, provided he gives at least ninety 90 days advance written notice.
If the Executive Director terminates his employment with Allied Minds without Good Reason and not because of his death or due to disability or if such Executive Director delivers to Allied Minds a Non-Renewal Notice, the Executive Director shall be entitled solely to payment of the Standard Benefit.
Each of Rick Davis, Peter Dolan and Jeff Rohr have Non-Executive Director letters of appointment that commenced May 2014.
Kevin Sharer and Jill Smith have Non-Executive Director letters of appointment that commenced June 2015 and January 2016, respectively.
Each of the letters of appointment are for an initial fixed term of three years, which are reviewed and may be extended, and are terminable on one months notice by either party.
The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors do not provide for any compensation on termination.
The service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
In accordance with the Code, all Directors submit themselves for election at the first AGM since their appointment to the Board, and for annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Remuneration Policy on Payment for Loss of Office The Directors believe the payments owed upon loss of office detailed below are customary and appropriate to attract and retain US-based senior management of the highest caliber.
The Committee reserves the right to make payments where they are made in good faith in discharge of an existing obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment where they are in the best interests of Allied Minds and its shareholders and reflecting the directors contractual and legal rights.
Page 85 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 85 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Impact of Loss of Office on Awards under LTIP Participants who cease to be employees, directors or service providers to the Group will normally forfeit any unvested awards.
However, if a participant leaves as a result of death, disability, dismissal other than for cause or any other reason determined by the Committee, awards will vest on the normal vesting date on a pro-rata basis taking into account performance and the period of time since the grant of the award and the date on which the participant ceased to provide services.
The Committee may in its discretion determine that there are exceptional circumstances justifying vesting to a greater or lesser extent.
Impact of Change of Control on Awards under LTIP If there is a change of control of the Company, the number of Ordinary Shares over which awards will vest will be calculated on the basis of the extent to which the performance criteria applicable to those awards have been satisfied as at the date of the change of control.
The resulting number of shares will then be reduced on a pro rata basis to reflect the reduced period between the date the award was made and the date of the change of control, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may recommend full vesting.
This discretion to accelerate vesting upon a change of control is included in the LTIP to meet the expectations of a US-based workforce.
Statement of Consideration of Employment Conditions Elsewhere in the Company In considering changes to the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Committee is mindful of pay and conditions in the wider Group.
Whilst the Group operates a range of bonus plans appropriate to its various businesses, the main drivers of these subsidiary plans, in common with the cash incentive bonus awards to Executive Directors, are the achievement of company milestones, and other company and individual objectives.
The Committee has not expressly sought the views of employees and no remuneration comparison measurements were used when drawing up the Remuneration Policy.
Through the Board, however, the Committee is regularly updated as to employees views on remuneration generally.
In the event that an employee is promoted to the Board, that individual would be allowed to retain any preexisting incentive entitlement that had not vested at that time.
Page 86 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 86 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Remuneration Report pages 87 to 97 The Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
Single Total Figure of Remuneration for Each Director audited The following table sets out the single total figure for remuneration for Directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014.
2 Includes, where applicable, Company contribution to medical and dental insurance premiums, car allowance, and reimbursement for personal legal and tax advice.
3 Equity-based payments in 2014 include awards under the US Stock Plan.
All equity awards, including stock options and restricted stock, under the US Stock Plan became vested and fully exercisable, or vested and fully transferable, in connection with the IPO in 2014.
Also includes the value of restricted stock granted to the non-executive directors that vested in 2015.
No equity-based awards vested under the LTIP during 2015 or 2014.
In addition, no equity-based awards are expected to vest under the LTIP during 2016: however, the performance period for LTIP awards made during 2014 ends on 31 December 2016, and such awards may vest in April 2017.
4 Mr. Pritchard resigned as an Executive Director in September 2015.
5 Includes fees of $50,000 per year as director of Allied Minds, Inc. now Allied Minds, LLC before becoming director of Allied Minds plc in 2014.
6 Mr. Sharer was appointed as a NonExecutive Director in June 2015.
7 Ms. Smith was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in January 2016.
8 In addition, in connection with the IPO, Chris Silva and Rick Davis exercised stock options under the US Stock Plan, resulting in pre-tax gain of $6.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively.
Individual Elements of Remuneration Base Salary and Cash Incentive Bonus Awards during 2015 The Remuneration Committee engaged the Hay Group to conduct a compensation benchmarking study for the Companys senior management in conjunction with the Companys 2015 year-end compensation process, including an analysis of the traditional elements of executive pay base salary, annual cash incentive bonus, long-term equity incentives and total direct compensation.
The Hay Group utilised a variety of information sources to evaluate the market for executive compensation, including an analysis of eight publicly-traded companies.
For the purpose of benchmarking salaries and other remuneration the principal peer grouping used by the Company consisted of listed companies within similar industry sectors with a range of capitalisation.
Page 87 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 87 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Based upon the results of the benchmarking study, the Remuneration Committee concluded each of the Executive Directors total direct compensation was still at or below the 50th percentile of the peer group.
Given the strong Company performance in 2015, and the achievement of Company and individual goals, the Remuneration Committee recommended to the Board a modest 5% increase in the level of cash incentive bonus award, and a 25% increase in base salary, to move the Executive Director total direct compensation towards the 50th percentile of the peer group.
The Remuneration Committee designed the increases to reflect its 2015 policy of moving the Executive Director compensation, in connection with superior performance, towards the 50th percentile of the peer group.
The Remuneration Committee also designed the increases to emphasise the variable component of compensation, by allocating more of the increase to the cash incentive bonus award and not base salary.
Notwithstanding the increases, the Executive Director total direct compensation remained below the median for the peer group during 2015.
The increase in base salary is set forth in the Remuneration Policy tables above.
The increase in cash incentive bonus award is reflected in the table above.
LTIP Awards made during 2015 audited Face value % of value % of value Basis of Number of of award to vest at to vest at Type award shares $000 threshold target Vesting conditions Executive Directors Chris Silva RSU See below 126,630 $1,163 33% 67% Based on performance achievement, 100% at end of 2017 Non-Executive Directors Rick Davis RSU See below 5,446 $50 n a n a Based on service, annually over three years to June 2018 Peter Dolan RSU See below 8,170 $75 n a n a Based on service, annually over three years to June 2018 Jeff Rohr RSU See below 5,446 $50 n a n a Based on service, annually over three years to June 2018 Kevin Sharer RSU See below 5,446 $50 n a n a Based on service, annually over three years to June 2018 At 04 June 2015, the LTIP award above was granted to the Chief Executive Officer.
The total value of the award has been calculated using the closing share price of 599p on such date.
The level of award was determined by the Committee after giving due consideration to the 2014 Hay Group compensation benchmarking study which concluded that the target amount of the award $775,000, or approximately 150% of base salary, would position the CEO below the median for the peer group for total compensation during 2015.
Vesting of the LTIP award is dependent upon performance metrics measured over the three years to 31 December 2017, details of which are set out in the Remuneration Policy table on page 79 of the Report.
The level of vesting for threshold performance is 33.33% of the maximum.
At 04 June 2015, the LTIP awards above were granted to the Non-Executive Directors.
The level of award was determined by the Committee after giving due consideration to the 2014 Hay Group compensation benchmarking study which recommended such awards in light of the US-based nature of the Groups business, and the need to attract and retain independent directors with significant US business and Page 88 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 88 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued leadership experience.
Vesting of the LTIP award is based upon time of service, with each award vesting in three equal installments over a three year period.
There are no performance conditions attached to the vesting under the awards granted under the LTIP.
Long Term Incentive Plan Vesting during 2015 audited information The Company did not make any awards under the LTIP prior to 2014.
Accordingly, no equity-based awards vested under the LTIP during 2015 or 2014.
US Stock Plan Awards made during 2015 audited information The Company did not make any grants under the US Stock Plan in 2015, and does not intend to make any further grants.
Payments to Past Directors audited information No payments to past Directors were made during the last financial year.
Loss of Office Payments audited information No payments for loss of office were made to past Directors during the last financial year.
Total Pension Entitlements audited information No payments for pension entitlements were made to Directors during the last financial year.
The Company offers a retirement plan in accordance with subsection 401 k of the Internal Revenue Code 401 k Plan in which Executive Directors may make voluntary pre-tax contributions toward their own retirement.
Page 89 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 89 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Statement of Directors Shareholding and Share Interests audited Share ownership plays a key role in the alignment of our executives with the interests of shareholders.
In April 2016, the Remuneration Committee adopted a share ownership policy for Executive Directors and persons discharging managerial responsibility PDMRs.
The policy requires Executive Directors and PDMRs to acquire and maintain a minimum ownership level of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, thereby helping to align their interests with those of shareholders.
The Committee has set the current requirements at share value of 400% of base salary for Executive Officers, and share value of 300% of base salary for PDMRs.
The Committee has not set a timeframe during which Executive Officers and PDMRs are required to accumulate their share ownership level.
Whilst the policy was not in effect during the period, the Executive Director met this requirement, and all but one PDMR the Chief Executive Officer met this requirement, who had only been appointed in August 2015.
The table below sets out the number of shares held by Directors as at 31 December 2015, and the Company is not aware of any changes through 25 April 2016.
Shares Shares Options to Shares held conditional on conditional on purchase outright performance service shares Total Executive Directors Chris Silva 2,844,402 1,524,971 3,105,498 7,474,871 Non-Executive Directors Rick Davis 259,600 5,446 265,046 Peter Dolan 39,600 8,170 47,770 Jeff Rohr 39,600 5,446 45,046 Kevin Sharer 5,446 5,446 Jill Smith Page 90 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 90 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance Graph The graph below illustrates the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies and the FTSE All Share index of which the Company is a constituent, from the start of conditional share dealing on 25 June 2014.
The graph shows performance of a hypothetical 100 invested and its performance over that period.
110 108 105 103 100 98 95 31-12 31-12 2014 2015 FTSE All Share FTSE 250 ALM Change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer compared to US Group employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and that of our US Group employees excluding Directors from 2014 to 2015: % change in % change in % change in base salary cash bonus benefits CEO 25.0% 5.0% 5.5% US Group Employees 5.8% 5.2% 4.3% Page 91 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 91 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Historical CEO remuneration outcomes The table below summarises the Chief Executive Officer single total figure for total remuneration, annual cash incentive bonus award, LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity, and US Stock Plan share award vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity, for the last financial year.
As the company listed in 2014, the comparative begins with the 2013 period.
2015 2014 2013 CEO single total figure for remuneration $000 $1,067 $15,942 $1,236 Annual cash incentive bonus award pay-out % of 1 maximum n a n a n a 2 LTIP award vesting % of maximum n a n a n a 3 US Stock Plan award vesting % of maximum n a 100% 100% Notes: 1 The percentage of maximum is not applicable because the Company did not have any cap on cash incentive bonus award payments in those financial years.
For 2016, the Remuneration Committee has adopted a maximum cash incentive bonus award of 150% of base salary for Executive Officers.
2 No equity-based awards vested under the LTIP during 2015, 2014 or 2013.
3 Equity-based payments include awards under the US Stock Plan.
All equity awards, including stock options and restricted stock, under the US Stock Plan became vested and fully exercisable, or vested and fully transferable, in connection with the IPO.
Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows the total employee costs, change in Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value, and change in share price from 2014 to 2015.
The information shown in this chart is based on the following: Total employee pay: Total US Group employee staff costs from note 5 on page 126, including wages and salaries, social security and healthcare costs, and share-based payments.
Change in Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value GSOAV taken from page 21.
Page 92 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 92 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Returns to shareholders: since the Group does not currently pay a dividend, returns to shareholders are represented by the change in the Groups share price over the period from 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2015.
535.8 488.0 40.1 400.0 367.0 29.6 Total employee costs GSOAV $m Share Price p $m 35.4% 9.8% 9.0% 2015 2014 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year Base Salary and Benefits Effective from 01 January 2016, the base salary of the Executive Director will be: Base Salary Increase % Increase Chris Silva $515,000 $15,000 3% The Committee considers that, as part of a competitive overall package, base salaries should be within a market-competitive range, which is considered to be up to median level compared with the Companys peer groups.
As noted above, based upon the results of the peer benchmarking study, the strong Company performance in 2015, and the achievement of Company and individual goals, the Board recommended a modest 3% increase in base salary.
In addition, the 3% increase is consistent with the target cost-of-living increase that was implemented across the Group to US employees.
The benefits package during 2016 will continue to be in line with US employment market practice and the Remuneration Policy.
Cash Incentive Bonus Awards The Remuneration Committee expects to implement the following changes to the cash incentive bonus awards, which are permitted under the current Remuneration Policy and shall permitted under the revised Remuneration Policy in this Annual Report.
During 2015, there was no cap on the amount of bonus to be paid to Executive Directors.
Under the revised Remuneration Policy, each year the Committee will determine the maximum opportunity for each Executive Director.
The maximum opportunity for each Executive Director in 2016 is set at 150% of base salary, which is considered to be up to median level compared with the Companys peer groups.
The Executive Directors cash incentive bonus awards shall be considered by the Committee upon completion of the financial year.
The decision to provide any cash incentive bonus award and the amount and terms of any such award, are determined solely by the level of achievement against the MBOs set by Page 93 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 93 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued the Committee at the start of the financial year.
The annual MBOs, including financial, operational, technical and other performance targets and their weightings for the upcoming year were set at the start of 2016.
Long Term Incentive Plan The Remuneration Committee expects to implement the following changes to the LTIP awards, which are permitted under the current Remuneration Policy and shall permitted under the revised Remuneration Policy in this Annual Report.
During 2015, there was no cap on the amount of LTIP award to be made to Executive Directors, other than the cap of 300% of base salary per financial year as specified in the LTIP.
The maximum opportunity for each Executive Director in 2016 is set at 225% of base salary, which is considered to be up to median level compared with the Companys peer groups.
Starting in 2016, the Committee expects to make annual awards under the LTIP with 100% of each award subject to performance conditions based on the Companys relative total shareholder return rTSR performance in respect of a three-year period.
In respect of the 2014 and 2015 awards, the Committee expects vesting to continue to be dependent upon performance metrics as follows: 60% of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on the Companys total shareholder return performance in respect of a three-year period: and 40% of each award will be subject to performance conditions based on a basket of shareholder value metrics, including but not limited to: i the increase in quality of pipeline intellectual property reviewed: ii the increase in quality of the partnership pipeline: and iii subsidiary level performance assessed by reference to such matters as external funding raised, corporate collaborations, product co-development and proof of principal commercial pilots and revenues.
Performance will be assessed on these measures on a scorecard basis over a three year period.
In respect of the 2014 and 2015 awards, at the end of the three year period, performance against the relevant measures will be calculated to determine the number of Ordinary Shares capable of vesting.
The level of vesting for threshold performance will be 33.33% of the maximum.
The level of vesting for target performance will be 66.67% of the maximum.
Page 94 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 94 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Effective from 01 January 2016, the base salaries of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will be: 2016 Cash Component Non-Executive Director Annual Fee $75,000 Audit Committee Chair Annual Fee $25,000 Remuneration Committee Chair Annual Fee $10,000 Nomination Committee Chair Annual Fee $10,000 Chairman of the Board Annual Fee $75,000 Equity Component Non-Executive Director LTIP Award Value $50,000 Chairman of the Board LTIP Award Value $75,000 The Chairman, Non-Executive Director and Committee Chair annual fees set forth in the table above remain unchanged from 2015.
The additional fee for serving as Chairman shall only be payable where the Chairman is a Non-Executive Director.
Given the US-based nature of the Groups business, and the need to attract and retain independent directors with significant US business and leadership experience, the proposed fees above include an equity component, which will have a time-based vesting schedule.
Chris Silva, as an Executive Director, will not be entitled to any Board fees.
Outside Appointments for Executive Directors Any proposed external directorships are considered and approved by the Board to ensure they do not cause a conflict of interest but, subject to this, Executive Directors may accept outside non-executive appointments.
Limits on the number of shares used to satisfy share awards dilution limits All of the Groups incentive schemes that contain an element that may be satisfied in Allied Minds plc shares incorporate provisions that in any ten-year period ending on the relevant date of grant, the maximum number of the shares that may be issued or issuable under all such schemes shall not exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time excluding shares issued pursuant to awards granted prior to IPO under the US Stock Plan.
The Committee regularly monitors the position and prior to the making of any share-based award, considers the effect of potential vesting of outstanding awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 31 December 2015.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The full terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Groups website at www.
In summary, the Remuneration Committee has specific responsibility for advising the Board on the remuneration and other benefits of executive directors, an overall policy in respect of remuneration of other employees of the Group and establishing the Groups policy with respect to employee incentivisation schemes.
Page 95 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 95 21 04 2016 13:26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Remuneration Committee is currently comprised of the following independent Non-Executive Directors, all of whom served from 04 June 2015 through the end of the financial year, and whose backgrounds and experience are summarised on pages 46 to 47: Kevin Sharer Chair Rick Davis Jeff Rohr From 01 January 2015 through 04 June 2015, the Committee was comprised of Rick Davis Chair, Peter Dolan and Jeff Rohr.
Committee meetings are administered and minuted by the Company Secretary.
In addition, the Committee received assistance from the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief Financial Officer and Director of Finance, each of who attend certain meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration were being discussed.
During the year, the key activities carried out by the Committee were: In connection with the appointment of a new Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, carried out a thorough review of all elements of remuneration for Executive Directors and senior management: Reviewed feedback received from major shareholders and shareholder advisory services in connection with the implementation and adoption of the initial Remuneration Policy in 2015: In connection with the annual review of the Remuneration Policy, revised and proposed the adoption of the new Remuneration Policy set forth on pages 74 to 86, which considered the shareholder feedback and was designed to be appropriate for a UK listed company, whilst also ensuring that it was designed to continue to attract and retain US-based management and employees of the highest caliber: In the new Remuneration Policy, provided for i a revised process for the determination of annual cash incentive bonus awards which will utilize specific performance targets and weighting set in advance from year to year, and ii revised performance metrics for future LTIP awards to be solely based upon relative total shareholder return rTSR : Reviewed the LTIP to ensure that it continues to advance the Committees policy to provide a competitive, performance-linked long-term incentive mechanism that will: i attract, retain and motivate individuals with the required personal attributes, skills and experience, ii provide a real incentive to achieve the Companys long-term strategic objectives, and iii and align the interests of management and shareholders: Considered i the individual performance of the Executive Directors, ii the general performance of the Company, and iii KPIs, the achievement of Company milestones, and other Company and individual objectives, and carried out benchmarking, in order to determine the cash incentive bonus awards for the Executive Officers for the last financial year: Considered the i scale, scope and responsibility of the role, ii skills and experience of the individual, iii retention risk, iv base salary of other employees, v and economic environment, and carried out benchmarking, in order to determine base salaries of the Executive Directors, for the period starting 01 January 2016: Page 96 of 165 020 c112021 5.5. indd 96 21 04 2016 13:26 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Issued LTIP awards at 04 June 2015: Reviewed progress against 2014 and 2015 LTIP award performance targets for the last financial year: Established 2014 and 2015 LTIP award performance targets for the current financial year: and Reviewed the remuneration reporting regulations in connection with the review and revision of the Groups Remuneration Policy and preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
External advisers The Remuneration Committee is authorised, if it wishes, to seek independent specialist services to provide information and advice on remuneration at the Companys expense, including attendance at Committee meetings.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee continued its review of executive remuneration and took into consideration professional advice from Hay Group carried out in the period from June 2015 through December 2015.
Hay Group performed peer benchmarking to assist the Committee with determinations regarding base salary, cash incentive bonus awards, and proposed LTIP awards.
Fees paid to Hay Group in connection with advice to the Committee in 2015 were $28,000 2014: $83,000.
Hay Group did not provide any other services or advice to the Group during the year.
They are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adhere to its Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Statement of voting at general meeting The table below sets out the proxy results of the vote on the Groups Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy at the Groups 2015 AGM: Votes for Votes against % of cast % of cast Votes Number votes Number votes Votes cast withheld Remuneration Report 160,918,780 97.02% 4,945,679 2.98% 165,864,459 1,069,036 Remuneration Policy 155,007,391 92.86% 11,926,105 7.14% 166,933,496 0 Remuneration disclosure This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 and the Listing Rules.
Approval This Directors Remuneration Report, including both the Remuneration Policy and Annual Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors.
