Remuneration report Ashmores successful team-based approach Annual bonuses for Executive Directors Remuneration Committee to investment management is well supported were increased relative to the prior year.
Chairmans summary statement by its Remuneration Policy: Executive Ashmores remuneration structure has The Directors Remuneration Policy, Directors, members of the investment team, remained unchanged since the Company first which was approved by shareholders and indeed all other employees, participate listed, and is designed to align all employees on 30 October 2014, is set out in the in a single capped incentive pool and with the long-term success of the business.
first section of the report.
employees are long-term shareholders in As regulations in relation to remuneration the business.
Ashmores Remuneration The Remuneration Committee continue to develop, we see the Policy has always been closely aligned to would welcome your support for the remuneration structures and policies of other the long-term interests of both clients and Directors Remuneration report.
similar firms converging with the policies shareholders.
The policy includes: Yours sincerely and practices Ashmore has had in place since A capped basic salary to contain the fixed listing, with significant levels of deferral, cost base: a clear link between performance and levels Simon Fraser of remuneration and strong alignment of A cap on the total variable compensation Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors and employees with including any awards made under the shareholders and clients through significant Companys share plan, available for all employee share ownership.
employees at 25% of profits, which has Activities yet to be fully utilised: and At the 2015 AGM the Company intends to The members of the Remuneration A deferral for five years of a substantial renew its existing share plan, which comes Committee have the appropriate portion of variable compensation into to the end of its 10 year life in 2016, in order balance of skills, experience, Company shares or equivalent, which, that Ashmore can continue with its current independence and knowledge in the case of Executive Directors is also practices for the next period of the firms of the Company to enable them to subject to additional performance development.
The renewed share plan will discharge their respective duties and conditions measured over five years.
remain substantially unchanged, whilst responsibilities effectively, and met incorporating necessary updates as a result As described in detail in other sections of five times during the year.
The of changes to remuneration regulation which the annual report, AuM declined by 21% and Directors Remuneration Policy and have arisen since 2006. average AuM declined by 12% as a result Annual Report on Remuneration on of net outflows of US$9.5 billion, negative pages 53 to 65 describe the various The Company intends to introduce additional investment performance of US$6.0 billion, matters which have been the principal performance conditions forawards made and a disposal of US$0.6 billion.
Investment areas of focus for the Remuneration to Executive Directors under the share performance remains good with 60% and Committee in FY2014 15. plan forthe year ending 30 June 2016 and 81% of AuM outperforming benchmarks thereafter, in order to further align the During the year under review the over three years and five years, respectively.
remuneration of Executive Directors with the Remuneration Committee comprised interests of shareholders.
In addition to the Higher performance fees and disciplined the following Non-executive Directors existing relative TSR performance condition, control of operating costs resulted in and was fully compliant with the Code: the Company will introduce performance adjusted EBITDA of 176.7 milllion, a decline conditions relating to investment Simon Fraser Chairman of 9% compared with the prior year, and performance, growth in assets under Michael Benson a stable adjusted EBITDA margin of 67%.
A stronger US dollar against Sterling Nick Land delivered a foreign exchange translation gain As shareholders will be aware, Ashmore Dame Anne Pringle versus a loss in the prior year, and means has a 30 June year end, and as a result 2014 Charles Outhwaite that profit before tax increased by 6%.
was the first year in which the Company was required to comply with the new regulations Charles Outhwaite stepped down This performance is reflected in the variable governing disclosure of Directors from the Remuneration Committee compensation received by employees, remuneration, which the Company elected on 22 May 2015.
All other members of including the Executive Directors, for the year to adopt early in 2013.
In 2014, the Directors the Remuneration Committee served under review, with variable compensation as Remuneration Policy DRP was subject to a throughout the year.
a percentage of earnings before variable binding vote for the first time and the Annual compensation, interest and tax VC EBVCIT Report on Remuneration ARR was subject being 18.5% FY 2013 14: 20%.
The Remuneration Policy formally became effective from 30 October 2014.
52 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Directors remuneration policy The terms of reference for the Remuneration This section of the Remuneration report Details of votes cast to approve the Directors Committee include: has been prepared in accordance with Remuneration Policy and last years Annual Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Report on Remuneration are provided in reviewing the ongoing appropriateness Companies and Groups Accounts and the Annual Report on Remuneration section and relevance of the remuneration policy: Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. of this report.
reviewing the design of all share incentive It sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Considerations elsewhere plans for approval by the Board and Company.
The Policy has been developed in the Company shareholders: taking into account the principles of the The Company applies a consistent UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 and ensuring that members of the executive remuneration philosophy for employees shareholders executive remuneration management of the Company are at all levels.
The Policy was approved by provided with appropriate incentives to a binding shareholder vote in 2014. encourage enhanced performance and The cap on base salary means that Executive that remuneration incentives are Directors base salaries are set at a similar Policy overview compatible with the Companys risk level to other senior investment and The Remuneration Committee determines policies and systems: professional employees in the Company, and and agrees with the Board, the Companys the base salary range from lowest to highest making recommendations to the policy on the remuneration of the Board in the Company is considerably narrower Board as to the Companys framework or Chairman, Executive Directors and other than the market norm.
broad policy for the remuneration of the members of executive management Chairman, the Executive Directors and the All employees are eligible for a performanceincluding employees designated as Code Company Secretary and to determine their related annual bonus, and the principle Staff under the FCAs Remuneration Code.
total individual remuneration packages of bonus deferral into Company shares or The Remuneration Committees terms including bonuses, incentive payments equivalent applies to annual bonuses for of reference are available on the and share options or other share awards: all employees who have at least one full Companys website.
ensuring that a significant proportion years service.
Rates of pension contribution In determining the Remuneration Policy, of Executive Directors remuneration and fringe benefit provisions are consistent the Remuneration Committee takes into is structured so as to link rewards to between executives and other employees account the following: corporate and individual performance and within each country where the that performance conditions are stretching Company operates.
the need to encourage and promote and designed to promote the long-term the long-term success of the Company: The Company does not operate formal success of the Company: and the need to attract, retain and motivate employee consultation on remuneration.
ensuring that contractual terms on talented Executive Directors and senior However, employees are able to provide termination, and any payments made, management: direct feedback on the Companys are fair to the individual and the Company, Remuneration Policy to their line managers consistency with the remuneration that failure is not rewarded and that the or the Human Resources department.
principles applied to Ashmore employees duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
The Remuneration Committee monitors as a whole: the effectiveness of the Companys The number of Remuneration Committee external comparisons to examine current Remuneration Policy in recruiting, retaining, meetings and their attendance by the market trends and practices and equivalent engaging and motivating employees, and Directors are set out in the table on page roles in similar companies taking into receives reports from the Chief Executive 45.
In addition, and in accordance with the account their size, business complexity, Officer on how the Companys remuneration terms of reference, the members of the international scope and relative policies are viewed by employees and Remuneration Committee were also performance: and whether they are meeting business needs.
consulted on a range of issues during the requirements of the Remuneration the year, including specific matters related The Remuneration Committee does not Code of the UK financial services regulator.
seek to apply fixed ratios between the total How the views of shareholders are remuneration levels of different roles in taken into account the Company, as this would prevent it from The Remuneration Committee regularly recruiting and retaining the necessary talent compares the Companys Remuneration in a highly competitive employment market.
Policy with shareholder guidelines, and takes However, the base salary multiple between account of the results of shareholder votes highest and lowest paid UK-based employees on remuneration.
in the Company is less than 4x pre-tax.
If material changes to the Remuneration Policy table Policy are contemplated, the Remuneration The table overleaf summarises the key Committee Chairman consults with major aspects of the Companys Remuneration shareholders about these in advance.
Policy for Executive Directors, which is effective from 30 October 2014.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Directors remuneration policy continued Figure 1 Remuneration Policy the Policy for Executive Directors BASE SALARY Fixed pay PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES LONG-TERM STRATEGY AND PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provides a level of fixed remuneration sufficient to permit a zero Base salaries are capped.
bonus payment should that be appropriate.
The cap on base salary MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY helps to contain fixed costs.
The cap is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the cap to be changed if this is deemed necessary to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
FRINGE BENEFITS Fixed pay PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES LONG-TERM STRATEGY AND PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provide cost-effective benefits, to support the wellbeing The Company currently provides fringe benefits such as medical of employees.
In the event of relocation of an executive, the Company could consider appropriate relocation assistance.
Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to time, within the Policy.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only a small percentage of total remuneration.
PENSION Fixed pay PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES LONG-TERM STRATEGY AND PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK Provides a basic level of Company contribution, which Company contributions are made, normally on a defined employees can supplement with their contributions.
contribution basis, either to a pension plan or in the form of an equivalent cash allowance.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY The current level of Company contribution increased on 1 January 2015 from 7% to 9% of base salary, with a further matching contribution of up to 1% of base salary should the Executive Director make a personal contribution of an equivalent amount.
The contribution level is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the contribution rate to be amended if necessary to reflect trends in market practice.
54 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance VARIABLE COMPENSATION Discretionary 3.
Matching Shares awarded on the voluntarily commuted PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND cash bonus from 1. above LONG-TERM STRATEGY Matching is provided on the voluntarily commuted cash bonus, Rewards performance and aligns executives closely with subject to the same performance condition on half of the matching other shareholders.
award as that described in 2. above.
The maximum match used to OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND date on any award made under the current policy was one-for-one: PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK the policy permits the matching level to be changed for future Executive Directors are considered each year for a discretionary awards but not to exceed three-for-one.
Dividends or dividend variable pay award depending on personal and Company equivalents on deferred Bonus Share or Phantom equivalent performance, by applying a range of performance indicators such awards and on the portion of Restricted Share and Matching Share as growth in AuM, investment performance, profits, and strategic awards that are not subject to a performance condition vesting and operational achievements.
The variable pay award comprises after five years will be paid out in line with the Companys dividend a cash bonus part of which may be voluntarily deferred and payment schedule.
Dividends or dividend equivalents on the a long-term incentive in the form of both a Restricted Share portion of Restricted and Matching Share or Phantom equivalent award and a Matching Share award on any voluntarily deferred awards which are subject to a performance condition will be cash bonus.
accrued and paid out at the time the award vests and to the extent of vesting.
For any awards made to a Director prior to their 1.
Cash bonus 60% of total award appointment as a Director, the dividend or dividend equivalent The executive may voluntarily commute up to half of the cash payments are made on share awards in full, under previous bonus in return for the same value in a Bonus Shares award commitments made to participants.
or Phantom equivalent deferred for five years.
The deferred In addition to the TSR condition described above, clawback shares are eligible for Matching Shares or Phantom equivalent can be applied to the long-term incentive components during vesting after five years subject to conditions see 3. opposite.
the five-year deferral period, if performance has been materially misstated or there is gross misconduct.
Long-term incentives under the Company Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan The Remuneration Policy permits the award of deferred remuneration in alternative forms such as share options, 2.
Restricted Shares award 40% of total award although none have been granted in recent years, and to vary This is compulsorily deferred into Company shares or Phantom the percentage split of award between cash and share awards equivalent for a period of five years and does not qualify for to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
Half of this deferred portion is subject to additional performance conditions on vesting.
The policy permits the MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY Committee to set suitable performance conditions for each award.
The aggregate variable compensation pool for all employees, including executives, is capped, currently at 25% of earnings The performance condition for the most recent award was before variable compensation, interest and tax EBVCIT.
The policy relative total shareholder return TSR measured against an asset permits the Remuneration Committee to vary this cap if necessary management peer group, measured over five years.
None of to meet business needs.
the award vests below median TSR: 25% of the award vests at median: 100% vests at upper quartile straight-line proportionate The policy is to cap the aggregate sum available for variable vesting between median and upper quartile.
compensation rather than to cap individual variable compensation awards, as the capping of individuals is not market practice for most of the Companys peer group.
The high proportion of variable compensation deferral, with vesting after five years and subject in part to ongoing performance conditions, encourages a prudent approach to risk management, in support of the Companys risk and compliance controls.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Directors remuneration policy continued If the employing company terminates the employment of an Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Executive Director without giving the period of notice required Directors compared to other employees under the contract, the Executive Director would be entitled to The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is generally claim recompense for up to one years remuneration subject to consistent with that for employees across the Company as a whole.
consideration of the obligation to mitigate the loss.
Such recompense However, there are some differences which the Remuneration is expected to be limited to base salary due for any unexpired notice Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different period: any amount assessed by the Remuneration Committee as responsibilities of employees across the Company.
Below Executive representing the value of other contractual benefits, and pension Director level, whilst the same five-year deferral policy applies, share which would have been received during the period.
In the event awards are not subject to an additional performance condition.
of a change of control of the Company there is no enhancement External Non-executive Director positions to these terms.
Executive Directors are permitted to serve as Non-executive In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: Directors of other companies where there is no competition with the Companys business activities and where these duties do not Provision Detailed terms interfere with the individuals ability to perform his duties for the Notice period 12 months Company.
Tom Shippey holds two external appointments with Termination payment in the Base salary plus value of benefits companies limited by guarantee having social and charitable event of termination by the including pension paid monthly and purposes respectively.
Save as aforesaid Executive Directors Company without due notice subject to mitigation do not presently hold any external appointments with any non Change of control Same terms as above on termination Ashmore-related companies.
Any outstanding share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the Companys share plans will be determined Where an outside appointment is accepted in based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment is that any furtherance of the Companys business, any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, retirement fees received are remitted to the Company.
or other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration If the appointment is not connected to the Committee taking into account the individuals performance and Companys business, the Executive Director the reasons for their departure, good leaver status can be applied.
is entitled to retain any fees received.
An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence Approach to remuneration for of certain events such as gross misconduct.
new Executive Director appointments The remuneration package for an externally recruited new Executive Incentive plan discretions Director would be set in accordance with the terms and maximum The Remuneration Committee will operate the current share plans levels of the Companys approved Remuneration Policy in force at in accordance with their respective rules and the policy set out above, the time of appointment.
and in accordance with the Listing Rules and relevant legislation or regulation.
As is consistent with market practice, the Remuneration In addition, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional cash Committee retains discretion over a number of areas relating to and or share-based elements to take account of any remuneration operating and administrating these plans.
These include but are relinquished when leaving the former employer when it considers not limited to the following: these to be in the best interests of the Company and therefore shareholders.
In considering any such payments the Committee Who participates in the plans: would take account of the nature, vesting dates and any performance The timing of the grant of an award and or payment: requirements attached to the relinquished remuneration.
For an The size of an award and or a payment within the plan limits internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect approved by shareholders: of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted if necessary to take into account the appointment.
The choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules For external and internal appointments, the Company may meet of each plan including the treatment of delisted companies for certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
the purpose of the TSR comparator group : Service contracts and loss of office payment policy Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors event of a change of control or reconstruction: agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified The service contracts contain provisions for early termination.
categories for incentive plan purposes, based on the rules of Notice periods are limited to 12 months by either party.
Service each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: and agreements contain no contractual entitlement to receive variable Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights pay: participation in these arrangements is at the Remuneration issues, corporate restructuring, special dividends and on a change Committees discretion.
The Executive Directors service contracts of control.
are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
56 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be provides an indication of the potential range of total remuneration explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
As appropriate, using the highest and lowest variable pay awards in a rolling five-year it might also be the subject of consultation with the Companys period and assuming full vesting, five years later, of the long-term major shareholders.
incentive components based on upper quartile TSR.
Legacy arrangements Non-executive Directors are engaged under letters of appointment For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy includes authority for the and do not have contracts of service.
They are appointed for an Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or initial three-year period, subject to annual shareholder re-election.
former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous Their continued engagement is subject to the requirements of Remuneration Reports.
Details of any payments to former Directors the Companys Articles relating to the retirement of Directors by will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Reward scenarios The Companys Policy results in the majority of the remuneration Compliance with the Remuneration Code received by the Executive Directors being dependent on The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews its Remuneration Company performance.
Policys compliance with the principles of the Remuneration Code of the UK financial services regulator, as applicable to Ashmore.
As noted earlier, the policy is not to cap individual awards, but The Remuneration Policy is designed to be consistent with the rather the aggregate pool.
As such it is not possible to demonstrate prudent management of risk, and the sustained, long-term minimum, target and maximum remuneration levels.
In lieu of this, performance of the Company.
the minimum fixed remuneration is illustrated in Figure 2, which Figure 2 Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance 000 CEO Fixed minimum Lowest pay received in 5 year rolling period Highest pay received in 5 year rolling period GFD Fixed minimum Lowest pay received in 5 year rolling period Highest pay received in 5 year rolling period 000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 Base salary Pension Share bonus face value using share price at grant Benets Cash bonus LTI: Restricted Shares and Matching awards face value using share price at grant Notes: The lowest pay received data reflects partial prior year comparison data for the Group Finance Director as he was appointed part way through the year ending 30 June 2014.
The highest pay received data for the Group Finance Director is for the year ending 30 June 2015 and is shown prior to any election to commute cash bonus for Bonus and Matching Shares.
Figure 3 Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other Non-executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum The overall fees payable to Board Chairman fee To pay an all-inclusive basic The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for Non-executive Directors will remain fee that takes account of all his responsibilities.
The level of the fee within the limit stated in the Articles the role and responsibilities is reviewed periodically by the Committee, of Association, currently 750,000 with reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies, and a recommendation The current level of fees is is then made to the Board without the disclosed in the Annual Report Chairman being present on Remuneration Non-executive To pay an all-inclusive basic The Non-executives are paid a single inclusive The overall fees payable to Director fees fee that takes account of basic fee.
There are no supplements for Non-executive Directors will remain the role and responsibilities Committee Chairmanships or memberships.
within the limit stated in the Articles The fee levels are reviewed periodically of Association, currently 750,000 by the Chairman and Executive Directors The current level of fees is disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
Figure 4 Remuneration for the year ending 30 June 2015 audited information The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in the year ending 30 June 2015.
Benefits for Executive Directors include membership of the Company medical scheme.
Long-term incentives vesting relates to awards with performance conditions where the performance period has ended in the relevant financial year and payments of dividends or dividend equivalents on such awards.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2015, Mark Coombswaived any eligibility for, and any right or expectation to receive a cashbonus of up to435,000, which has been excluded from the figure in the table.
The waived amount is to be used by the Company for the general benefit of employees.
Had he not waived this amount, then Mark Coombs cash bonus would have been 1,800,000.
Mark Coombs and Tom Shippeys variable compensation is made up of 60% cash bonus and 40% deferred Restricted Share or Restricted Phantom Share awards.
They may commute up to 50% of their cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of Bonus Share or Phantom Bonus Share awards and an equivalent value in Matching Share or Phantom Matching Share awards.
All Share or Phantom Share awards will be reported in the Directors Share and Phantom Share award tables in the year of grant.
Tom Shippey chose to commute 50% of his cash bonus in 2014 for an equivalent amount of Bonus Share awards.
Total bonus award for the year ending 30 June 2015 Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Finance Director GFD performance measures The decision regarding the bonus award for the year under review for the CEO was based on annual performance against financial objectives 75% and achievement of non-financial, business development and management objectives 25%.
The bonus award for the GFD was based on his performance against operational objectives related to the departments he manages 45%, management of subsidiary business activities outside the UK, including joint ventures 20%, corporate development and contribution to business strategy 20% and investor relations and communication with stakeholders 15%.
The performance criteria and performance outcomes for both the CEO and the GFD, as assessed by the Committee, are shown in the table opposite.
As described in detail in other sections of the annual report, while average AuM declined 12%, higher performance fees and disciplined control of operating costs delivered adjusted EBITDA of 176.7 million, a reduction of 9% compared with the prior year, and astable adjusted EBITDA margin of 67%.
Investment performance remains good, and profit before tax increased 6% with the benefit of a stronger US dollar against Sterling.
The Remuneration Committee ensures that there is a clear relationship between the Groups performance and the remuneration of the CEO and GFD.
For additional information, Figure 6 shows the history of financial results for the last five years.
In respect of deferred Share awards which have been waived to charity, any dividend equivalents associated with the amounts waived are paid directly to the nominated charities.
The figures shown exclude the amounts waived.
6. Dividend equivalents were paid relating to voluntarily deferred Share or Phantom Share awards in the period.
Tom Shippey was appointed as Group Finance Director on 25 November 2013.
2014 figures shown above relate to the period since his appointment.
David Bennett was appointed to the Board on 30 October 2014.
Melda Donnelly retired from the Board on 30 October 2014.
Peter Gibbs was appointed to the Board on 29 April 2015.
Charles Outhwaite resigned from the Board on 22 May 2015.
Figure 5 1 CEO and GFD performance measures Executive Director KPI Areas considered within KPI Weighting Committee assessment CEO Business financial To achieve higher than budgeted EBIT minus performance 75% Satisfactory performance performance fees, to achieve higher than budgeted growth in AuM and to in respect of EBIT and effectively manage investment performance to deliver consistent investment performance.
growth relative to each unblended investment theme AuMbelow target CEO Non-financial Strategy development and implementation, recruitment, 25% Strong management staff turnover and succession planning and regulatory and performance performance compliance adherence GFD Management of Department performance assessed for Finance, 45% Strong departments Corporate Development, Investor Relations, Company performance Secretarial and Facilities GFD Management of Local asset management business growth and development 20% Substantial subsidiary business of profitability and scale, integration of offices and effectiveness development in respect activities outside the UK, of joint venture relationships ofthe majority of activities including joint ventures GFD Corporate development Contribution to the development and implementation 20% Satisfactory and contribution to of strategic goals and increasing value for shareholders performance business strategy GFD Investor relations and Broadening the shareholder base and communicating 15% Good performance communication effectively with external parties, the Board and all other relevant stakeholders 1.
Detailed targets and achievement against these are not included due to commercial sensitivities.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Annual report on remuneration continued Figure 6 Five-year summary of financial results 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 AuM US$bn at period end 58.9 75.0 77.4 63.7 65.8 Operating profit 181.0 171.3 232.0 225.1 239.4 Figure 7 Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2015 audited information Share price on date of award Face value Face value Performance period Name Type of award No.
of shares Date of award % of salary end date Tom Shippey Restricted Shares 33,981 30 September 2014 3.0900 105,001 105% 29 September 2019 Tom Shippey Matching Shares 25,486 30 September 2014 3.0900 78,752 79% 29 September 2019 1.
Mark Coombs did not receive a long-term incentive award in the performance period.
Long-term incentive scheme interests awarded during the year ended 30 June 2015 Figure 7 provides details of the long-term incentive awards that were made during the year.
These represent the mandatory deferral of 40% of the Executive Directors bonus award for the year ended 30 June 2014 into Restricted Shares, and the Matching Award on the voluntarily commuted portion of cash bonus in respect of the year ended 30 June 2014.
Both the Restricted and Matching Share awards vest on the fifth anniversary of the award date, to the extent that the TSR performance condition is met.
TSR is measured relative to an asset management peer group.
The TSR vesting scale and peer group are shown in Figures 8 and 9 respectively.
TSR is a well-established and recognised performance measure, which aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
A comparator group of 18 companies has been selected from the global investment management sector.
The Committee reviews the peer group periodically to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant.
Performance and vesting outcome for the Group Finance Directors 2009 LTIP which vested during 2014 During the period, shares awarded to Tom Shippey in 2009 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date all Bonus, Restricted and Matching shares vested.
These awards were not subject to the TSR performance measure as they were awarded prior to his appointment as an Executive Director.
60 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Figure 8 TSR vesting scale Performance % of award vesting Below median of peer group Zero Median 25% Upper quartile 100% linear interpolation between median and upper quartile Figure 9 TSR peer group Company Country of listing Company Country of listing Aberdeen Asset Management UK Franklin Templeton USA Affiliated Managers USA Henderson Group UK AGF Canada Invesco USA Alliance Bernstein USA Janus Capital USA Azimut Holding Italy Partners Group Holdings Switzerland Blackrock USA Schroders UK CI Financial Income Fund Canada SEI Investments USA Eaton Vance USA T Rowe Price USA Federated Investors USA Waddell and Reed USA Outstanding share awards The table below sets out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards.
Mark Coombs elected to convert his existing Phantom Restricted Share awards, Phantom Bonus Share and Phantom Matching Share awards on the same terms into Restricted Share awards, Restricted Bonus Shares awards and Restricted Matching Share awards on 24 and 30 March 2015.
In view of Mark Coombs substantial existing shareholding, and taking account of the requirements of the Takeover Code, the Remuneration Committee elected until 2012 to make Phantom Share awards to Mark Coombs, which have the same terms as Restricted Shares and Matching Shares but are settled in cash.
In respect of the years ending 30 June 2010, 30 June 2011, 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013, Mark Coombs chose to waive 30%, 20%, 10% and 10% respectively of any element of his potential variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself.
The Number of shares at 30 June 2014, Granted during year and Number of shares at 30 June 2015 figures are shown excluding the amounts waived.
On the vesting release date any shares waived to charity will vest to them to the extent that any relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
Key RS Restricted Shares RMS Restricted Matching Shares BS Bonus Shares NDRS Restricted Shares awarded whilst not a Director MS Matching Shares NDBS Bonus Shares awarded whilst not a Director RBS Restricted Bonus Shares NDMS Matching Shares awarded whilst not a Director The Companys obligations under its employee share plans can be met by newly issued shares in the Company, or shares purchased in the market by the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
As detailed in the financial statements, the EBT continues to make market purchases of shares to satisfy awards.
The overall limits on new issuance operated under the existing share plans were established on the listing of the Company in 2006.
Under these agreed limits, the number of shares which may be issued in aggregate under employee share plans of the Company over any 10 year period following the date of the Companys Admission in 2006 is limited to 15% of the Companys issued share capital.
As at 30 June 2015, the Company had 5.24% of the Companys issued share capital outstanding under employee share plans to its staff.
All of these awards have been satisfied by the acquisition of shares in the market, thus none of the Companys obligations under its employee share plans have been met by newly issued shares.
Defined benefit pension entitlements None of the Directors has any entitlements under Company defined benefit pension plans.
62 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Directors shareholding and share interests Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
Although there is no formal shareholding requirement, the Executive Directors have substantial interests in Company shares.
Figure 11 Share interests of Directors and connected persons at 30 June 2015 audited information Outstanding Restricted and Outstanding voluntarily deferred 1 Beneficially owned Matching Share awards Bonus Shareawards Total interest in shares Executive Directors 2 Mark Coombs 286,574,200 3,531,941 1,513,689 291,619,830 3 Tom Shippey 130,000 717,061 214,835 1,061,896 Non-executive Directors The Hon.
Outstanding Restricted Shares and Matching Shares are subject to performance conditions.
Restricted and Matching Share awards made to Tom Shippey prior to his appointment as a Director are not subject to performance conditions.
Save as described above there have been no other changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June and 7 September 2015.
The Directors are permitted to hold their shares as collateral for loans with the express permission of the Board.
Tom Shippey and his connected persons have granted security over 130,000 Ashmore Group plc shares as part of a pre-existing credit facility.
The table shows the number of shares held by Melda Donnelly at the point she retired from the Board on 30 October 2014.
The table shows the number of shares held by Charles Outhwaite at the point he retired from the Board on 22 May 2015.
Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer Figure 12 Comparison of percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus 2014 to 2015 % change Chief Executive base salary 0% Relevant comparator employees base salary 2% Chief Executive taxable benefits -21% Relevant comparator employees average taxable benefits -21% Chief Executive annual bonus N A Relevant comparator employees average annual bonus 36% Figure 12 compares the percentage change from 2014 to 2015 in remuneration elements for the Chief Executive with the average year-on-year change across relevant comparator employees as a whole.
Relevant employees are full-time employees of Ashmore Group who have been employed throughout the full performance year.
Figures do not include amounts of cash waived to charity.
The Chief Executive did not receive a bonus during the prior period.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Annual report on remuneration continued Performance chart Figure 13 shows the Companys TSR performance with dividends reinvested against the performance of the relevant indices for the last six years.
Each point at a financial year end is calculated using an average total shareholder return value over the month of June i. e. 1 June to 30 June inclusive.
As the chart indicates, 100 invested in Ashmore on 30 June 2009 was worth 199.50 six years later, compared with 193.00 for the same investment in the FTSE 100 index, and 280.40 for the same investment in the FTSE 250 index.
Figure 13 Total return performance chart to 30 June 2015 Source: Thomson Reuters 300 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 30 Jun 2009 30 Jun 2010 30 Jun 2011 30 Jun 2012 30 Jun 2013 30 Jun 2014 30 Jun 2015 Ashmore Group FTSE 250 FTSE 100 Figure 14 shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the financial years shown in the TSR chart.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTI awards which vested based on performance in those years.
As there is no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
Figures do not include amounts of cash, voluntarily deferred Bonus Shares or Phantom Bonus Shares or dividend equivalents waived to charity.
Voluntarily deferred Bonus Shares or Phantom Bonus Shares which are waived to charity will result in a cash payment to the charity, on the vesting date, of a sum equivalent to the market value of the number of waived Bonus Shares or Phantom Bonus Shares vesting on that date.
During the restricted period the charity will receive any dividends or dividend equivalents associated with any waived Bonus or Phantom BonusShares awarded prior to 2013.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2015, Mark Coombs waived any eligibility for, and any right or expectation to receive a cash bonus of up to 435,000, which has been excluded from the figure in the table.
Mark Coombs variable compensation is made up of 60% cash bonus and 40% deferred Restricted Share or Phantom Restricted Share awards.
He may commute up to 50% of his cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of Bonus Share or Phantom Bonus Share awards which then attract an equivalent value in Matching Share or Phantom Matching Share awards.
All awards will be reported in the Directors Share and Phantom Share award tables in the year of grant.
Mark Coombs received dividend equivalents related to his Share or Phantom Share awards granted for years prior to 2013.
No performance-related Restricted and Matching or Phantom Share equivalent awards have vested during the periods shown.
The sums shown relate to dividends or dividend equivalents paid on Share or Phantom Shareawards.
Mark Coombs receives a cash allowance of equivalent value in lieu of pension contributions.
64 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Value of 100 invested on 30 June 2009 Governance Figure 15 shows the relative movement in profits, total staff costs External advisers and dividends to shareholders, year-on-year.
The Remuneration Committee received independent advice from New Bridge Street NBS consultants throughout the period from Figure 15 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015.
NBS abides by the Remuneration Relative importance of spend on pay Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective 2014 to 2015 Metric 2015 2014 % change and impartial advice.
NBS fees for the year ending 30 June 2015 Remuneration paid to or were 49,099.
The Company participates in the McLagan Partners receivable by all employees of the compensation survey from which relevant data is provided to the Group i. e. accounting cost 65.7 64.1 2% Remuneration Committee.
Neither of the above provide other services to the Company.
Average headcount 293 290 1% Distributions to shareholders Statement of shareholder voting dividends and or share buybacks 114.0 112.5 1% At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Policy received the following votes from shareholders: Statement on implementation of Remuneration Policy in the year commencing 1 July 2015 Figure 16 The Remuneration Committee intends to continue to apply broadly Shareholder voting Remuneration Policy the same metrics and weightings to annual variable remuneration 2014 AGM resolution in the year ending 30 June 2016. to approve the % of Remuneration Policy votes cast For long-term incentive awards Restricted Shares, Matching Shares Votes cast in favour 469,111,535 82.25% and their Phantom equivalents, the Remuneration Committee Votes cast against 101,266,631 17.75% intends to continue to apply the existing relative TSR performance Total votes cast 570,378,166 100.00% condition policy as used the previous year, subject to any changes to Abstentions 3,697,611 N A the peer group that may be necessary to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant.
In addition to At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received the this, three newperformance conditions will be introduced with the following votes from shareholders: aim of further aligning the remuneration of Executive Directors with Figure 17 shareholders.
These will relate to investment performance, assets Shareholder voting Remuneration Report under management and profitability.
Further details will be provided in the annual report for the year ending 30 June 2016.
2014 AGM resolution to approve the Directors Membership of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Report for % of the year ended 30 June 2014 votes cast The members of the Remuneration Committee are listed in the table Votes cast in favour 567,980,844 98.98% below.
All of these are independent Non-executive Directors, as defined under the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception Votes cast against 5,848,874 1.02% of the Company Chairman who was independent on his appointment.
Total votes cast 573,829,718 100.00% Abstentions 246,059 N A Remuneration Committee attendance Percentage of meetings Approval attended out of potential This Directors Remuneration report including both the Directors maximum Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on remuneration have Nick Land 100% been approved by the Board of Directors.
Michael Benson 100% Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Dame Anne Pringle DCMG 100% Charles Outhwaite 100% Simon Fraser Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Charles Outhwaite attended all Committee meetings prior to his resignation as a Director on 22 May 2015.
7September 2015 The Companys CEO attends the meeting by invitation and assists the Remuneration Committee in its deliberations, except when his personal remuneration is discussed.
No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
Other executives may be invited to attend as the Remuneration Committee requests.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65
