Directors remuneration report Aligning performance and remuneration Dear shareholder, on behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report DRR for the year ended 31 December 2015 After a thorough review of our The acquisition has improved our remuneration framework, we received positioning on both liquidity and capital.
strong levels of shareholder support for The synergies associated with the both our Policy Report and Annual Report acquisition are being realised ahead of on Remuneration at last years Annual schedule: a testament to the hard work General Meeting AGM.
undertaken by our management team on the integration.
It has provided unique growth opportunities for Aviva as we continue to pursue our strategic Committee Membership ambitions.
Member since: New Executive Director Patricia Cross, 01 12 2013 Chairman Andy Briggs, who had been Chief Michael Mire 14 05 2015 Executive Officer at FLG, was appointed to Key decisions on remuneration Bob Stein 06 03 2013 the Board of Aviva in April 2015 when he in respect of 2015 took on the role of CEO of the enlarged Sir Malcolm Williamson 14 05 2015 2015 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP UK Life business CEO UK Life.
Andy did Last year, in line with our Remuneration not receive an increase to his basic salary We believe that ongoing engagement Policy, we proposed awards of 350% of on appointment and his incentive awards with all relevant stakeholders is salary and 250% of salary to Mark Wilson, granted in respect of his employment with fundamental to ensure that our Group Chief Executive Officer Group Aviva in 2015 are in line with our Policy remuneration framework remains fit for CEO and Tom Stoddard, Chief Financial and pro-rated to reflect his period of purpose, and delivers outcomes that are Officer CFO, respectively, under the LTIP.
appropriate in the context of Group and Following feedback from a individual performance.
We are committed shareholder proxy agency to being open and transparent on all on the proposed awards, remuneration related decisions, and the Group CEO and CFO therefore we continued to engage with decided not to accept We will continue to focus on shareholders and other key stakeholders these awards.
the alignment between the following last years AGM.
remuneration framework and Consequently, the Key 2015 performance Committee approved new the Groups strategy highlights and acquisition LTIP awards to be granted of Friends Life Group FLG at 300% of salary to the 2015 was a milestone year for the Group Group CEO and 225% of Patricia Cross and saw a renewed focus on the salary to the CFO, which Chairman, Remuneration Committee transformation of the business, securing both individuals accepted.
the balance sheet and growing Andy had long-term awards granted by profitability.
Our Solvency II SII cover ratio FLG which vested as a result of the is 180%, operating profit grew 20% to Adjustment of LTIP targets acquisition, for services provided to FLG.
2,665 million, value of new business Following the acquisition of FLG in April th These awards were disclosed in FLGs increased for the 12 consecutive quarter, 2015, we considered our LTIP targets for acquisition documents and the payments and the combined operating ratio the outstanding 2013 and 2014 awards were approved by the FLG Remuneration improved 1.1 points to 94.6%.
The 50% based on Relative Total Shareholder Committee on acquisition.
Details of these improved financial strength, and sustained Return TSR : 50% based on Return on awards can be found on page 111. operational performance underpin the Equity ROE.
After a process of 15% increase in our final dividend.
shareholder consultation, we decided to 102 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance re-calibrate them to reflect the enlarged 2013 LTIP Committee priorities for 2016 Group and its increased capital base.
Given the dates of appointment of our The key priority of the Committee in 2016 EDs, only the Group CEO will receive is to direct the ongoing development of a Shareholders indicated to us that they shares under this award.
Awards under remuneration system which is fair to were satisfied with the approach of the 2013 LTIP vested subject to Avivas executives and aligned to long term, making mechanical adjustments to the ROE and relative TSR performance over sustainable growth in shareholder ROE targets, so they would be no less the period 1 January 2013 to value.
In light of a heightened challenging than those that were originally 31 December 2015.
53.0% of the international competition for talent, the set.
Full details can be found Committee faces significant challenge in on page 109. this endeavour.
Shareholders were also comfortable with the approach taken to adjusting the Application of Policy in 2016 Other priorities will include monitoring comparator group used for assessing No significant changes are proposed for compliance with evolving regulatory relative TSR performance to take into the 2016 financial year, and we continue requirements, including SII provisions.
account the fide-listing of FLG.
These to take a market leading approach in adjustments to targets are as described on terms of the time period over which pay is Our core values provide a compelling page 109. earned and delivered.
foundation on which to continue to shape our Policy.
We continue to: 2015 Bonus The EDs salaries have been reviewed by The annual bonus awards made to the the Committee and an increase of 3% will Care More - we care about how our Executive Directors EDs reflect a strong be made to the Group CEOs salary executives feel about our year for the Company under their effective from 1 April 2016: his first remuneration framework just as we leadership.
The Group exceeded target increase since he was appointed in 2013. care about how our broad community performance overall for the financial Increases of 3% will also be applied to the of stakeholders view this framework measures operating profit, cash salaries of the CFO and CEO UK Life.
All Kill Complexity - we have a constant remittances, value of new business VNB, increases are in line with the general task to remove undue complexity from economic surplus generation, operating increase applied across our UK-based our remuneration systems, not easy expense ratio and combined operating employee population.
given continuing disclosure changes ratio COR.
The continued progress of and regulatory requirements the integration with FLG has strengthened 2016 Bonus Never Rest - because our competitors and stabilised our position in terms of In line with our stated Group strategy, our won't and all of our stakeholders capital and liquidity.
progress in developing our digital require our constant engagement: and capabilities and interfaces will be Create Legacy - perhaps this is the Performance against non-financial foundational for our future profit growth, value that resonates the most strongly measures customer, employee and risk and our ambition to provide a world class with the Remuneration has also been taken into account, together customer experience.
We want to create a with personal performance.
Further the annual bonus scorecard will therefore Remuneration ecosystem that we can information is provided on page 108. be linked to our progress on the expansion all be proud of, the Board, the of a digital interface with our customers.
executives, our staff and all of our When determining bonus payouts, the The remaining 75% will continue to be stakeholders.
Committee also took into account the based on the financial performance of the wider performance of Aviva, together with Group as set out on pages 117.
NonWe are committed to maintaining an open the experience of our shareholders to financial modifiers, risk, conduct and and transparent dialogue with our ensure that the payments are a fair individual performance will also be shareholders.
The objective of this report is reflection of performance achieved during considered when determining payments.
to communicate our approach to pay in light the year.
of the Groups performance and regulatory 2016 LTIP landscape.
As always, I welcome any The Committee awarded a bonus of 91% In 2016, awards under the LTIP will be comments that you may have and look of maximum to the Group CEO in light of 300% of salary for the Group CEO and forward to seeing shareholders at the 2016 the strong financial performance and the 225% of salary for the Group CFO and AGM.
progress on our strategic objectives CEO UK Life.
These awards will vest achieved during the year.
The CFO subject to Avivas ROE and relative TSR received an award of 87% of maximum performance over a three year period to and the CEO UK Life received a pro-rated 31 December 2018.
Any shares vesting award of 90% of maximum.
The based on long-term performance to this Patricia Cross Committee recognised the critical role that date will be subject to an additional two Chairman, Remuneration Committee all three EDs have played in the integration year holding period.
The integration is ahead of schedule and at the end of 2015, we have Committee changes during the delivered 168 million of run-rate savings year and we expect to achieve the targeted Gay Huey Evans stepped down from the 225 million of synergies one year earlier Board and the Committee in 2015 and I than our original plan.
would like to thank Gay for her hard work and commitment since joining the To provide longer-term alignment with our Committee in 2011.
I would also like to shareholders, two-thirds of these awards take this opportunity to welcome Michael will be deferred into shares for three years Mire and Sir Malcolm Williamson to the under the Annual Bonus Plan ABP.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 103
