Governance Annual Report on Remuneration This section of the report sets out how Deloitte LLP were paid fees totalling the review recognised there had been Aviva has implemented its Remuneration 112,500, during the year for the a focus on the alignment of Policy for EDs during the course of 2015, provision of advice to the Committee on remuneration and risk, with the and how the approved Policy will be senior executive remuneration matters, introduction of more formal input implemented for 2016.
This is in and views on shareholder perspectives.
In addition, the accordance with the requirements of the Fees were charged on a time plus implementation of SII across the Group Large & Medium Sized Companies and expenses basis.
has contributed to an improvement in Groups Accounts and Reports how risk is taken into account in Regulations 2008 as amended.
The Committee reflects on the quality of remuneration related decisions, and the advice provided and whether it that this would continue to be a key The full terms of reference for the properly addresses the issues under area of focus for the Committee in Committee can be found on the consideration as part of its normal 2016.
The Committee is satisfied www.
com terms-of-reference and that the advice received during the year are also available from the Group General was objective and independent.
Committee performance and Consideration by the effectiveness Committee of matters relating In March 2015, the Committee undertook to directors remuneration an annual review of its performance and The Committee met five times during effectiveness which concluded that: overall 2015.
Details of attendance at Committee the Committee was effective in carrying meetings are shown on page 80. out its duties with the areas of development identified being consistent The Group Chairman attended all with the outcomes of the Board evaluation meetings of the Committee.
The Group process, as set out earlier in the report.
General Counsel and Company Secretary The 2015 review was carried out by acted as secretary to the Committee.
The Independent Board Evaluation as Chairman of the Committee reported to described on page 80. subsequent meetings of the Board on the Committees work and the Board received In addition, the effectiveness review a copy of the agenda and the minutes of highlighted some areas for further each meeting of the Committee.
consideration by the Committee: there should be an on-going focus on The Committee received assistance in the link between the remuneration considering executive remuneration from framework and the strategic objectives the Group Chairman, the Group CEO, the of the Group.
This includes taking into Group Chief People Officer, the Group account non-financial and strategic Reward Director, the Chief Accounting measures of performance, as well as Officer, the Chief Capital & Investments financial measures, to ensure that the Officer, the CEO Aviva Investors, the right culture and behaviours are Remuneration Committee Chairman of encouraged.
Conduct and risk Aviva Investors and the Chief Audit outcomes are both key considerations Officer.
These people attended meetings in the assessment of performance and by invitation during the year.
No person the determination of bonus outcomes.
was present during any discussion relating A formal process for making risk to their own remuneration.
adjustments at individual and business unit level was implemented for the During the year, the Committee received 2015 annual bonus advice on executive remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP who were appointed by in line with recent comments made in the Committee.
They are a member of the the external environment, it is Remuneration Consultants Group and recognised that simplicity is favoured adhere to its Code of Conduct.
The Group to ensure that there is sufficient line of received advice on remuneration matters, sight between performance and taxation and other consulting services remuneration within the Group including advice in relation to SII during the year.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 105 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 105
