Directors remuneration report continued Directors Remuneration Policy This section sets out Avivas remuneration Policy for directors, in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as amended and the Large & Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
This Policy was approved by shareholders at Avivas 2015 AGM, held on 29 April 2015.
We have included the Policy below, but have updated the scenario charts and details of our Directors dates of appointment.
The full Policy, as approved by shareholders, can be found on the Aviva plc website.
Alignment of Group strategy with executive remuneration The Committee considers alignment between Group strategy and the remuneration of its EDs is critical.
Our Remuneration Policy provides market competitive remuneration, and incentivises EDs to achieve both the annual business plan and the longer-term strategic objectives of the Group.
Significant levels of deferral and an aggregate shareholding requirement align EDs interests with those of shareholders and aid retention of key personnel.
As well as rewarding the achievement of objectives, variable remuneration can be zero if performance thresholds are not met.
Table 18 below provides an overview of our Remuneration Policy for EDs.
For an overview of the Remuneration Policy for NEDs see table 20.
18 Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors overview Purpose and link to Operation and recovery provisions Element strategy if applicable Maximum opportunity Performance measures Basic salary To provide core Annual review, with changes normally taking Current basic salaries are Any movement in basic market related pay effect from 1 April each year.
The review is disclosed on page 104. salary takes account of to attract and informed by: performance of the There is no maximum increase retain the required individual and the Relevant pay data including market within the Policy.
practice among relevant FTSE listed basic salary increases take companies of comparable size to Aviva in account of the average basic terms of market capitalisation, large salary increase awarded to UK European and global insurers: and UK employees.
Different levels of financial services companies increase may be agreed in certain circumstances at Levels of increase for the broader UK the Committees discretion, employee population such as: Individual and business performance An increase in job scope and responsibility Development of the individual in the role A significant increase in the size, value or complexity of the Group Annual bonus To incentivise EDs to Awards are based on performance in the year.
Maximum bonus opportunity Performance is assessed achieve the annual Targets are set annually and pay-out levels are for the Group CEO is 200% of against a range of business plan.
determined by the Committee based on basic salary with 100% of basic relevant financial, performance against those targets.
salary payable for performance employee, customer and To reward EDs who in line with target.
risk targets designed to achieve the Two-thirds of any bonus awarded is deferred incentivise the Companys strategic into shares which vest after three years.
Maximum bonus opportunity achievement of our objectives and for other EDs is 150% of basic Additional shares are awarded at vesting in lieu strategy, as well as demonstrate the salary with 100% of basic of dividends paid on the deferred shares.
individual strategic Aviva values and salary payable for performance objectives as set by the behaviours.
Cash and deferred awards are subject to malus in line with target.
Details of when these may be Deferral provides Threshold performance would financial performance is applied are set out in the notes below.
alignment with result in a bonus payment of no the major factor in shareholder The Committee retains discretion to amend more than 25% of basic salary.
considering overall interests and annual bonus pay-outs for a range of factors, expenditure on bonuses, Performance below threshold aids retention of including financial, market and other performance against would result in no bonus key personnel.
The Committee will exercise its non-financial measures being paid.
discretion to reduce otherwise unreasonable including behaviours in reward outcomes.
If extraordinary line with our values circumstances were to arise where the will also be taken Committee felt an adjustment upwards is into consideration.
warranted, it would consult with major stakeholders before making any adjustment.
Any exceptional adjustment would not exceed the stated maximum.
118 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 18 Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors overview Purpose and link to Operation and recovery provisions Element strategy if applicable Maximum opportunity Performance measures Long-term To motivate EDs to Shares are awarded which vest dependent on The plan rules allow for awards Currently, performance incentive achieve the the achievement of performance conditions to be made up to a maximum targets over three plan Companys longerover a three year period.
Additional shares are of 350% of basic salary.
years are: term objectives, to awarded at vesting in lieu of dividends on any Threshold performance would 50% vest based on align EDs interests shares which vest.
result in a vesting level of 20% targets for absolute with those of Shares are typically subject to a two year of maximum.
Return on Equity shareholders and to holding period after vesting, creating a total of ROE performance aid the retention of Performance below threshold five years between the award being granted, 50% vest based on key personnel.
on both targets would result in and the first opportunity to sell.
relative Total the award lapsing in its entirety.
Shareholder Return Awards are subject to malus and clawback.
TSR against a Details of when these may be applied are set comparator group out in the notes below.
Actual targets for ROE The Committee has discretion to amend vesting and the appropriate TSR levels to prevent unreasonable outcomes, comparator group are which it may use taking into account a range of agreed by the factors, including the management of risk and Committee annually and good governance and, in all cases, the disclosed in the annual experience of shareholders.
Pension To give a market EDs are eligible to participate in a defined If suitable employee N A competitive level of contribution plan up to the annual limit.
Any contributions are made, provision for postamounts above the annual or lifetime limits are employer contributes 28% of retirement income.
basic salary into pension or as cash as applicable.
Benefits To provide EDs with Benefits are provided on a market related basis.
Set at a level which the N A a suitable but The Company reserves the right to deliver Committee considers reasonable package benefits to EDs depending on their individual appropriate against comparable of benefits as part circumstances, which may include a cash car roles in companies of a similar of a competitive allowance, life insurance and private medical size and complexity to provide remuneration insurance.
In the case of non-UK executives, the a reasonable level of benefit.
This Committee may consider additional allowances Costs would normally be involves both core in line with standard relevant market practice.
limited to providing a cash car executive benefits, EDs employed under UK contracts are eligible to allowance, private medical and the opportunity participate in any HMRC approved all employee insurance, life insurance, and to participate in share plans operated by the Company on the reasonable travel benefits, flexible benefits same basis as other eligible employees.
including the tax cost where programmes applicable.
In addition, there offered by the may be one-off or exceptional Company via salary items on a case by case basis, sacrifice.
which would be disclosed in This enables us to the DRR.
attract and retain the right level of talent necessary to deliver the Companys strategy.
Relocation To assist with Employees who are relocated or reassigned Dependent on location and family N A and mobility mobility across the from one location to another receive relevant size, benefits are market related Group to ensure the benefits to assist them and their dependants and time bound.
They are not appropriate talent is in moving home and settling in to the compensation for performing the available to execute new location.
role but to defray costs of a strategy locally.
relocation or residence outside the home country.
The Committee would pay no more than it judged reasonably necessary, in the light of all applicable circumstances.
Shareholding To align EDs A requirement to build a shareholding in the N A N A requirement interests with those Company equivalent to 300% of basic salary of shareholders.
for the Group CEO and 150% of basic salary for other EDs.
This shareholding is normally to be built up over a period not exceeding 5 years subject to the Committees discretion where personal circumstances dictate.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 119 Directors remuneration report continued Notes to the table: Performance measures For the annual bonus, performance measures are chosen to align to the Groups KPIs and include financial, risk, employee and customer measures.
Achievement against individual strategic objectives is also taken into account.
LTIP performance measures are chosen to provide an indication of both absolute and relative return generated for shareholders.
In terms of target setting, a number of reference points are taken into account each year including, but not limited to, the Groups business plan and external market expectations of the Company.
Maximum payouts require exceptional performance that significantly exceeds performance targets or expected performance, under both the annual bonus and LTIP.
Malus and Clawback The circumstances when malus and clawback may apply include but are not limited to where the Committee considers that the employee concerned has been involved in or partially or wholly responsible for: A materially adverse misstatement of the Companys financial statements, or a misleading representation of performance: or A significant failure of risk management and or controls: or A scenario or event which causes material reputational damage to the Company: or Misconduct which, in the opinion of the Committee, ought to result in the complete or partial lapse of an award The clawback period runs for two years from the date of vesting or from the date of payment in the case of annual bonus awards.
Clawback was introduced in 2015 so applies to the annual bonus from 2015 paid March 2016 and the LTIP awards granted in 2015 and any future awards.
Discretions The discretions the Committee has in relation to the operation of the ABP and LTIP are set out in the plan rules.
These include but are not limited to the ability to set additional conditions and the discretion to change or waive those conditions in exceptional circumstances.
In relation to the LTIP, in accordance with its terms, the Committee has discretion in relation to vesting and in exceptional circumstances to waive or change a performance condition if anything happens which causes the Committee reasonably to consider it appropriate to do so.
Any use of the discretions will be disclosed, where relevant, in the annual report and, where appropriate be subject to consultation with Avivas shareholders.
Change in control In the event of a change in control, unless a new award is granted in exchange for an existing award, or if there is a significant corporate event like a demerger, awards under the LTIP would normally vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied as at the date of the change in control, and unless the Committee decides otherwise, would be pro-rated to reflect the time between the start of the performance period and the change in control.
Awards under the ABP would normally vest on the date of the change in control and may vest if there is a significant corporate event.
Consistency of executive Remuneration Policy across the Group The Remuneration Policy for our EDs is designed as part of the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group.
Remuneration arrangements for employees below the EDs take account of the seniority and nature of the role, individual performance and local market practice.
The components and levels of remuneration for different employees may therefore differ from the Policy for EDs.
Any such elements are reviewed against market practice and approved in line with internal guidelines and frameworks.
Differentiation in reward outcomes based on performance and behaviour that is consistent with the Aviva values is a feature of how Aviva operates its annual bonus plan for its senior leaders and managers globally.
A disciplined approach is taken to moderation across the Company in order to recognise and reward the key contributors.
The allocation of LTIP awards also involves strong differentiation, with expected contribution and ability to collaborate effectively in implementation of the strategy driving award levels.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Approach to recruitment remuneration On hiring a new ED, the Committee would align the proposed remuneration package with our Remuneration Policy.
In determining the actual remuneration for a new ED, the Committee would consider the package in totality, taking into account elements such as the likely contribution of the individual, local market benchmarks, remuneration practice, and the existing remuneration of other senior executives.
The Committee would ensure any arrangements agreed would be in the best interests of Aviva and its shareholders.
It would seek not to pay more than necessary to secure the right candidate.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee would take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which it was paid e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of awards.
The Committee considers that a buyout award is a significant investment in human capital by Aviva, and any buyout decision will involve careful consideration of the contribution that is expected from the individual.
Buyout awards would be awarded on a like for like basis compared to remuneration being forfeited, and would be capped to reflect the value being forfeited.
120 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance The maximum level of variable pay which could be awarded to a new ED, excluding any buyouts, would be in line with the Policy set out above and would therefore be no more than 550% of basic salary for the Group CEO 200% of basic salary annual bonus opportunity and 350% of basic salary as the face value of a LTIP grant and 500% of basic salary for other EDs 150% of basic salary annual bonus opportunity and 350% of basic salary as the face value of a LTIP grant.
All other elements of remuneration will also be in line with the Policy set out above.
Should the Company have any prior commitments outside of this Policy in respect of an employee promoted internally to an ED position, the Committee may continue to honour these for a period of time.
Where an ED is appointed from within the organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an ED is appointed following Avivas acquisition of, or merger with, another company, legacy terms and conditions may be honoured.
On hiring a new NED, the Committee would align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy for NEDs, outlined in table 20, including fees and travel benefits.
Illustration of the Policy The charts below illustrate how much EDs could earn under different performance scenarios in one financial year: Minimum basic salary, pension or cash in lieu of pension and benefits, no bonus and no vesting of the LTIP Target basic salary, pension or cash in lieu of pension, benefits, and: A bonus of 100% and an LTIP of 300% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at 50% of maximum for the Group CEO: A bonus of 100% and an LTIP of 225% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at 50% of maximum for the CFO: and A bonus of 100% and an LTIP of 225% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at 50% of maximum for the CEO UK Life.
Maximum basic salary, pension or cash in lieu of pension, benefits, and: A bonus of 200% and an LTIP of 300% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at maximum for the Group CEO: A bonus of 150% and an LTIP of 225% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at maximum for the CFO: and A bonus of 150% and an LTIP of 225% of basic salary with notional LTIP vesting at maximum for the CEO UK Life.
Mark Wilson Tom Stoddard Andy Briggs Potential earnings by pay element Potential earnings by pay element Potential earnings by pay element Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP m 7 6,404 47% 6 5 3,881 4 3,623 3,547 39% 44% 44% 32% 3 2,465 2,417 32% 26% 32% 2 30% 30% 1,357 29% 29% 100% 35% 21% 940 950 1 100% 39% 26% 100% 39% 26% 0 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 2016 Target Maximum Target Maximum Target Maximum Minimum Minimum Minimum Notes to the charts Fixed pay consists of basic salary, pension as described in table 18, and estimated value of benefits provided under the Remuneration Policy, excluding any one offs.
This therefore excludes the relocation assistance for Tom, in connection with his relocation to the UK.
Actual figures may vary in future years.
The value of the LTIP and deferred element of the annual bonus assumes a constant share price and does not include additional shares awarded in lieu of dividends, that may have been accrued during the vesting period.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 121 Directors remuneration report continued Employment contracts and letters of appointment ED employment contracts and NED letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal hours of business, and at the place of the Companys 2016 AGM from 10.45am on 4 May 2016 until the close of the meeting.
The key employment terms and conditions of the current EDs, and those who served during the year, as stipulated in their employment contracts, are set out in the table 19 below.
19 Executive Directors conditions of employment Provision Policy Notice period By the ED 6 months.
By the Company 12 months, rolling.
No notice or payment in lieu of notice to be paid where the Company terminates for cause.
Termination payment Pay in lieu of notice up to a maximum of 12 months basic salary.
Any payment is subject to phasing and mitigation requirements.
An ED would be expected to mitigate the loss of office by seeking alternative employment.
Any payments in lieu of notice would be reduced, potentially to zero, by any salary received from such employment.
Remuneration and benefits The operation of the annual bonus and LTIP is at the Companys discretion.
Expenses Reimbursement of expenses reasonably incurred in accordance with their duties.
Car allowance A cash car allowance is received, as varied from time to time.
Holiday entitlement 30 working days plus public holidays.
Private medical insurance Private medical insurance is provided for the ED and their family.
The ED can choose to opt out of this benefit or take a lower level of cover.
However, no payments are made in lieu of reduced or no cover.
Other benefits Other benefits include private medical insurance and participation in the Companys staff pension scheme.
Sickness 100% of basic salary for 52 weeks, and 75% thereafter for a further 52 weeks.
Non-compete During employment and for six months after leaving less any period of garden leave without the prior written consent of the Company.
Contract dates Director: Date current contract commenced: Mark Wilson 1 January 2013 Tom Stoddard 28 April 2014 Andy Briggs 13 April 2015 Policy on payment for loss of office There are no pre-determined ED special provisions for compensation for loss of office.
The Committee has the ability to exercise its discretion on the final amount actually paid.
Any compensation would be based on basic salary, pension entitlement and other contractual benefits during the notice period, or a payment made in lieu of notice, depending on whether the notice is worked.
Where notice of termination of a contract is given, payments to the ED would continue for the period worked during the notice period.
Alternatively, the contract may be terminated and phased monthly payments made in lieu of notice for, or for the balance of, the 12 months notice period.
During this period, EDs would be expected to mitigate their loss by seeking alternative employment.
Payments in lieu of notice would be reduced by the salary received from any alternative employment, potentially to zero.
The Company would typically make a reasonable contribution towards an EDs legal fees in connection with advice on the terms of their departure.
There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus for the year in which loss of office occurs.
The Committee may determine that an ED may receive a pro rata bonus in respect of the period of employment during the year loss of office occurs based on an assessment of performance.
Where an ED leaves the Company by reason of death, disability or ill health, or any other reason determined by the Committee, there may be a payment of a pro rata bonus for the relevant year at the discretion of the Committee.
The treatment of leavers under our ABP and LTIP is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
Good leaver status under these plans would be granted in the event of, for example, the death of an ED, or their departure on ill health grounds.
Good leaver status for other leaving reasons is at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account the circumstances of the individuals departure, but would typically include planned retirement.
In circumstances where good leaver status has been granted, awards may still be subject to malus and clawback in the event that inappropriate conduct of the ED is subsequently discovered post departure.
If good leaver status is not granted, all outstanding awards will lapse.
122 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance In the case of LTIPs, where the Committee determines EDs to be good leavers, vesting is normally based on the extent to which performance conditions have been met at the end of the relevant performance period, and the proportion of the award that vests is pro-rated for the time from the date of grant to final date of service unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Any decision not to apply this would only be made in exceptional circumstances, and would be fully disclosed.
It is not the practice to allow such treatment.
Consideration of wider employee pay and shareholder views When determining the Remuneration Policy and arrangements for our EDs, the Committee considers: Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group to ensure that pay structures are suitably aligned and that levels of remuneration remain appropriate.
The Committee reviews levels of basic salary increases for other employees and executives based in the UK.
It reviews changes in overall bonus pool funding and long-term incentive grants.
The Committee does not directly consult with employees on pay issues but it does consider feedback from sources including the employee opinion survey.
The Committee also takes into account information provided by the people function and external advisers Its ongoing dialogue with shareholders.
It seeks shareholder views and takes them into account when any significant changes are being proposed to remuneration arrangements and when formulating and implementing Remuneration Policy.
For example, during 2014 and continuing in 2015, the Committee has had detailed engagement with our largest shareholders to discuss amendments to targets for existing LTIP awards and 2015 annual bonus plan following the acquisition of FLG Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out details of our Remuneration Policy for NEDs.
20 Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors overview Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Chairman To attract individuals NEDs receive a basic annual fee in respect of The Companys Articles of N A and NEDs with the required their Board duties.
Further fees are paid for Association provide that the fees range of skills and membership and, where appropriate, total aggregate remuneration experience to serve as chairmanship of Board committees.
paid to the Chairman of the a Chairman and as a Company and NEDs will be The Chairman receives a fixed annual fee.
determined by the Board within Fees are reviewed annually taking into the limits set by shareholders account market data and trends and the and detailed in the Companys scope of specific Board duties.
The Chairman and NEDs do not participate in any incentive or performance plans or pension arrangements and do not receive an expense allowance.
NEDs are reimbursed for reasonable expenses, and any tax arising on those expenses is settled directly by Aviva.
To the extent that these are deemed taxable benefits, they will be included in the annual remuneration report, as required.
Chairmans To provide the The Chairman has access to a company car N A N A Travel Chairman with and driver for business use.
Where these are Benefits suitable travel deemed a taxable benefit, the tax is paid by arrangements for him the Company.
to discharge his duties effectively.
NED Travel and To reimburse NEDs Reasonable costs of travel and N A N A Accommodation for appropriate accommodation for business purposes are business travel and reimbursed to NEDs.
On the limited occasions accommodation, when it is appropriate for a NEDs spouse or including attending partner to attend, such as to a business Board and committee event, the Company will meet these costs.
The Company will meet any tax liabilities that may arise on such expenses.
Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 123 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015 | 123 Directors remuneration report continued The NEDs, including the Chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in table below.
21 Non-Executive Directors key terms of appointment Provision Policy Period In line with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all NEDs, including the Chairman, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Termination By the director or the Company at their discretion without compensation upon giving one months written notice for NEDs and three months written notice for the Chairman of the Company.
Expenses Reimbursement of travel and other expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of their duties.
Time commitment Each director must be able to devote sufficient time to the role in order to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively.
Date of last appointment Appointment end date in accordance 1 Appointment dates Director Committee appointments on letter of appointment with letter of appointment A N R Glyn Barker 3 May 2012 AGM 2016 A N R Patricia Cross 1 December 2013 AGM 2016 A N R Michael Hawker 3 May 2012 AGM 2016 G N R Beln Romana Garca 26 June 2015 AGM 2016 N Sir Adrian Montague 15 January 2013 AGM 2016 G N R R Michael Mire 12 September 2013 AGM 2016 A N R R Bob Stein 15 January 2013 AGM 2016 G N R Scott Wheway 3 May 2012 AGM 2016 A G N R Sir Malcolm Williamson 21 May 2015 AGM 2016 Key A R Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member G R Governance Committee member Risk Committee member N Nomination Committee member Denotes chair of committee Notes 1 The dates shown above reflect actual appointment dates where agreed following signature of the letter as all appointments are subject to regulatory approval.
Approval by the Board This Directors remuneration report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 9 March 2016.
Patricia Cross Chairman, Remuneration Committee 124 | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2015
