Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 45 Directors Remuneration Policy The principal changes are as follows: This section presents the new Increase in quantum and introduction of a deferral Directors Remuneration Policy element to the annual bonus.
The policy maximum for the Chief Executive Officer remains unchanged, while the the Policy for 2016 and beyond.
Chief Finance Officers maximum opportunity has been increased from 100% to 125% to align with the Chief The Policy will be put to a binding Executive Officer.
The Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of award levels under the Policy for 2016 vote at the 2016 AGM and will Creation of a new Strategic Leadership Plan SLP with become effective on 12 May 2016, higher quantum and more stretching targets, to replace the existing Performance Share Plan PSP.
The increased subject to approval from quantum level is described in the Annual Report on Remuneration shareholders.
Introduction of a two-year holding period post-vesting for awards under the SLP In addition, at the AGM we will be Expanded malus and clawback provisions on the SLP and the deferred bonus seeking shareholder approval to Increased shareholding requirement implement a new long-term plan The Committee reserves the right to make minor amendments to the Policy without shareholder approval for the Strategic Leadership Plan administrative reasons or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for a Director or and a Deferred Bonus Plan to allow a Group member.
the shares to be made available esure has also reviewed its disclosure policy to improve compliance with current shareholder expectations.
As a result, in accordance with the new Policy.
increased disclosure will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration in relation to payments under the annual Remuneration principles bonus from 2015 onwards.
The Group seeks to attract and retain the best talent for the benefit of the business and to align the interests of Executive Consideration of shareholder views Directors, senior management and employees with the The Committee carried out a shareholder consultation long-term interests of shareholders and other stakeholders.
on the proposed new Policy in early 2016.
Shareholders were largely supportive and their feedback was carefully considered To that end, the Groups remuneration policies aim to provide when finalising the details of the Policy.
The Committee will appropriate reward for good performance without creating also consider any shareholder feedback received in relation incentives that will encourage excessive risk taking.
In setting to the AGM at the next scheduled meeting after the AGM the Policy, the Committee has regard to the provisions within and any other feedback received at any other time as part the FCAs Remuneration Code even though the Group is of the review of Executive Directors remuneration and when not required to comply with that code and to the anticipated implementing the Policy.
In particular, the Committee considers carefully the link between remuneration and risk Consideration of employment conditions and there is cross-membership of the Risk Committee elsewhere in the Group and the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee regularly reviews remuneration trends across the Group, including the differential between the total Principal changes to the Policy remuneration at the highest and lowest levels of employees Following a detailed review, several changes have been within the Group, and these were taken into account when made to the Policy this year.
The previous remuneration policy setting the Policy.
However, there has been no formal came into effect in May 2014 and was the first policy put consultation with employees in determining the Policy.
to shareholders under the current regulations since esures listing on the Main Market.
Since 2014 the strategy has been developed which includes the expansion of footprint in Motor and Home and the acquisition of the other 50% of Gocompare.
com which has enabled strategic control of that business.
Given the change in the size and scope of the business, and the opportunities for future growth brought about by these activities, the Committee agreed that the Policy should be updated both to ensure that Executive Directors are motivated to drive the Groups ambitious objectives and to align with latest best remuneration practices seen in the Financial Services industry.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 46 Directors Remuneration Report continued The table below summarises the key elements of the Policy.
Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Salary Takes account of individual skills, performance, Details of the current salaries for experience and responsibilities and pay the CEO and CFO are set out in the To pay Executive as well as internal relativities within the wider Annual Report on Remuneration.
Directors at a level employee population.
commensurate with the There is no prescribed maximum annual increase.
However, the size and scope Set with reference broadly to mid-market levels of their role and their and to remuneration generally within the Group Committee is guided by the and other appropriate comparator companies general increase for the broader contribution to the Group and appropriately of a similar size and complexity to the Group.
Normally reviewed annually with changes effective Larger increases may be awarded Set at a level that from 1 January.
where the Committee determines maintains an appropriate it appropriate to take into account balance between fixed a change in role and or responsibilities, and variable pay ensuring a significant change in the size, good risk management composition and or complexity and no undue emphasis of the Group, the increased experience on variable pay.
or performance in role of the Executive Director or where other exceptional circumstances exist.
Annual bonus The Committee sets the performance measures, The maximum bonus opportunity targets and the weighting between them annually under the Policy has been set at 125% Incentivises and to reflect the key priorities for the business for the of salary for the Executive Directors rewards annual delivery year ahead and may vary them from year to year.
of financial and All or a majority of the annual bonus will be weighted non-financial objectives.
No more than 25% of the to one or more financial measures set on a sliding maximum opportunity is payable scale basis.
Non-financial metrics, including delivery for threshold performance.
of strategic and personal objectives, up to a maximum of 40% of the total bonus may be set by the Committee if it determines it appropriate.
At least 30% of the annual bonus will be deferred into an award of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP each year, with the deferred portion vesting in equal thirds over a three-year period.
The portion to be deferred and the timeframe for deferred awards to be released may be amended, in particular if any such changes are required from a regulatory perspective.
The remaining portion of the bonus which is not deferred will be paid in cash.
Malus and clawback provisions apply see below.
Furthermore, the Committee has overriding discretion to scale back annual bonus payments in the event of, inter alia, risk or regulatory compliance issues and in the event that the level of bonus represents an excessive proportion of the Groups overall profit.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 47 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Strategic Leadership Awards normally vest subject to satisfaction of The maximum award limit, except for Plan SLP applicable performance conditions measured over recruitment awards see recruitment at least three years.
Typically, a holding period section, in respect of any financial To encourage and expected to be two years for awards made in 2016 year under the Policy is 300% of salary reward delivery of the will apply post-vesting, unless the Committee face value at date of grant being Groups longer-term determines otherwise.
the maximum under the plan rules.
The Committee may not decide to Performance conditions for 2016 awards are Aligns the interests grant at maximum levels each year.
based on absolute 75% and relative 25% TSR.
of Executive Directors The Committee may use alternative measures, 15% of the award vests for threshold with the interests of performance with 100% vesting for for example Earnings per Share, and weightings shareholders through for future awards if it deems this appropriate.
the use of share-based However, at least part of the total award will be awards.
determined by a share price-based metric.
The Committee has an overriding discretion to scale back vesting of the awards in certain events such as where the level of vesting represents an excessive proportion of the Groups overall profit, or where a significant one-off event which affects Group performance occurs during the SLP performance measurement period.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply see below.
Pension Pension contributions and or a cash allowance Maximum is 16% of salary.
of up to 16% of salary may be paid in respect Provided on a marketof each year.
competitive basis, aids retention and follows the general reward structure.
Encourages and assists with responsible provision for retirement.
Benefits Benefits include but are not limited to: There is no prescribed maximum value.
The cost of the benefits provision To provide marketFamily private healthcare: is reviewed by the Committee on competitive benefits.
Death in service life assurance: and To ensure well-being All employee share plans are subject Participation in HMRC all-employee share plans.
to maximum limits as set by HMRC.
To aid retention of our The Group may award additional benefits where best people.
the Committee considers it appropriate e. g. travel, accommodation and subsistence allowances where an Executive Director is asked to relocate.
Chairmans Chairman Fees are reviewed on an annual basis remuneration and any increases are typically in line The salary and any contractual benefits for the and Non-Executive with market levels.
Details of the Chairman are determined by the Committee.
current salary of the Chairman and the Director fees Non-Executive Directors fee levels for the Non-Executive To remunerate Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by Directors are set out in the Annual the Chairman and the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and Executive Directors are guided by There is no prescribed maximum in an appropriate way, market data for similar non-executive roles in other annual increase.
Total fees will not while enabling the companies of a similar size and complexity as well exceed the amount specified in the recruitment and retention as the experience and time commitment of its Groups Articles of Association of of high-calibre individuals.
Non-Executive Directors may also receive a transport, hotel and incidental expenses allowance for their duties for the Group in respect of which the Group may discharge any related tax liability.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 48 Directors Remuneration Report continued Legacy arrangements d have their performance conditions amended or substituted It is proposed that no further awards will be granted to if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider Executive Directors under the PSP, subject to shareholder an amended or substituted condition would be more approval of the SLP at the 2016 AGM: it is proposed it will appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy: and be replaced by the SLP.
Details of outstanding PSP awards e be adjusted in the event of a variation of the Companys are set out on page 54. share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration or any other event which may in the Committees opinion payments and payments for loss of office including exercising affect the current or future value of the Companys shares.
any discretions available to it in connection with such Malus and clawback provisions payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with Malus the right to reduce the value of unvested awards the Policy where the terms of the payment were agreed will apply to unvested awards under the DBP, PSP and SLP.
i before 13 May 2014 the date the Groups first Clawback will apply to vested awards under the DBP, SLP and shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy came PSP and the part of the annual bonus which is paid in cash.
into effect ii before the Policy came into effect, provided These provisions may be invoked at the Committees discretion that the terms of the payment were consistent with the at any time prior to a takeover of the Company and within shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy in force three years of the vesting of PSP awards and the payment of at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the cash bonuses and six years of the grant of DBP and SLP awards.
relevant individual was not a Director and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration The Committee has the discretion to invoke these provisions for the individual becoming a Director.
For these purposes in the following circumstances: payments includes the Committee satisfying awards where there is a material misstatement of any Group of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over members financial results, or an error in assessing shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time performance conditions applicable to PSP or SLP awards the award is granted.
or calculating the bonus to which a DBP award relates Notes to the Policy Table is discovered: Performance conditions where the Committee becomes aware of any misconduct TSR has been chosen as the most appropriate metric for on the part of the individual: and SLP awards made in 2016 as it is strongly aligned with the for DBP and SLP awards only, where a material failure Groups ambitious targets for delivering shareholder value.
of risk management by a Group member is identified, Stretching targets have been set for absolute TSR performance or in the event of serious reputational damage to a Group and these are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
member during the period commencing at the start of the The remainder of the TSR element is measured against performance period for SLP awards and the grant date for the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts and the DBP awards and ending on the sixth anniversary of the Company and therefore provides a good measure of relative grant date of the award.
stock market performance, with management only being rewarded for the delivery of exceptional relative levels Implementation of the Policy in 2016 of return.
A blend of these measures is considered to be A description of how the Committee intends to implement the a complementary mix of absolute and relative performance Policy in 2016 is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration and focuses on superior stock market returns, in line with on page 56. the Companys future strategy.
The Committee, in selecting performance measures and setting targets, ensures that Alignment with remuneration elsewhere in the Company there is a strong link between the strategies adopted for the Where appropriate, the Committee aims for as much business and the targets set for each SLP award and annual consistency as possible between the Policy for Executive bonus cycle.
Performance targets will be set annually prior Directors and the remuneration policy for employees across to awards being made with regard to the business strategy the Group as a whole.
For example, all employees including and economic and market environment at that time.
Executive Directors participate in similar pension and benefits arrangements, and all participate in an annual bonus plan Share-based awards or profit sharing plan.
Senior employees at Group Executive Share-based awards under the SLP, DBP and PSP may: and Operational Executive level participate in the SLP, which is considered appropriate as senior executives are more able a be made in the form of conditional share awards to influence the long-term strategic as opposed to operational of nil-cost options or equivalent instruments: success of the Group, as evidenced by long-term TSR b be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: performance.
The Company encourages and helps facilitate share ownership by all employees by offering participation c subject to any prevailing regulatory requirements, in the Companys Save As You Earn Plan.
incorporate the right to receive the value of any awards that would have been paid on the shares that vest under Illustrations of application of the Policy an award on such basis and over such period ending no The following chart provides an indication of the remuneration later than the date the individual first becomes entitled that each Executive Director might receive in accordance to have underlying shares delivered to him as the with the Policy for 2016 in respect of minimum fixed pay, Committee may determine: on-target and maximum performance.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 49 The following assumptions have been made in compiling the 2016 AGM allow for a one-off award to be made to these illustrations of remuneration: compensate the candidate for the loss of those awards with in the case of the SLP performance measures over such Fixed pay for all three scenarios is based on salary levels period as the Committee may determine.
These recruitment for 2016, the cost of supplying the benefits received for awards will not count towards limits referred to in the policy 2015 and the current pension policy applied to 2016 salary table.
For internal candidates, long-term incentive awards For illustrative purposes, on-target performance under granted in respect of the prior role would be allowed to vest the annual bonus at 50% of maximum and SLP is shown according to its original terms, or adjusted if appropriate at 35% of maximum to take into account the appointment.
Consistent with the Policy to be applied in 2016, the For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive maximum bonus opportunity is shown as 125% of salary Director, the fee would be set in accordance with the approved for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Finance Officer.
Policy in force at that time.
The length of service and notice The SLP grant level is 300% of salary for the Chief Executive periods shall be set at the discretion of the Committee, Officer and 250% of salary for the Chief Finance Officer taking into account market practice, corporate governance No assumptions are made as to share price growth and considerations and the particular candidate at that time.
dividend accrual, and these have been excluded from Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office the analysis.
The Companys policy is that service contracts do not have 000s a specific duration but may be terminated with 12 months 3,000 notice from the Company or the Executive Director.
2,840 41% 55% Under their letters of appointment, Non-Executive Directors 2,500 appointment is terminable by either party on three months written notice except where the Director is not reappointed 2,000 by shareholders, in which case termination is with immediate 1,750 effect.
The appointment letters for the Non-Executive Directors 1,490 51% 1,500 provide that no compensation is payable on termination, 37% other than for accrued fees and expenses.
23% 950 1,000 The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment 22% 33% 610 25% are available for inspection at the Groups registered office.
410 23% 500 41% 22% 100% 44% 24% 100% The obligations of the Group in respect of remuneration and 0 payments for loss of office when a Director leaves the Group Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum are set out on the next page.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Finance Officer Under their service contracts, the Executive Directors are Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives entitled to salary reviewed annually, pension contributions and benefits.
The Chairman is entitled to salary reviewed Approach to recruitment remuneration annually, private health cover and use of a driver for business The Committee will aim to set a new Executive Directors and a portion of personal travel.
The Company reserves remuneration package in line with the Policy approved by the right to settle any tax liability on these benefits on the shareholders.
New Executive Directors will participate in the Chairmans behalf.
These benefits may be paid during the annual bonus and the Strategic Leadership Plan on the same Directors notice period although the Director is required basis as existing Directors.
to seek alternative employment in this time.
In arriving at a total package and in considering quantum The service agreements of the Chairman and the Executive for each element of the package, the Committee will take Directors can be terminated by not less than 12 months notice into account the size and scope of the role, the skills and by either party.
The Company may put the Chairman and experience of a candidate, the market rate for a candidate the Executive Directors on gardening leave during their notice of that experience, as well as the importance of securing period, and can elect to terminate employment by making the preferred candidate.
For international candidates, a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to up to 12 months this may mean that consideration might be given to typical salary.
This payment may be made as either a lump sum on remuneration practices in the country of their previous termination or with an amount equivalent to up to six months employer.
In respect of an individuals recruitment, annual salary payable in a lump sum on termination and six months bonus potential will not exceed 125% of salary and SLP salary payable in monthly instalments from the seventh month awards will not exceed 300% of salary.
to the twelfth month, subject to offset against any earnings elsewhere during that six-month period in any new role.
Special consideration may be given in the event that long-term incentive awards accrued at a previous employer In addition, statutory entitlements or sums to settle are due to be forfeited on the candidates leaving that or compromise claims in connection with a termination company, in which case the Committee retains the discretion would be paid as necessary.
to grant further awards with vesting on a comparable basis to the likely vesting of the previous employers award.
The SLP rules submitted to shareholders for approval at esure Group Annual Report 2015 50 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee has a policy framework for payments for loss of office by an Executive Director, both in relation to the service contract and incentive pay, which is summarised below.
The recent performance of the Executive Director will be taken into account as a determining factor in the reason for the cessation and, therefore, the potential payments and scope for exercise of the Committees discretion are as set out below.
Category A Category B Category C Voluntary resignation Death or cessation by reason of ill health, disability, and termination injury, or where the individuals employing company for cause Agreed terms or business leaves the Group Base salary, Paid only until Paid for the notice Paid only until employment ceases or for notice period pension and employment period, subject subject to mitigation as described on page 49 depending benefits.
on the reason for cessation.
Treatment will normally Cessation during the financial year or after the financial year cash portion.
fall between A and C, end, but before payment date, may result in bonus being subject to the discretion payable pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year of the Committee, worked unless the Committee determines otherwise.
the terms of any Such bonuses may be settled wholly in cash.
termination agreement and the reasons for the Executive Directors departure.
Annual bonus Unvested Treatment will normally Awards will normally vest according to the usual schedule, deferred awards will lapse fall between A and C, unless the Committee determines that awards should vest portion.
on cessation subject to the discretion at the time the individual ceases employment.
of the Committee, normally vest early on the individuals death.
the terms of any termination agreement and the reasons for the Executive Directors departure.
Unvested Treatment will normally Awards will normally vest at the usual time subject awards lapse fall between A and C, to performance conditions being met.
on cessation subject to the discretion In the event of death of a participant, awards will typically of employment.
of the Committee, vest early.
In other exceptional circumstances, awards may the terms of any vest early subject to performance at the date of cessation termination agreement of employment.
and the reasons for the Executive Directors Awards are usually scaled back pro rata to reflect the shorter departure.
period of service but with the Committee having discretion not to scale back or to reduce the scale back.
Unvested Treatment will normally Awards will normally vest at the usual time unless the Committee awards will lapse fall between A and C, determines that awards should vest at the time the individual on cessation subject to the discretion ceases employment, taking into account the extent to which of employment.
of the Committee, the relevant performance conditions have been met.
Awards Vested awards the terms of any are usually scaled back pro rata to take account of the subject to a holding termination agreement proportion of the original performance period that has elapsed period will also and the reasons for when the individual leaves but with the Committee having lapse if the the Executive Directors discretion not to scale back or to reduce the scale back.
Vested awards subject to a holding period will be released from employment that holding period at the usual time, unless the Committee is terminated determines the holding period should end when the individual for cause.
In the case of the individuals death, awards will normally vest and be released from any holding periods at the time of death on the basis set out above.
Possible disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement services.
Takeovers If there is a takeover or winding-up of the Company, DBP, PSP and SLP awards will vest and be released from their holding periods early.
The extent to which PSP and SLP awards vest in these circumstances will be determined by the Committee, taking into account any relevant performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the original performance period that has elapsed at the time of the relevant event.
If the Company is affected by a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the Committees opinion, may affect the current or future price of the Companys shares, it may allow awards to vest and be released early on the same basis as for a takeover.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
In such circumstances, the Committee may also decide to pay a cash bonus in respect of the financial year in which the relevant event occurs in all circumstances subject to the maximum set out in the policy table.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 51 Annual Report on Remuneration This report sets out the remuneration paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors in 2015, along with the intended arrangements for 2016.
Together with the Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, it will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
The information that has been audited is separately identified as audited.
Remuneration payable for the financial year 2015 1 January 2015 31 December 2015 audited The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in relation to performance in 2015.
Salaries for the Executive Directors were reviewed during the year and were increased on 1 July.
Annual salaries before and after the increase have therefore been pro-rated in the table to reflect this.
More information is provided below.
a. Stuart Vanns salary was 484,500 on 1 January 2015 and then increased to 524,500 on 1 July 2015.
This increase reflects the increased size and complexity of his role post acquisition of the other 50% of Gocompare.
b. Darren Ogdens salary was 325,500 on 1 January 2015 and then increased to 355,500 on 1 July 2015.
The Executive Directors benefits include family private healthcare and death in service life assurance.
The Chairmans benefits include private healthcare and the use of a driver.
Value of the benefits for the Chairman after deducting qualifying business usage from the total cost of the benefit provided by the Company.
This includes 16% of salary in cash allowance in lieu of pension pension contribution.
This relates to the payment of the annual bonus for the years ending 31 December 2014 and 2015.
2015 bonus awards have been pro-rated to reflect the increase in salary received by the Executive Directors during the year.
No portion was deferred in either year.
There is one long-term incentive for 2013 with a performance period ending 31 December 2015: performance targets for this award were not met and as a result no part of the award will vest 7.
Martin Pike was appointed as the Remuneration Committee Chairman on 12 August 2015 8.
Dame Helen Alexander stepped down as a member of the Board on 13 May 2015.
Mike Evans became Remuneration Committee Chairman on 1 January 2015 and stepped down on 12 August 2015.
Shirley Garrood became the Senior Independent Director on 13 May 2015 and Deputy Chairman on 25 June 2015.
Shirley was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 30 July 2014 with effect from 1 October 2014.
Anthony Hobson stepped down as a member of the Board on 13 May 2015.
Angela Seymour-Jackson became a member of the Remuneration Committee on 13 October 2015. esure Group Annual Report 2015 52 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Salaries for Executive Directors audited scale of their roles, following the significant increase in size The Executive Directors salaries were reviewed in July 2015. and complexity of the business occasioned by the completion of the acquisition of Gocompare.
Both Executive Directors As a result of the review, the Chief Executive Officer and were instrumental in the acquisitions success.
Chief Finance Officer received increases of 8% and 9% respectively.
The Remuneration Committee agreed to award The table shows the salaries as at 1 January 2015 and these increases to reflect the increase in responsibility and 1 July 2015.
No increases will be made for January 2016.
Salary as at Salary as at Salary as at 1 January 2016 Increase 1 July 2015 Increase 1 January 2015 Stuart Vann 524,500 0% 524,500 8% 484,500 Darren Ogden 355,500 0% 355,500 9% 325,500 Performance outcomes for incentive plans was 92.3m which was between target and maximum In order to align disclosure levels more closely with investors and represented a solid set of financial results given market expectations and market best practice, from this year onward conditions.
Targets for 2015 will be published in the 2016 greater disclosure will be provided in this report around Directors Remuneration Report.
See below for an illustration annual bonus targets.
of how the performance outcome was calculated.
The Board still considers the 2015 financial targets to be Maximum 100.00% commercially sensitive, given the close link between performance Actual 52.73% targets and long-term strategy.
In addition, the Committee Target 50.00% believes disclosing targets would put esure at a competitive Threshold 25.00% disadvantage.
In the recent shareholder consultation on the new Remuneration Performance against personal and customer objectives Policy, many shareholders stated their expectation that The personal measures focus on the delivery of esures targets should be either disclosed in full for the performance strategic priorities and developing organisational capability year just finished, or that they should be disclosed the and enhancing succession plans.
The customer measures following year.
It is therefore the Committees intention focus on embedding a culture that places customers at the to disclose targets in relation to 2015 awards in the 2016 heart of esures business and is based on achievement against Directors Remuneration Report, when they are no longer a wide range of measures which are assessed monthly and expected to be commercially sensitive.
cover the broad range of customer outcomes.
Targets for 2014 awards have therefore been disclosed The scale for the personal and customer measures ranges further in this report.
from not achieved to fully achieved.
Following an independent Annual bonus for the year ending review by the Chief Risk Officer of the level of performance 31 December 2015 audited achieved, the Committee deemed that the CEO had achieved The annual bonus for 2015 was based 75% on a financial 92% of his objectives, which included Group succession measure and 25% on personal and customer measures.
planning, strategic growth opportunities and data management, and that the CFO had achieved 88% of his Performance against financial targets objectives, which included functional succession planning, The financial measure is assessed on the Groups trading dividend recommendations and maintenance of finance profit with reference to a sliding scale.
Targets for 2015 systems and processes.
were set in the context of the more challenging commercial environment than previous years.
Actual trading profit Therefore, the overall outcome for 2015 awards is set out below: Actual % of maximum achieved Actual % of salary achieved Executive Financial Non-financial Overall Financial Non-financial Overall Total award Stuart Vann 52.73% 92% 62.55% 29.66% 17.25% 46.91% 236,738 Darren Ogden 52.73% 88% 61.54% 19.77% 11% 30.77% 104,810 esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 53 Performance against 2015 targets Annual bonus for the year ending 31 December 2014 As stated in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report, financial targets for the annual bonus awards received Stuart 53% 47% in the year could not be disclosed owing to the commercial Vann sensitivity of the targets.
The Committee now considers these targets no longer to be sensitive and, as such, they have Darren 53% 47% been set out below.
Ogden The annual bonus for 2014 was based 75% on a financial measure and 25% on personal and customer measures.
The financial measure was assessed on the Groups trading Stuart 92% 8% Vann profit with reference to a sliding scale.
Actual trading profit was 115.4 million, which was between threshold and target performance and represented a solid set of financial results Darren 88% 12% given market conditions.
The outcome during 2014 is set Ogden out below: 0 20 40 60 80 100 Threshold Target Maximum Actual Achieved Max Profit 102.7m 128.4m 154.1m 115.4m Vesting 25% 50% 100% 37.25% The Remuneration Committee has discretion to scale back annual bonus payments in the event of, inter alia, risk or For details of the resulting to payouts to Executive Directors, regulatory compliance issues and also in the event that the please refer to the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report.
level of bonus represents, in the Committees view, an excessive proportion of the Groups overall profitability.
There were no Vesting of long-term incentive awards events in 2015 which led the Committee to determine that for performance periods ending during the a scale back of the annual bonus payment was appropriate.
year ending 31 December 2015 audited In addition, the Committee did not consider that the level Executive Directors hold awards under the 2013 PSP, the vesting of bonus represented an excessive proportion of the Groups of which is determined by a performance period ending overall profitability such that it should be scaled back.
Awards in 2015 were not subject to deferral arrangements Awards were subject to the performance conditions set and all bonuses were received in cash.
EPS performance was below threshold for the element will apply to the annual bonus.
This is described performance period, and relative TSR was below the comparator later in this report.
group median, therefore the 2013 awards lapsed in full.
PSP awards made during the year audited On 25 March 2015, the third awards under the PSP were made to the Executive Directors as follows.
Number of Basis of Share price shares over award on date which award Face value % of face value which Performance period Executive Type of award granted of grant was granted of award would vest at threshold determining vesting Stuart Vann Performance 175% 2.2402 378,481 847,873 25% of total award TSR EPS share of salary 8.33% under conditions TSR condition 3 years Darren Ogden Performance 150% 2.2402 217,949 488,249 1 3 of total award 1 January 2015 to share of salary 31 December 2017 16.66% under EPS condition 2 3 of total award The vesting of the awards is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions set by the Committee as set out below.
The awards will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Personal & customer Financial 25% 75% 54 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Outstanding PSP awards PSP post-vesting holding periods PSP awards granted up to and including 2015 are subject Under the PSP, Executive Directors have agreed to retain to an Earnings per Share EPS growth target for two-thirds any shares net of tax for a six-month period post-vesting.
of the award and a relative Total Shareholder Return TSR Sourcing of shares dilution limits target for one-third of the award.
In compliance with the Investment Association Earnings per share 2013 2014 2015 guidelines, the rules of the PSP, the Group Sharesave Plan growth targets Awards Awards Awards the Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan SIP Threshold 25% vesting 21% 15% 15% provide that, in any period of 10 calendar years, not more Stretch 100% vesting 39% 39% 39% than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital may be issued under the PSP, Sharesave Plan or SIP The table provides the target growth at threshold and maximum and any other employee share scheme adopted by the for 2013, 2014 and 2015.
EPS targets rise from threshold to Company.
In addition, the PSP provides that in any period maximum and vesting in between is on a straight-line basis.
of 10 calendar years, not more than 5% of the Companys EPS is measured over a three-year period taking as a starting issued ordinary share capital may be issued under the PSP figure the 2012, 2013 and 2014 EPS respectively.
and any other executive share plan adopted by the Company.
The Groups TSR is ranked against the constituents of the The Company operates within these limits, currently 1.44% in FTSE 250 Index at the date of grant excluding investment all employee share scheme plans and 0.93% in Executive Plans.
25% of the TSR element of the award All-employee share plans vests for median performance rising on a straight-line basis to The Board adopted two all-employee share plans in 2013: 100% vesting for upper quartile ranking or above.
TSR is the SIP and the Sharesave Plan.
Participation is currently being measured over the period starting with the Listing date and offered under the Sharesave Plan to employees including the ending on 31 December 2015 for the 2013 award, between Executive Directors.
Following the 2014 Sharesave Plan 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2016 for the 2014 award employees can save up to 500 a month from 250 in 2013 and between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2017 for to purchase shares on the exercise of their Sharesave options at the 2015 award.
a purchase price of 80% of market value at the date of grant.
Outstanding share awards audited The table below sets out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards as at 31 December 2015.
As is the case with all savings-related share option schemes, there are no performance criteria.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 55 Directors shareholdings and share interests audited To align the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders, Executive Directors are required to build up shareholdings equivalent to 200% of salary, through the retention of shares vesting under the Companys share plans.
Executive Directors are required to retain at least 50% of their net-of-tax value of any vested PSP awards, until such time as the share ownership target has been met.
Outstanding PSP awards with Outstanding Shareholding Beneficially Beneficially performance Sharesave awards as % of salary owned at owned at conditions as at without Shareholding achieved at 1 January 31 December 31 December performance guideline 31 December Director 2015 2015 2015 conditions % of salary 2015 Stuart Vann 2,095,042 2,095,042 1,004,044 9,414 150% 1,011% Darren Ogden 1,210,498 1,210,498 567,887 9,346 150% 862% Peter Wood 128,609,655 128,609,655 Dame Helen Alexander 86,351 Anthony Hobson 236,187 Anne Richards 0 0 Peter Ward 236,187 236,187 Mike Evans 0 0 Shirley Garrood 0 0 Mara Dolores Dancausa 0 43,725 Martin Pike 0 40,000 Angela Seymour-Jackson 0 0 Calculated using a share price of 253.20p as at 31 December 2015.
Note: No changes have taken place to any Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2015 and 7 March 2016.
Total shareholder return performance graph Chief Executive Officers total remuneration The table below shows the total remuneration figure for 140 the Chief Executive Officer in 2013, 2014 and 2015.
Annual 120 Total bonus PSP vesting remuneration % of max % of max 100 2015 824,425 62.6% 0% 2014 742,061 52.9% N A 80 2013 662,576 50.2% N A 60 Percentage change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration 40 The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year 20 ended 31 December 2015 and the year ended 31 December 2014 for the Chief Executive Officer compared to the average 0 esure Group employee during the year.
27 Mar 2013 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 Annual FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts The Company 1 2 1 Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive Officer 8.0% 6.2% 25.5% The graph above shows the Companys TSR performance Employee increase 4.1% 9.6% 17.0% against the performance of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts from 27 March 2013 being the first Gocompare employee increase 5.6% 6.1% 30.6% day of Listing to 31 December 2015.
Reflects the change year-on-year for employees employed excluding investment trusts was chosen as being in both the year ended 31 December 2014 and the year ended a broad equity market index, which includes companies 31 December 2015.
Stuart Vanns salary was increased in July 2015 of a comparable size and complexity.
in recognition of the significant changes to the scope and responsibilities of his role since his last salary increase, notably the added complexity of the role brought about by the acquisition of Gocompare.
com is based upon those employed at 1 April 2015 and 31 December 2015 in line with the acquisition of Gocompare.
Comparison is made year-on-year of the Chief Executive Officer and employees with the same benefits.
Percentage change reflects change in pension, healthcare and life assurance of employees employed at both 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015. esure Group Annual Report 2015 56 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Relative importance of the spend on remuneration 64m 2015 The chart below compares the actual expenditure on total Staff costs 2014 54m remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group with distributions to shareholders by way of dividend, underlying profit before tax, corporation tax payable in 83m Profit respect of the financial year, underlying profit after tax before tax 107m and retained profit.
Following the acquisition of the outstanding 50% of Gocompare.
com on 31 March 2015, the Group believes its underlying profit best 15m Corporation reflects its performance for the period.
The reported profit is tax adjusted for the Groups joint venture deemed disposal gain and 22m 103m amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
The 2014 comparative information for profit before tax, corporation tax payable in respect of the financial year, profit after tax and retained profit has been 48m restated accordingly to allow a like for like comparison.
Dividend 70m 20m Retained profit 16m 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 Note: Includes Gocompare.
com staff costs since 1 April 2016.
How the Remuneration Policy will be applied for the year ending 31 December 2016 A summary of how the Policy will be applied during the forthcoming year is set out below.
Salaries for Executive Directors Further to the salary review conducted in July see above, the Committee has not awarded any additional increases for 2016.
The table shows the salaries as at 1 January 2015, 1 July 2015 and 1 January 2016.
Salary as at Salary as at Salary as at 1 January 2016 Increase 1 July 2015 Increase 1 January 2015 Stuart Vann Chief Executive Officer 524,500 0% 524,500 8% 484,500 Darren Ogden Chief Finance Officer 355,500 0% 355,500 9% 325,500 Salary for the Chairman Pension and other benefits The Chairmans salary has not been increased for 2016.
These will be awarded in line with the Policy.
The current salary is as follows: Annual bonus Salary as at Salary as at The maximum bonus potential for the year ending 31 December 1 January 2016 1 June 2015 % increase 2016 will be 125% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman 730,000 730,000 0% Chief Finance Officer, in line with the Policy.
This is an increase from the awards granted in previous years, and reflects the Fees for the Non-Executive Directors increased size and scope of the roles.
The performance measures The Non-Executive Directors fees have not been increased will be Group trading profit for 60% of the maximum bonus for 2016 and will be reviewed in June.
Any changes will be available, delivery of strategic measures such as continued made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy and will be development and implementation of the Gocompare.
com disclosed in full in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
strategy and further expansion of the underwriting footprint for 15% and personal and customer performance measures based A summary of current fees policy is as follows: around conduct and customer objectives for the remaining 25%.
2016 2015 % increase Targets will be disclosed retrospectively as early as possible Deputy Chairman and Senior after they cease to be commercially sensitive, which we intend Independent Director 125,000 125,000 0% to be in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee Base fee 60,000 60,000 0% discussed this timeline for disclosing targets with major Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 0% shareholders in a consultation exercise in January 2016 and shareholders were largely comfortable with this approach.
The role of Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director is held by one person for which a single annual fee is payable In accordance with our Remuneration Policy, 30% of any bonuses encompassing all Board duties.
awarded at the end of the performance period will be deferred Currently no fees are paid for membership of Board Committees, into shares, which will be released in thirds over a three year although this may be considered as part of the review.
Participants will be eligible to receive dividends on these shares, subject to compliance with regulatory guidance.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Financial Statements Governance 57 Strategic Leadership Plan SLP The 2016 awards will be subject to two independent SLP awards to be granted to the Chief Executive Officer in performance conditions.
Three-quarters of the award will 2016 will be shares worth 300% of salary and to the Chief be determined by reference to growth in absolute total Finance Officer 250% of salary.
The maximum awards under shareholder return TSR and one quarter will be determined the Policy are 300% for the Chief Executive Officer and 250% by reference to relative total shareholder return as set out for the Chief Finance Officer.
It is, however, the Committees below.
Performance will be measured over a three-year period intention that it will not grant awards under the SLP at the beginning on 1 January 2016.
Awards will vest, subject to maximum levels permitted by the rules as a matter of course, performance, on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
but rather that grant sizes will be reviewed each year with Vesting will be determined with reference to four points, reference to the current business context.
There is straight line vesting between these points.
Threshold Mid Good Maximum 15% 35% 66% exceptional Performance condition vesting vesting vesting 100% vesting Absolute total shareholder return growth 13% p. a.
Relative total shareholders against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and the Company Median Upper quartile Upper quintile Upper decile Absolute TSR is a new performance measure for this year The members of the Committee during the financial year and has been chosen to reflect esures focus on delivering and their attendance at the meetings of the Committee were: significant increased Group value.
The relative TSR targets Number of meetings have been amended for 2016, with full vesting only occurring attended out of potential maximum for delivery of upper decile performance relative to the 1 comparator group.
Overall, maximum performance targets Martin Pike Committee Chairman 2 of 2 are significantly more stretching than previous years awards 1 Mike Evans 3 of 3 to reflect esures philosophy of rewarding for exceptional 2 Dame Helen Alexander 2 of 2 performance.
The Committee is confident that these measures Shirley Garrood 5 of 5 are the most appropriate given the current business context 2 Anthony Hobson 2 of 2 and that the targets are sufficiently challenging given the market conditions.
Peter Ward 5 of 5 3 Angela Seymour-Jackson 1 of 1 Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are required to build up shareholdings 1.
As of 12 August 2015 Mike Evans stepped down as Chairman through the retention of vested PSP awards.
50% of any and Martin Pike was appointed as the new Committee Chairman.
vested PSP awards net of tax must be retained until the 2.
Dame Helen Alexander and Anthony Hobson stepped down as a member of the Board on 13 May 2015. share ownership guidelines has been achieved.
Angela Seymour-Jackson became a member of the The share ownership guideline for 2016 and until further Remuneration committee on 13 October 2015. notice is 200% of base salary for all Executive Directors.
All of the members of the Remuneration Committee are Remuneration Committee governance independent Non-Executive Directors, as defined under The Committee is governed by formal terms of reference the Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference for the The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Committee can be viewed on the Companys website Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel & Company Secretary and at http: www.
com  HR Director may, by invitation, attend meetings, except when corporate-governance .
their own remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved The responsibilities of the Committee include: determining in determining his or her own remuneration.
None of the and agreeing with the Board the Remuneration Policy and Committee members have had any personal financial interest, total individual remuneration packages of the Chairman, except as shareholders, in the matters decided.
The Company Executive Directors and senior management, including, Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
where relevant, benefits and pension arrangements, determining and agreeing with the Board any performance-related pay schemes for senior management and overseeing any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
No Director or executive shall be involved in any decisions as to his or her own remuneration.
esure Group Annual Report 2015 58 Annual Report on Remuneration continued External advisors The Committee is advised by Deloitte LLP Deloitte.
Deloitte was appointed by the Remuneration Committee in 2015 through a competitive tender process.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Furthermore, no member of the Deloitte engagement team has any personal connection with esure Group.
As such, the Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte is independent and objective.
The total fees paid to Deloitte in respect of its services to the Committee for the year ending 31 December 2015 were 121,050.
Fees are predominantly charged on a time spent basis.
During the year, Deloitte also provided the Company with advice in relation to Research and Development tax services.
Prior to the appointment of Deloitte, the Committee was advised by New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name for Aon Hewitt, being a subsidiary of Aon plc.
The total fees paid to NBS in respect of its services to the Committee in the year ending 31 December 2015 were 24,000.
Statement of voting at the AGM At the AGM on 13 May 2015 the annual advisory votes were as follows: Proportion Shares in Votes for Votes against of share which votes Resolution and percentage of votes cast and percentage of votes cast capital voting were withheld Remuneration Report for year ended 31 December 2014 322,820,769 96.93% 10,224,347 3.07% 79.90% 54,382 Approval This Directors Remuneration Report, including both the Policy and Annual Remuneration Report, has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Martin Pike Chairman of the Remuneration Committee esure Group Annual Report 2015
