Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 65 annual statement from the Remuneration committee chairman The strategy for the Group is set out in the Strategic Report and Dear shareholder is focused on creating long-term value for our shareholders On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our by delivering sustainable growth.
The Committee takes a first Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended strategic approach to determining remuneration policy to 31December 2015.
The current Remuneration Committee ensure alignment with the strategic plan and the interests became effective in September 2015, prior to the IPO of our shareholders through the design and delivery in October 2015.
Prior to this a Group Nomination and of meaningful and tailored incentives with stretching Remuneration Committee was in place.
References to the performance targets for our executive team.
Remuneration Committee in this report include activities both before and after flotation.
As required this report is set out in The final structure is set out in the following pages and is two parts: a Policy Report which sets out our Remuneration consistent with typical FTSE 250 practice.
Salaries for key Policy Policy for all Directors of the Group and an Annual individuals were adjusted to reflect the scope and size of the Report on Remuneration Report which sets out how our role in the listed entity environment.
A Long-Term Incentive Plan Directors were paid in 2015 and how we will apply our Policy LTIP was adopted just prior to the IPO and the first awards in 2016.
Shareholders will be asked to vote on both the Policy, will shortly be granted to key individuals.
Executive Directors which will be binding, and the Report at the AGM in May 2016. will not receive an award, but will be considered for the three year performance period beginning January 2017.
As Executive The Company undertook a review of remuneration for senior Directors have not received an award, disclosure of the LTIP management in preparation for flotation.
The objective of performance conditions is not required but in the interests the remuneration review was to provide a reward structure of transparent reporting has been included in this report.
that enables the Company to recruit, motivate, retain and reward senior management to support its business goals.
To recognise the contribution of key individuals to the IPO Underpinning this objective we applied the following and to the importance of keeping these people within the principles: Company, a one-off conditional award of shares Admission Minimal change to current structures: Awards was made shortly after the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange Admission.
The awards are Aligning the interests of management with those expressed in cash terms and will be delivered in Shares at the of shareholders: end of 2017 and 2018 based on the market price of Company An appropriate balance between short-term reward and shares at that time.
In the event that the Board determines recognition and also incentivising a long-term view: that the market price of Company shares has fallen materially since the grant of the Admission Awards, the Board may Retention of senior management and the wider workforce: reduce the value of the Admission Awards at the time they Reward structures, performance conditions and targets become payable.
Recipients of an Admission Award were that are easily understood: and not considered for an LTIP award this year.
A non-hierarchical approach supporting the Groups one team culture.
