66 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Remuneration report Remuneration decisions and changes Remuneration changes for 2016 in respect of 2015 A portion of bonus awards made to Executive Directors from the performance year 2016 onwards will be deferred Having decided that the current levels of target bonus of 50% salary for senior management remained appropriate post into shares for a period of three years.
The initial percentage deferred will be 25% of any bonus award.
The Committee will Admission, the Committee felt, in the interests of clarity, that they should introduce a maximum bonus level of 100% salary.
keep the proportion to be deferred under review to ensure the level remains appropriate and in line with market practice.
Such an award would only be made for outstanding financial and personal performance and the determination of bonus No change was made to pension arrangements or any other benefits.
LTIP awards are expected to be made before the next Annual As described in the Strategic Report, the Company achieved a strong financial performance during its first year as a listed Report and Accounts and Executive Directors will be eligible for consideration.
The Committee will determine appropriate Group.
The 2015 annual bonus pool was based on financial metrics and individual awards were based on personal targets at the time of award.
In recognition of the work undertaken by the Executive Directors in taking the Company through the IPO annual General Meeting and a successful year financially, the Committee has decided The Directors Remuneration Policy and the Directors to award a bonus of 150,000 to the Chief Executive Officer, Remuneration Report will be put to the shareholder vote representing 44% of salary earned during the year, and at our AGM in May 2016 and we look forward to receiving 90,000 to the Chief Financial Officer, representing 47% your support.
of salary earned during the year.
The Committee also considered the terms of the LTIP.
The Committee determined that the performance conditions for the first awards should be based on Total Shareholder Return TSR and Earnings Per Share EPS performance targets with a 50% weighting to each measure.
Subject to achievement of the relevant targets, these awards will vest in early 2019 in accordance with the normal business cycle.
The Committee is satisfied that the targets set a minimum level of achievement for vesting and are appropriately linked to the delivery of demanding long-term financial goals and the creation of shareholder value.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 67 Directors Remuneration Policy This section sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Directors of the Company, split between Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors the Policy.
If approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2016, the Policy will apply from that date and subject to review and approval by shareholders at least every three years or sooner should the Company choose to amend the Policy.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out in this report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation, without obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments.
Remuneration Policy table execUtIve DIRectORS element and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures to strategy The Committee takes into account a number of factors There is no set maximum None Base salary to salary levels or salary Fixed remuneration when setting and reviewing salaries, including: increases.
Account will be that is appropriate Scope and responsibility of the role: for the role and to taken of increases applied to Any changes to the scope or size of the role: colleagues as a whole when secure and retain The skills and experience of the individual: the talent required determining salary increases for the Executive Directors, by the Company.
Salary levels for similar roles within appropriate however the Committee comparators: and retains the discretion to Value of the remuneration package as a whole.
award higher increases where it considers it appropriate.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually, with any increase usually taking effect from January.
Pension The Company operates defined contribution group The maximum annual None personal pension schemes.
company contribution is Fixed remuneration that assists in currently 10% of salary.
Executive Directors may elect to opt out of the pension providing income scheme and receive the equivalent Company contribution The Committee retains the in retirement.
discretion to increase the company contribution in line with levels in the wider market.
Benefits include, but are not limited to, a car allowance, The current car allowance None Benefits private medical cover for the Executive and family, life is a fixed amount of 8,000 Fixed remuneration assurance, long-term disability insurance and costs per annum.
The Committee that provides associated with rental property.
retains the discretion to protection for the review this in line with levels individual which is Where an Executive Director is required to relocate, in the wider market.
benefits may be provided to support the relocation, including relocation assistance, housing or a housing The cost of other benefits is allowance and reimbursement of travel costs where dependent on the terms of appropriate and any tax arising as a consequence.
Share Incentive Executive Directors may participate in the SIP on the Participation in any HMRCNone same terms as all other employees.
The SIP is expected to approved all-employee Plan SIP commence in April 2016. share plan is subject to the Aligns employee maximum permitted by the and shareholder relevant tax legislation.
68 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Remuneration report continued execUtIve DIRectORS continued element and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures to strategy Objectives are set annually based on the achievement 50% of salary for on-target Awards are based on annual bonus Variable of strategic goals.
At the end of the year, the Committee performance with an absolute financial, operational meets to review individual and corporate performance maximum opportunity of and individual goals remuneration that rewards the against objectives and determines payout levels.
achievement of From the performance year 2016 onwards, a portion of At least 50% of the annual financial, bonus normally will be deferred into an award of shares award will be assessed operational and under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
Normally, not less against the Companys individual objectives than 25% of any bonus will be deferred for a period of financial performance.
integral to Company three years.
The remainder of strategy over a one the award will be Accrued dividends can be paid in cash or shares, to the year period.
based on personal extent that awards vest.
performance against The Committee may adjust and amend awards in individual objectives.
accordance with the DBP rules.
The split between these performance measures The Committee may reduce the size of unvested will be determined awards if a there is a material misstatement of audited annually by the results or an error in the calculation of the bonus: b Committee.
the Executive Director commits gross misconduct: or c events or the Executive Directors behaviour has a significant detrimental impact on Hastings reputation and the Committee determines the Executive Director is responsible or directly accountable for that damage during a period beginning at the start of the bonus year and ending three years after the bonus was determined.
Where appropriate, the Committee may also require the participant to repay some or all the value of the shares received under an award in the circumstances referred to in a or b during the same period.
Awards granted under the LTIP vest subject to The normal maximum level of LTIP performance long-term achievement of performance conditions measured awards that may be made in conditions will be Incentive over a three year period.
respect of a financial year is reviewed annually.
In exceptional Conditions and targets Variable LTIPs are made as conditional share awards, however circumstances the Committee will be selected to align remuneration may be made in other forms e. g. nil cost options if it may grant awards of up to with the Companys designed to is considered appropriate.
incentivise and Accrued dividends may be paid in cash or shares, reward the The current intention is to the extent that awards vest.
achievement of longthat Executive Directors term targets aligned The Committee may adjust and amend awards will not participate in the with shareholder in accordance with the LTIP rules.
LTIP during 2016 but will interests.
The Committee may reduce the size of unvested awards LTIP also assists if a there is a material misstatement of audited results or Performance measures in the retention of an error in the assessment of the performance conditions for awards going Executive Directors.
applicable to an award: b the Executive Director commits forward are yet to be gross misconduct: or c events or the Executive Directors determined, however, behaviour has a significant detrimental impact on Hastings the current intention is reputation and the Committee determines the Executive that they will be linked Director is responsible or directly accountable for that to a measure based damage during a period beginning at the start of the shareholder returns and performance period and ending on the sixth anniversary a measure based on of the grant date.
After vesting but before the sixth earnings performance.
anniversary of the grant date, the Committee may also At threshold require the participant to repay some or all the value of performance, no more the shares received under an award in the circumstances than 25% of the award will referred to in a or b. vest, rising to 100% for maximum performance.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Stretch performance Threshold performance Minimum Stretch performance Threshold performance Minimum Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 69 notes to the policy table Illustration of the Remuneration Policy Any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office The remuneration arrangements have been designed to not in line with the Policy as detailed may nevertheless be ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent satisfied where i the terms of the payment or award were on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term agreed before the Policy came into effect including awards performance targets aligned with the Groups objectives, under the legacy Management Incentive Plan MIP and the and on delivering shareholder value.
The Committee considers Admission Awards where relevant, and ii the individual the level of remuneration that may be received under different was not a Director of the Company at the time and in the performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in Committees opinion was not in consideration for becoming the context of the performance delivered and the value added a Director of the Company.
The MIP was agreed before the for shareholders.
The charts that follow provide illustrative Policy came into effect and details of the MIP, including values of the annual remuneration packages for Executive disclosure of potential value arising under the MIP is included Directors based on three assumed performance scenarios.
in this Directors Remuneration Report in the section Legacy Minimum reflects fixed remuneration only.
Threshold arrangements on page 73. performance is on-target performance for bonus awards and threshold performance for LTIP i. e. 25% of maximum.
Stretch Performance measures and approach performance reflects maximum performance under both the to target setting bonus and the LTIP.
Share price appreciation has not been annual bonus taken into account.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
The performance measures for the annual bonus are Shareholders should note that the scenarios are based on designed to provide an appropriate balance between future policy and Executive Directors will not receive an award incentivising Executive Directors to meet financial targets of LTIP during the 2016 performance year.
for the year and to deliver specific strategic, operational and personal goals without placing undue incentive on short-term ceO Gary Hoffman cFO Richard Hoskins success at the expense of long-term growth.
Personal and 000 000 corporate objectives are approved by the Board each year 1,100 2,074.3 to ensure that Executive Directors are focused on the key financial and strategic objectives for the financial year.
In doing so, the Committee usually takes into account a number of 1,378.0 internal and external reference points, including the Groups business plan and Group operating profit targets.
1035.2 267.188 long-term Incentive Plan 689.0 530.5 178.125 The Committee believes it is important that the performance 354.5 conditions applying to LTIP awards support the long-term ambitions of the Group and the creation of shareholder value.
The Committee currently considers that a combination of relative TSR and EPS are the most appropriate measures to assess the underlying performance of the business, while creating alignment with shareholders and rewarding long-term value creation.
The Committee will keep the measures and weightings under review to ensure that the most appropriate Salary and benefits Deferred bonus measures to incentivise the long-term success of the Group Cash bonus LTIP are used.
Performance targets are set taking into account a number of reference points, including the Groups long-term business plan, market conditions and consensus forecasts.
70 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Remuneration report continued nOn-execUtIve DIRectORS approach to fees and Operation Performance link to strategy measures The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee.
None Fixed payment to remunerate The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Board.
No Director is involved non-executive in setting his own remuneration.
Directors Fee levels are determined by assessing the skills and experience required along with the likely Set at an appropriate time commitment and market indicators.
level to attract NonExecutive Directors Fees may be paid in cash or Company shares.
of the required Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee and an additional fee for specific Board calibre and to reflect responsibilities, including membership and chairmanship of committees or acting as the the time commitment Senior Independent Director.
and responsibility of the position.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company are reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate along with any commensurate tax liability.
Non-Executive Director fees are subject to a maximum cap of 1,500,000 as stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
Any changes in this would be subject to shareholder approval.
Directors service contracts loss of office payment policy Executive Directors have rolling service contracts which are If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, terminable on six months notice on either side.
The contracts any compensation payable will be determined by reference provide for mitigation of any payment in lieu of notice to to the terms of the service contract between the Company the extent that the Executive Director secures alternative and the employee, as well as the rules of any awards relating to employment during what would have been the full notice variable pay.
The Committee may structure any compensation period.
The service contracts for Executive Directors make payments beyond the notice provisions in the contract in no provision for termination payments, other than for such a way as it deems appropriate taking into account the payment in lieu of salary.
The Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions Payment in lieu of notice relating to salary, car allowance, pension arrangements, salary The Company may at its discretion make termination payments continuance in the event of extended absence due to illness, in lieu of notice based only on base salary.
The notice period holiday and sick pay, life insurance, personal accident, medical for both Executive Directors is six months.
insurance, dependants pensions, and the reimbursement of reasonable out of pocket expenses incurred by the Executive Bonus Directors while on Company business.
There is no entitlement to a bonus in any year.
The Committee retains discretion to award bonuses for leavers taking into The service contracts in respect of Executive Directors who account the circumstances of departure.
Any bonus would were in office during the year are rolling service contracts and normally be subject to performance, deferral into the DBP therefore have no end date.
The date of commencement for and time pro-rating as appropriate.
the service contract is 9 October 2015 in respect of the Chief Executive Officer and 8 October 2015 in respect of the Chief Deferred bonus Financial Officer.
Deferred bonus awards will not lapse if the Executive Director ceases to be employed before the normal vesting date except The Company has agreed to mitigate Richard Hoskins exposure in cases where he has breached a term of his employment or to income tax liability on shares acquired under the MIP and service contract or has been summarily dismissed, unless the any related liabilities, in the event that he is unable to realise Committee determines otherwise.
If the Executive Director the benefit of those shares by reason of termination of his dies, any outstanding awards will vest at the time of his death.
employment or non-vesting of the shares for any other reason.
In any other circumstances, awards will vest at the normal vesting date, unless the Committee determines that they should vest earlier.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 71 long-term Incentive Plan provisions provided in the Listing Rules for the purpose of making such an award, or to utilise any other incentive plan Treatment of LTIP awards is governed by the LTIP rules.
Ifan Executive Director is designated as a good leaver any outstanding LTIP awards will normally be pro-rated to reflect The service contracts for new appointments will be consistent the portion of the performance period that has elapsed at with the Policy for existing Executive Directors.
the time the Executive Director leaves vesting period in the case of Admission Awards and will normally vest based on Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the performance to the end of the original performance period, Group, any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line unless the Committee at its absolute discretion determines an with the original terms and conditions as long as these do alternative approach should apply.
Good leaver circumstances not cause a material conflict with the Policy.
If an Executive are reasons of injury, disability, ill-health, retirement, the Director is appointed following an acquisition of, or merger sale of the individuals employing Company or businesses with, another Company, legacy terms and conditions that out of the Group or for any other reason at the discretion of are of higher value than provided in the Policy would normally the Committee.
In the event of death, awards will normally be honoured.
vest early taking to account the Committees assessment of performance against the performance conditions to the date If a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director is appointed, of death and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those the pro-rating as described above.
detailed earlier in the Policy report.
In any other circumstances, any unvested LTIP awards will lapse.
employee consultation change of control Given the size and complexity of the Group, it was not Outstanding incentive awards will be treated in line with the considered appropriate to perform a formal consultation provisions of the applicable plan rules.
process on the Remuneration Policy of Executive Directors with other employees.
However, the Company is committed to Other payments the alignment of all employee interests with shareholders and Other payments such as legal fees or outplacement costs may has therefore introduced arrangements, via a SIP, to enable be paid if it is considered appropriate.
all employees to acquire shares in the Company and they will then be able to vote on the Executive Directors remuneration in the same way as other shareholders.
In addition, the Recruitment policy HR function will provide any employee feedback to the In determining remuneration for new Executive Directors, Remuneration Committee for consideration, as appropriate.
the Committee will consider all relevant factors, including the requirements of the role, the external market and internal Other considerations relativities, while aiming not to pay more than is necessary to secure the preferred candidate.
The Committee will seek In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also to align the new Executive Directors remuneration package considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere to the Policy.
in the Group, especially in terms of salary reviews and the application awards relative to corporate performance.
Normally, benefits will be limited to those outlined in the Colleagues within the Group receive base salary, benefits, Policy, including relocation assistance where necessary.
The pension and an annual bonus.
The terms and value of these maximum level of variable pay excluding any buyouts that elements will vary based on seniority.
As noted, Colleagues may be awarded to a new Executive Director will be limited are invited to participate in the SIP to align interests with the to 400% of base salary, as set out in the Policy table.
The Companys shareholders, however, in line with market practice Committee believes that the existing incentive plans contain only senior executives within the Company are currently sufficient flexibility to provide any specific awards that may eligible to participate in the LTIP.
be necessary to secure a particular individual.
Within this limit, the Committee may include any element included within the Although the Company only recently became a public listed approved policy, or any other element which the Committee company, the Committee understands the importance of considers is appropriate given the particular circumstances.
understanding the views of the Companys shareholders.
The Committee is therefore open to listening to the views The Committee may buy out remuneration terms a new hire of our shareholders and engaging in ongoing dialogue with has had to forfeit on joining the Group.
Any such buyout them on executive remuneration matters.
The Committee awards will be of comparable commercial value and reflect as also takes full account of the guidelines of investor bodies closely as practicable the form and structure of the forfeited and shareholder views in determining the remuneration awards, including time horizons and performance conditions arrangements in operation within the Group.
and the probability of those conditions being met.
Where appropriate, the Committee retains the discretion to use the 72 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Remuneration report continued annual bonus annual report on remuneration The Executive Directors annual bonus targets were set at the This section sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy beginning of the financial year, prior to Admission.
of the Company has been applied since Admission and details how the Committee intends to apply the Policy going forward.
The Executive Directors annual bonus awards in relation An advisory shareholder resolution to approve this report will to 2015 were measured against a basket of measures and be proposed at the AGM in May 2016. objectives.
They were weighted 50% on financial objectives and 50% on personal objectives.
Single total figure of remuneration executive Directors audited information Strong progress was made by the Executive Directors on the The following table sets out the audited total remuneration financial objectives.
Highlights for 2015 include: continued for the Executive Directors for the period from 3 September growth culminating in a Group operating profit of 126.1m 2015, representing the date that the Executive Directors and the successful flotation of the Company.
Both Executive commenced duties for Hastings Group Holdings plc, to Directors also made strong progress against the personal 31December 2015.
The Remuneration Committee did not objectives set at the beginning of the year.
apportion the Executive Directors 2015 bonus between work undertaken pre and post 3 September and consequently the The Committee has considered it appropriate not to disclose full year award has been shown.
As the Company was a newly the actual targets for these awards as they were set at a time listed company during 2015, there is no disclosure in this when the Company was a private company and as such the report of prior year information.
Board considers the underlying targets to be commercially sensitive.
Gary Hoffman Richard Hoskins Salary 136,391 95,798 Based on the performance achieved in the year, the Benefits 30,447 3,236 Committee decided to award a bonus of 150,000 to the Retirement benefits 13,639 9,580 Chief Executive Officer, representing 44% of salary earned Annual bonus 150,000 90,000 during the year, and 90,000 to the Chief Financial Officer, LTIP representing 47% of salary earned during the year.
Admission Award vesting in 2017 and 2018 1,500,000 1,000,000 long-term incentives No long-term incentive awards vested based on performance Total 1,830,477 1,198,614 in the year.
additional notes to the table admission awards Salary The Executive Directors were granted conditional share awards On Admission, the salary for the Chief Executive Officer was at the time of Admission, given the importance placed by the 475,000 and the salary for the Chief Financial Officer was Committee on retaining key individuals at the time and as the 315,000.
Their salaries for 2016 remain unchanged and will business transitioned in to being a listed company.
As required, the values shown in the table represent the Benefits face value of the awards at Admission, which are subject The benefits consist of private medical insurance for the to the Executive Directors continued employment with the Executive Directors and their families, long-term sickness Company.
The individuals have not yet received any value cover, life assurance and a car allowance.
The Company meets from these awards.
the cost of a rental property in the Bexhill area and the cost of travel to and from the Bexhill and Newmarket offices and any The awards are expressed in cash terms and will be delivered consequent tax liability for the Chief Executive Officer.
The cost in shares at the end of 2017 and 2018 based on the market of these benefits are included based on the latest completed price of shares at that time.
The award for Gary Hoffman will returns to HMRC for the year ended 5 April 2015.
The costs are be 750,000 payable at the end of 2017 and 750,000 payable not believed to be materially different since that return.
The award for Richard Hoskins will be 500,000 payable at the end of 2017 and 500,000 payable Retirement benefits at the end of 2018.
In the event that the Board determines The amount set out in the table represents the Company that the market price of shares has fallen materially since contribution to the Directors retirement planning at a rate the grant of the Admission Awards, the Board may reduce of 10% of base salary.
Gary Hoffman receives cash in lieu the value of the Admission Awards at the time they become of pension.
No further Admission Awards will be made.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 73 legacy arrangements EPS Relative TSR Vesting is based on the Vesting is based on TSR Management Incentive Plan cumulative pence per share performance measured against As disclosed in the IPO Prospectus, a management incentive target over each of the three the constituents of the FTSE 250 plan was established at the time of the Goldman Sachs years of the performance cycle excluding investment trusts investment in the business in January 2014.
The outstanding interests held by Directors are set out in the Directors proportion proportion Shareholding and Scheme Interests table on page 74.
EPS performance vesting TSR performance vesting The interests are subject to the following vesting conditions: Below Threshold 0% Below median 0% 50% of the interests being on a time basis and 50% on a Threshold 54.6p performance basis.
The time vesting element vests as to per share 25% Median 25% 20% on the first anniversary of the date of original issue with Stretch 63.8p the remainder vesting pro-rata over the subsequent four per share 100% Upper quartile 100% years.
The interests subject to performance conditions will Straight-line vesting between Straight-line vesting between vest in whole or in part when Goldman Sachs and Founder Threshold and Stretch median and upper quartile shareholder interests in the Group fall below 35% in aggregate or 8 July 2018, and subject to certain valuation and investment external appointments return targets being met.
Executive Directors may hold external directorships if the Gary Hoffman acquired his interests in January 2014 and, Chairman determines that such appointments do not cause as at 31 December 2015, 38.4% of the time vesting element any conflict of interest.
Where such appointments are had vested.
Richard Hoskins acquired his interests in April approved and held, it is a matter for the Chairman to agree 2015 and, as at 31 December 2015, none of the time vesting whether fees paid in respect of the appointment are retained element had yet vested.
by the individual or paid to the Company.
As at 31 December 2015, assuming all vesting conditions Gary Hoffman currently holds three external appointments, are met, the total MIP interests for Gary Hoffman and with Visa Europe Ltd, Visa Europe Services Inc and The Richard Hoskins would have a value equivalent to 5,147,659 Football Foundation.
The appointment with The Football and 1,437,334 ordinary Company shares respectively.
As the Foundation is unpaid.
Remuneration for Gary Hoffmans amounts attributable to the historic MIP are payable from the appointments with Visa are not disclosed as Visa is not proceeds of shares held by Hastings Investco Limited, they required to make any such disclosure and to do so here have no impact on the Companys cash flow or profitability.
would be inconsistent with Visas reporting obligations.
Scheme interests awarded to executive Directors Single total figure of remuneration non-executive in the year Directors audited information No awards under the LTIP have yet been granted to Executive The following table sets out the audited total remuneration for Directors.
Gary Hoffman and Richard Hoskins will be the Non-Executive Directors for the period from 3 September considered for awards at the next three year performance 2015, representing the date that the Non-Executive Directors cycle which will run from January 2017. commenced duties for Hastings Group Holdings plc, to 31December 2015.
LTIP Awards will however be granted to other senior executives Fees within the group in 2016.
These awards may vest conditional Michael Fairey 48,864 on performance over a three year period to 31December 2018.
Whilst there is no requirement to disclose the performance Thomas Colraine 26,061 conditions attached to these awards, in the interests Malcolm Le May 21,174 of transparent reporting, the Committee considered it Ian Cormack 16,288 appropriate to provide details on the performance conditions Pierre Lefevre 14,659 attached to these awards.
The Committee considered the Richard Brewster key long-term objectives over the performance period and Edward Fitzmaurice determined that the awards should be linked to the value Sumit Rajpal created for shareholders over the period.
As a consequence Michele Titi-Cappelli the awards are equally weighted against relative TSR and EPS performance targets.
The EPS target is a cumulative pence The fees shown are paid to each Non-Executive Director from 3 September 2015 and include additional fees for chairing sub-committees where appropriate.
per share target over each of the three years.
The Committee Richard Brewster, Edward Fitzmaurice, Sumit Rajpal and Michele Titi-Cappelli felt this approach would encourage longer term planning have waived their fees for their roles as Non-Executive Directors.
and would help smooth out some of the volatility driven The Company issued shares at 170p to four of the Independent Non-Executive by changes in the insurance market cycle.
The targets are Directors with a value net of tax of 50,000 in the case of Michael Fairey and 30,000 each in the case of Thomas Colraine, Ian Cormack and Malcolm Le May.
Gross of tax and national insurance contributions, the value of these awards was 62,500, 56,604, 54,545 and 48,908 respectively.
74 Corporate governance Annual Report 2015 Hastings Group Holdings plc Remuneration report continued Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016 Statement of Directors shareholding and scheme interests audited information Base salary As has been disclosed elsewhere in this report, salaries for The table below sets out the Directors shareholdings in the Group as at 31 December 2015.
Executive Directors will not be reviewed before 2017, and therefore no changes have been made to the salaries for The Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain Gary Hoffman 475,000 and Richard Hoskins 315,000. a holding equivalent to twice their base salary.
Gary Hoffman has met this target and Richard Hoskins is expected to meet Benefits and pension the target as share based awards vest.
The table below These will be implemented in line with the approved policy.
represents actual shareholdings and, in the case of Gary Hoffman and Richard Hoskins, scheme interests in the MIP.
Bonus Admission Awards will be delivered in shares at the prevailing The maximum opportunity for each Executive Director share price at the point of vesting, and no LTIP awards have in respect of 2016 will be 100% of base salary.
Any bonus yet been made to Executive Directors.
payment in respect of 2016 will be subject to deferral with at least 25% of any bonus awarded in respect of 2016 deferred 3, 4 Scheme interests into shares for three years.
MIP interests MIP interests subject to subject to The level of the award will be based primarily on Group Number of time-based performance operating profit, the details of which are commercially shares owned conditions conditions sensitive and will therefore be disclosed for 2016 in next 1 Gary Hoffman 2,771,785 5,828,637 5,828,637 years report.
The Committee will also give weight to each Richard Hoskins 1,627,477 1,627,477 Executive Directors achievement against a range of financial Mike Fairey 29,411 and non-financial objectives agreed at the start of 2016 and Thomas Colraine 76,470 will consider the Groups longer term position in reaching a Richard Brewster 19,133,222 conclusion on the award to be made.
Ian Cormack 35,294 2 long-term Incentive Plan Edward Fitzmaurice There is currently no intention to make Long-Term Incentive Pierre Lefevre 82,169 Plan Awards to Executive Directors during 2016.
Malcolm Le May 17,647 Sumit Rajpal non-executive Director fees Michele Titi-Cappelli There are no anticipated changes to Non-Executive Director 1 Gary Hoffman also holds legacy interests in Hastings Investco Limited and fees for 2016. its parent entity, which he originally acquired at the time of the Goldman Sachs investment in the business in January 2014.
These interests may be Role Fee per annum redeemed in cash or, in certain circumstances, as ordinary shares in the Company.
Chairman basic fee 150,000 2 E dward Fitzmaurice has no direct interest in the share capital of the Non-Executive Director basic fee 50,000 Company.
He is the settlor of a Jersey discretionary trust which is the 100% owner of Ted Limited, a company incorporated and managed in Jersey, which Additional fees is one of the Founder Shareholders and which has an indirect interest in the Chairman of the Nomination Committee 10,000 Company through its interest in Hastings Investco Limited.
Ted Limited has no direct interest in the share capital of the Company.
Senior Independent Director 15,000 3 E xcluding Admission Awards granted at the time of Admission.
Further details Chairman of the Audit Committee 15,000 of these awards can be found on page 72 of this report.
Chairman of the Risk Committee 10,000 4 T hese scheme interests reflect interests under the legacy MIP, as described on page 73 of this report.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15,000 There were no changes in the Directors direct beneficial It is noted that Pierre Lefevre is entitled to receive a total interests in shares between 31 December 2015 and 14 March annual fee of 80,000, comprising 45,000 for his duties as 2016 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication Non-Executive Director, and chairman of the Risk Committee, of this report.
No Director has a non-beneficial interest in the of Advantage Insurance Company Limited and 35,000 for his shares of the Company.
role as Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Hastings Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate governance 75 Other information Relative importance of spend on pay Payments to former Directors The following table illustrates total remuneration for all employees in the Group compared to distributions There were no payments to former Directors made in the year.
to shareholders since Admission of the Company to 31December 2015.
As the Company only listed in October Payments for loss of office 2015, there is no comparative information for the prior year.
There were no payments for loss of office in the year.
2015 tSR chart Shareholder distributions The graph below shows the TSR of the Company and the dividends and share buy backs 14,458,788 UK FTSE 250 index since Admission of the Company to Total employee expenditure 61,930,212 31December 2015.
The FTSE 250 index was selected on the basis that the Company is a member of the FTSE 250 in the UK.
advice and support provided to the Remuneration committee 120 Since the formation of the current Remuneration Committee, 110 membership has remained unchanged and Malcolm LeMay, Thomas Colraine, Mike Fairey, Edward Fitzmaurice and Sumit 100 Rajpal continue to serve.
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Committee to provide external advice.
Its total fees for advice 90 provided to the Remuneration Committee were 14,000.
Deloitte has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration 80 Consultants Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting during the year.
The Committee is Oct 2015 Nov 2015 Dec 2015 comfortable that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that provides remuneration advice to the Committee Hastings Group Holdings plc FTSE 250 does not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
During the year, Deloitte also provided Historical ceO pay unrelated tax and consultancy services to the Group.
The Chief Given that the Company has only been publicly listed since Executive Officer, HR Director and Head of Reward attended 15October 2015, the following sets out information regarding Committee meetings by invitation in order to support the the Chief Executive Officers historic pay since Admission: discussion of the agenda items as appropriate.
The Company Secretary or in his absence, the Deputy Company Secretary 2015 act as the Committees secretary.
No individual participates Single figure of remuneration 1,830,477 in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Annual bonus payout as a % of maximum opportunity 44% The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by Long-term incentive payout as a % of maximum 1 opportunity N A 1 A s noted above, no long-term incentive awards under the LTIP have yet been Malcolm le May granted to Executive Directors.
The award included in the single figure table above represents Admission Awards granted to Executive Directors.
Chairman 14 March 2016 Percentage change in ceO remuneration This section is not applicable as the Company only listed in October 2015 and as such there is no prior year comparator which can be shown.
