Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy The policy has been amended to take into account the Directors remuneration new PRA Remuneration Rules, EBA guidelines and policy shareholder feedback.
We will seek approval at the Annual General Meeting on 22 April 2016 and if approved, the Our new remuneration policy for executive and nonpolicy is intended to apply immediately, for three years executive Directors is subject to shareholder approval.
Material factors taken into account when setting remuneration policy The Committee takes into account a variety of factors when determining the remuneration policy for Directors.
Group strategy The Group strategic objectives are the key drivers for measuring performance and form the basis of the and objectives annual scorecard and long term incentive scorecard for our executive Directors.
The targets set for the scorecards are aligned to the strategic targets of the Group.
Pay and employment In considering individual awards, a comparison of the pay and employment conditions of our employees conditions within and senior executives is considered by the Committee.
the Group The Group Head of Performance and Reward presents proposals for remuneration for the wider employee population and consults with the Committee on the extent to which the different elements of remuneration are provided to other employees.
Feedback from employee engagement surveys and HSBC Exchange meetings are taken into account in determining the Groups remuneration policy.
Given the size of the Groups employee base and its geographical presence, the Committee did not consider it appropriate to consult all employees on the Directors remuneration policy.
Reinforcing the The remuneration policy is designed to reinforce the Groups values and behaviours and to drive sustainable Groups values performance.
The Committee receives input from the Group Risk Committee, the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and the Conduct and Values Committee to ensure such behaviours are taken into account.
Regulation There is still a wide divergence in local regulations governing remuneration structures globally.
This presents significant challenges to HSBC, which operates in over 70 countries worldwide.
In order to deliver long-term sustainable performance, it is important to have market-competitive remuneration which is broadly equivalent across geographical boundaries in order to attract, motivate and retain talented and committed employees around the world.
We aim to ensure that our remuneration policy is aligned with regulatory practices and the interests of shareholders.
HSBC is fully compliant with the FSB, FCA, PRA, EBA and HKMA principles and rules on remuneration which apply at the date of this report.
Comparator group The Committee considers market data for executive Directors remuneration packages from a defined remuneration comparator group: Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Santander, Standard Chartered and UBS.
These ten global financial services companies were selected for 2015 on the basis of their business coverage, size and international scope, and are subject to annual review for continuing relevance.
The Committee can also review other companies where relevant in determining the remuneration policy.
Shareholder views The Chairman of the Committee, the Group Head of Performance and Reward and the Group Company Secretary meet with key institutional shareholders and other representative bodies to discuss our remuneration policy design, impact of regulatory changes and any key changes introduced.
We consider these meetings important to gather views on our current and developing remuneration practices to ensure that our reward strategy continues to be aligned with the long-term interests of our shareholders.
We also took on board views expressed by our shareholders on our remuneration policy at previous annual general meetings.
We have changed our approach on the provision of cash in lieu of pension and long-term incentive awards as a result.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 288 EXTERNAL FACTORS INTERNAL FACTORS and risk outcomes.
For our most senior employees, the Remuneration policy executive Directors majority of their reward is deferred, subject to malus, Our remuneration policy supports the achievement of our and clawback.
strategic objectives through balancing reward for both The policy will apply to all executive Directors with the short-term and long-term sustainable performance.
exception of Douglas Flint, who is not eligible for a fixed Our strategy is designed to reward success, and to align pay allowance or variable pay awards.
employees remuneration with our Values risk framework Remuneration policy executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fixed pay These elements of remuneration are not subject to performance metrics.
Base salary To attract and retain key Base salary reflects the individuals role, The annual base salary for each executive Director is set talent by being market experience and responsibility.
The Committee out in the table on page 315. competitive and rewarding reviews and approves changes within the Other than in exceptional circumstances, the base salary on-going contribution to context of local requirements and market for the current executive Directors will not increase by role.
more than 15% above the current levels during the Base salaries are benchmarked on an annual duration of this policy.
basis against relevant comparator groups as set out on page 288.
Base salaries may be reviewed more frequently at the discretion of the Committee.
Fixed pay allowance FPA To deliver fixed pay required Fixed pay allowances are non-pensionable and Fixed pay allowances are determined based on the role to reflect the role, skills, will be granted in shares that vest immediately and responsibility of each individual.
and experience of the on a quarterly basis or at any other frequency The fixed pay allowance for the duration of this policy Directors and to maintain that the Committee deems appropriate.
will be capped at 150% of base salary levels at the start a competitive total These shares net of shares sold to cover any of this policy.
remuneration package for income tax and social security will be subject the retention of key talent.
Shares will be released annually on a pro rata basis over five years, starting from the March immediately following the end of the financial year in which the shares are granted in respect of.
Dividends will be paid on the vested shares held during the retention period.
The Committee retains the discretion to pay the fixed pay allowance in cash if required to do so by regulation.
Cash in lieu of pension To attract and retain key Directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of a 30% of base salary.
talent by being market pension entitlement.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 289 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Variable pay Adhering to the HSBC Values is a prerequisite to be considered for any variable pay.
The HSBC Values are key to running the bank on a sound, sustainable basis.
Executive Directors have an HSBC Values rating that is considered by the Committee following the financial year end.
Annual incentive To drive and reward Awards are discretionary and are The maximum opportunity for Performance is measured against performance against annual generally delivered in the form of annual incentive award is up to an annual scorecard, based on financial, non-financial and shares.
targets set for financial outcomes personal objectives which and non-financial outcomes On vesting, the shares net of The Committee will assess and are consistent with the including risk-related measures shares sold to cover any income judge performance against the strategy and align to and personal objectives.
The tax and social security will be targets set to determine the level shareholder interests.
subject to a minimum retention of achievement.
Examples of the types of period of at least six months.
The overall payout of the annual measures are shown on Awards are subject to clawback incentive could be between 0% page 294. for a period of seven years from and 100% of the maximum.
The financial measures will have the date of award.
This may be 25% of the maximum award a weighting of 60% for the Group extended to ten years in the opportunity will vest at threshold CEO, 50% for the Group Chief event of an ongoing internal performance and up to 50% Financial Officer and 25% for the regulatory investigation at the will vest for target performance.
end of the seven-year period.
100% of the award will pay out The Committee has the The Committee retains the for maximum performance.
discretion to: discretion to: The Committee can reduce to change the overall weighting apply a longer retention zero if appropriate the annual of the financial and nonperiod: incentive payout based on the financial measures: outcome of the performance grant the award partially in measures, if it considers that vary the measures and their cash, as long as at least 50% of the payout determined does respective weightings within the award is in shares: and not appropriately reflect the each category.
The specific defer a portion of the awards, overall position and performance performance measures will be which will be subject to malus of the Company during the disclosed in the Annual report during the deferral period.
on remuneration for the Dividend equivalents will be paid relevant year: and on the vested deferred shares, make adjustments to equal to the dividends paid or performance targets to reflect payable between the grant and significant one-off items which vesting date.
These will normally occur during the be paid in the form of additional, measurement period.
If not permissible clear disclosure of any such under regulatory requirements, adjustments will be made the number of shares to be within the Annual report on awarded may be based on a remuneration at the end of share price discounted based on the performance year, subject a historical dividend yield.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 290 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long-term incentive LTI To incentivise sustainable Awards are discretionary and The maximum opportunity for The Committee will take into long-term performance are awarded in shares under LTI award is up to 320% of base consideration prior performance and long-term alignment the HSBC Share Plan 2011, salary.
when assessing the value of the with shareholder interests.
subject to a forward-looking LTI grant.
The Committee will assess and three-year performance period judge performance against the Forward-looking performance is from the start of the financial targets set to determine the measured against a long-term year in which the awards are level of achievement.
outcomes 60% weighting and The overall payout level could At the end of the performance non-financial outcome, including be between 0% and 100% of the period, the performance risk and strategy-related maximum.
outcomes will be used to assess measures 40% weighting.
25% of the maximum award what percentage of the awards Relative Total Shareholder opportunity will vest at threshold will vest.
These awards will vest Return TSR will have a performance and up to 50% in five equal instalments with weighting of one-third of the will vest for target performance.
the first vesting on or around the total financial measures.
One-third 100% of the award will vest for third anniversary of the grant will be based on achieving return maximum performance.
and the last instalment vesting on equity targets and one-third The Committee can reduce to on or around the seventh will be based on the attainment zero if appropriate the LTI anniversary of the grant date.
payout based on the outcome This is based on the PRAs Performance targets are set of the performance measures, requirements.
annually for each three-year if it considers that the payout On each vesting, the shares net cycle by the Committee.
determined does not of shares sold to cover any appropriately reflect the overall The Committee has the income tax and social security position and performance of discretion to: will be subject to a minimum the Company during the change the overall weighting retention period of six months performance period.
of the financial and nonif required by regulators.
financial measures: Awards are discretionary and vary the measures and their are subject to malus during the respective weightings within vesting period and clawback for each category.
The specific a period of seven to ten years performance measures will be from the date of award.
disclosed in the Annual report Dividend equivalents will be paid on remuneration for the on the vested deferred shares, relevant year: and equal to the dividends paid or make adjustments to payable between the grant and performance targets to vesting date.
These will normally reflect significant one-off be paid in the form of additional, items which occur during the i. e. scrip, shares.
If not permissible measurement period.
Full and under regulatory requirements, clear disclosure of any such the number of shares to be adjustments will be made awarded may be based on a within the Annual report on share price discounted based on remuneration, subject to a historical dividend yield.
The Committee may adjust and amend awards in accordance with the rules of the HSBC Share Plan 2011.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 291 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Other These elements are not subject to performance metrics.
Benefits To provide benefits in Benefits take account of local market practice and include, Determined by the nature of the benefit accordance with local but are not restricted to, the provision of medical insurance, provided.
The benefit amount will be market practice.
income protection insurance, health assessment, life disclosed in the Single Figure Table of assurance, club membership, tax return assistance, car Remuneration for the relevant year.
benefit including any tax due on the benefit and travel assistance.
Stuart Gulliver is also provided with accommodation and car benefit in Hong Kong.
HSBC pay any tax due on this benefit.
Additional benefits may also be provided where an executive is relocated or spends a substantial proportion of his her time in more than one jurisdiction based on business needs.
Such benefits could include, but are not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities and any tax and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits.
Shareholding guidelines To ensure appropriate Executive Directors and other senior executives are subject N A to shareholding guidelines.
alignment with the interest of our The shareholding guidelines as a percentage of base salary shareholders.
are: Group Chairman: 100% Group CEO: 400% Group Finance Director: 300% Group CRO: 300% Individuals are given five years from 2014 or if later their appointment to build up the recommended levels of shareholding.
The shareholding guideline does not count unvested share-based incentives.
The Committee reviews compliance with the shareholding guidelines.
The Committee has full discretion in determining any penalties in cases of non-compliance, which could include a reduction of future awards and or an increase in the proportion of the annual variable pay that is deferred into shares.
HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy and executive Directors are required to certify each year that they have not entered into any personal hedging strategies in relation to their holdings of HSBC shares.
All employee share plans To promote share Executive Directors are also entitled to participate in all The number of options determined by ownership by all employee share plans, such as the HSBC Sharesave, on the maximum savings set by HM Revenue and employees.
same basis as all other employees.
Under the Sharesave, executive Directors can make monthly savings over a period of three or five years towards the grant of an option over HSBC shares.
The option price can be at a discount, currently of up to 20%, on the share price at the start of the savings period.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 292 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply: 2011 2015 Group Vesting of outstanding deferred Award levels have already been The vesting of these awards is Performance Share Plan cash and share-based awards determined based on the subject to a service condition.
GPSP, deferred cash granted in prior years, including outcome of relevant performance In respect of performance year and share awards.
This includes deferred measures in the relevant prior 2012, vesting of the deferred shares and GPSP awards granted year.
shares portion of the annual under the HSBC Share Plan 2011 incentive awards granted in and HSBC Share Plan, which will March 2013 is subject to continue to form part of the satisfactory conclusion of the remuneration policy until Deferred Prosecution Agreement vesting.
with the US Department of The awards normally vest over a Justice US DPA.
No further period of up to five years from performance conditions apply the date of grant.
On vesting, for any other awards.
shares net of any shares sold The US DPA condition ends on to cover income tax and social the fifth anniversary of the award security will be subject to the date unless it is extended or applicable retention period set otherwise continues beyond that out at the time of the award.
date, in which case the awards Dividend equivalents will be paid will vest on the date on which on the vested shares.
A notional the US DPA expires and return will be paid for vested otherwise ceases to operate.
The Committee reserves the right to make any Differences in policy applied to employees generally remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, The following table illustrates the differences in policy notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set that apply to different groups of employees.
For further out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: details, see Remuneration policy for all employees on i before the policy set out above, or any previous policy pages 300 to 301. came into effect: Elements of remuneration applied to employees ii at a time where a previous policy, approved by Group shareholders, was in place provided the payment is Executive Managing Other in line with the terms of that policy: or Directors Directors Employees iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Base salary Fixed pay allowance director of the Company and the payment was not in Annual incentive consideration for the individual becoming a Director GPSP long-term incentive of the Company.
Benefits and pension HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 293 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy Release profile of total compensation The following chart provides an illustrative release profile of target performance total compensation for the Group CEO based on the new remuneration policy.
Illustration of release profile at target total compensation 100% 6% 6% 6% 11% 11% 5% 5% 26% 25% 0% 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Base salary Pension Annual incentive Fixed pay allowance LTI Choice of performance measures and targets including the economic environment, market conditions and expectations, the Groups strategic actions and risk The performance measures were selected as they reflect appetite.
the Groups financial targets and strategy.
The measures were determined in consultation with major shareholders.
Further details of the measures and targets under the The targets take into account a number of factors, policy are in the tables below.
Performance measures for annual incentive Global Standards, including risk Financial measures and compliance Personal objectives Will be aligned to achievement of our Drive implementation of our Global Progress made on delivering key nonannual operating plan targets and linked Standards and risk and compliance policies.
financial milestones aligned to the Groups to the key Groups key strategic actions.
strategic actions, leadership and people Measures may include but are not limited metrics.
Measures may include but are not limited to: to: progress and embedding of anti-money profit before tax: laundering and sanctions policies: reduction of Group risk-weighted assets implementation of enhanced customer RWAs : due diligence programmes worldwide: and delivery of cost savings: and implementation and embedding of strategic growth.
Targets for threshold and maximum The targets set will be linked to milestones vesting will be based on various factors agreed with the Monitor, regulators and including each years annual operating overall Group objectives.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 294 Performance measures for long-term incentives Global Standards, including risk Financial measures and compliance Strategy Will be strongly aligned to the business Will be used in line with the Monitors Will drive delivery of long-term Group strategy and based on primary long-term guidance and as part of regulatory strategic actions.
requirement to use non-financial measures as part of a balanced scorecard.
Measures may include but are not limited to: Measures may include but are not limited to: return on equity: completion of US DPA commitments: cost efficiency jaws : and management of key risks: and relative TSR against a global financial services peer group.
Targets set for threshold and maximum Targets set will be based on achievement vesting will be based on long-term financial of key long-term commitments and goals.
achievement of a successful Global Standards roll-out.
Changes in remuneration policy for 2016 The following table provides a summary of key changes to the remuneration policy for 2016.
Remuneration component Policy changes Rationale for change Base salary No change N A Fixed pay allowance Released pro rata over a period of five years.
Retention period changed to be consistent with market practice and to reflect longer deferral requirements.
Cash in lieu of pension Maximum reduced from 50% of base salary to Feedback from shareholders that cash in lieu of 30% of base salary.
pension was high relative to large FTSE companies.
Annual incentive Maximum is 215% of base salary.
The Committee considered it appropriate to have the annual incentive subject to a retention Delivered 100% in shares, subject to a retention period, to align with the overall variable pay period.
structure of the PRA Remuneration Rules and to take into account the overall time horizons of the total remuneration package of the executive Directors.
Long-term incentive Maximum is 320% of base salary.
Shareholder feedback on preference to have a more conventional long-term incentive structure, Prior performance will be taken into consideration with a forward-looking performance period in when assessing the value of the grant.
Performance targets set annually for each threeLonger deferral period required under the PRA year forward-looking performance period.
Introduction of relative TSR as a performance measure.
Awards to vest, subject to the outcome of the performance conditions at the end of the threeyear performance period, in equal instalments between the third and seventh anniversary of the grant date.
A retention period may be applied to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 295 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy Remuneration scenarios Other directorships For the proposed new remuneration policy, the total Executive Directors may accept appointments as nonremuneration opportunity for target and maximum executive directors of companies which are not part performance has been reduced for executive Directors.
of HSBC if so authorised by either the Board or the Nomination Committee.
The following charts show how the total value of remuneration excluding benefits and its composition When considering a request to accept a non-executive would vary under different performance scenarios for appointment, the Board or the Nomination Committee will executive Directors.
Previous models the policy in place take into account, amongst other things, the expected time prior to shareholder approval in 2014.
Current models commitment associated with the proposed appointment.
the policy approved at the 2014 AGM.
New models the The time commitment for external appointments is also proposed policy, which will be effective from the date of routinely reviewed to ensure that they will not compromise the 2016 AGM, subject to shareholders approval.
Target the Directors commitment to HSBC.
The Directors is set at 50% of maximum variable pay.
biographies as set out on pages 294 to 254 includes those directorships provided for under CRD IV.
There is no chart for Douglas Flint, who is not eligible for variable pay awards.
Any remuneration receivable in respect of an external appointment of an executive Director is normally paid to Stuart Gulliver the Group, unless otherwise approved by the Nomination Amounts in 000 Committee or the Board.
13,125 Approach to recruitment remuneration 10,725 9,975 executive Directors 57% On the recruitment or appointment of a new executive 45% 7,500 40% 7,150 6,650 Director, the Committee would adhere to the following 33% principles: 50% 30% 22% 27% 3,575 17% 20% remuneration packages should be in line with the 3,325 29% 25% approved policy for executive Directors: 1,875 100% 50% 33% 100% 50% 33% 100% 25% 14% remuneration packages must meet any applicable Previous Current New Previous Current New Previous Current New local regulatory requirements: and Minimum Target Maximum where necessary, compensation may be provided in respect of forfeiture of awards from an existing Iain Mackay Amounts in 000 employer buyout awards.
7,350 Outlined in the following table are all components that 6,000 5,580 would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration 57% package of a new executive Director and, for each, the 4,200 45% 4,000 40% 3,720 approach that would be adopted.
33% 50% 30% 22% 27% 2,000 1,860 17% 20% 29% In the case of an internal appointment, any variable 1,050 25% 100% 50% 33% 100% 50% 33% element awarded in respect of the prior role may be 100% 25% 14% allowed to pay out according to its terms on grant.
Previous Current New Previous Current New Previous Current New Minimum Target Maximum Marc Moses Amounts in 000 7,350 6,000 5,580 57% 4,200 45% 4,000 40% 3,720 33% 30% 50% 22% 27% 2,000 1,860 17% 20% 29% 25% 1,050 100% 50% 33% 100% 50% 33% 100% 25% 14% Previous Current New Previous Current New Previous Current New Minimum Target Maximum Fixed pay Annual incentive GPSP LTI HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 296 Components of remuneration package of a new executive Director Component Approach taken to each component of remuneration Fixed pay Base salary and fixed pay allowance to reflect the individuals role, experience and responsibility and be set in the context of market practice.
Pension in line with policy as set out in the Remuneration policy table on page 289.
Benefits Benefits to be provided will be dependent on circumstances but in line with Group policy and the Remuneration policy table, including the global mobility policy, where applicable, and local regulations.
Annual incentive New joiners will be eligible to be considered for an annual incentive award as set out in the Remuneration policy table on page 290.
Guaranteed bonuses are only permitted by exception and must be limited to the first year of service, subject to the Group Deferral Policy and performance requirements.
Long-term incentive May be considered for LTI award in year as set out in the Remuneration policy table on page 291.
Buyout May be offered if the individual holds any outstanding unvested awards which are forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.
Group buyout policy is in line with the PRA Remuneration Rules which states that both the terms and amount of any replacement awards will not be more generous than the award forfeited on departure from the former employer.
Delivered as HSBC deferred shares with vesting and retention periods to match the terms of forfeited awards with previous employer as closely as possible, subject to proof of forfeiture and other relevant documentation.
Where the time to vesting is less than 60 days, cash or deferred cash may be awarded for administrative purposes.
Where appropriate, the Committee retains the discretion to utilise the provisions provided in the Listing Rules for the purpose of making buy-out awards.
Service contracts and policy on payments on loss of Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each of office executive Directors the executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Consistent with the best Our policy is to employ executive Directors on service interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to minimise agreements with 12 months notice period.
Directors may be eligible for a Service contracts payment in relation to statutory rights.
Contract date Notice period The following table sets out the basis on which payments rolling Director & HSBC on loss of office may be made.
Other than as set out in the Director table, there are no further obligations which could give rise Douglas Flint 14 February 2011 12 months to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office: Stuart Gulliver 10 February 2011 12 months Iain Mackay 4 February 2011 12 months Marc Moses 27 November 2014 12 months HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 297 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors remuneration policy Payments on loss of office Component of remuneration Approach taken Fixed pay and benefits Executive Directors may be entitled to payments in lieu of: notice, which shall consist of base salary, pension entitlements and other contractual benefits, or an amount in lieu of: and or accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
Annual incentives and In exceptional circumstances as determined by the Committee, the executive Director may be eligible for long-term incentives annual incentives and long-term incentives based on the time worked in the performance year and on the individual executive Directors contribution.
Unvested deferred awards All unvested awards will be forfeited when an executive Director ceases employment voluntarily and is not deemed a good leaver.
An executive Director may be considered a good leaver at the discretion of the Committee and the following will apply: unvested awards will continue to vest in line with the applicable vesting dates, subject to the original performance conditions, the share plan rules, malus and clawback provisions: or vested shares, subject to retention, will be released to the executive Director on cessation of employment.
In the event of death unvested awards will vest and will be released to the executive Directors estate as soon as practicable.
In respect of outstanding unvested awards, for an individual to be considered as a good leaver, the Committee needs to be satisfied that the executive has no current or future intention at the date of leaving HSBC of being employed by any competitor financial services firm.
The Committee determines the list of competitor firms and length of time this restriction applies.
If the Committee becomes aware of any evidence to the contrary before vesting, the award will lapse.
If the executive Director is not deemed a good leaver for purposes of the GPSP, vested shares, subject to retention, will be released to the executive Director in three equal tranches on each of the first, second and third anniversary of cessation of employment.
Repatriation Where an executive Director has been relocated as part of their employment, the Committee retains the discretion to pay the repatriation costs.
This may include, but are not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities and any tax and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits.
Post-departure benefits Applicable for the duration of the clawback period, up to a maximum of seven years from date of departure for those who depart under good leaver provisions under the HSBC Share Plan and subject to non-compete provisions, in accordance with the terms of the policy.
Benefits may include medical coverage, tax return preparation assistance and legal expenses for the duration of the clawback period.
The Committee also has the discretion to extend the post-departure benefit of medical coverage to former executive Directors, up to a maximum of seven years from their date of departure.
Legal claims The Committee retains the discretion to make payments including professional and outplacement fees to mitigate against legal claims, subject to any such payments being made in accordance with the terms of an appropriate agreement waiving all claims against the Group.
Change of control In the event of a change of control, outstanding awards will be treated in line with the provisions set out in the respective plan rules.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 298 Remuneration policy non-executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees The fee levels payable reflect the time The policy for non-executive Directors is to pay: The Board will review the amount commitment and responsibilities of a nonof each component of fees base fees: and executive Director of HSBC Holdings.
periodically to assess whether, further fees for additional Board duties such as individually and in aggregate, chairmanship, membership of a committee, or they remain competitive and acting as the senior independent Director or appropriate in light of changes in deputy Chairman acting as one.
roles, responsibilities, and or time Fees are paid in cash.
The Board retains the discretion commitment of the non-executive to pay in shares rather than cash where appropriate.
Directors and to ensure that Any non-executive Chairman would be paid a fixed individuals of the appropriate annual fee for all Board responsibilities based on their calibre are able to be retained experience and the time commitments expected for or appointed.
the role, together with such other benefits as the Other than in exceptional Committee may in its absolute discretion determine.
circumstances, fees will not Any newly appointed non-executive Director would be increase by more than 20% above paid in line with the policy on a time apportioned basis the current fee levels during the in the first year as necessary.
No sign-on payments are duration of this policy.
The Board excluding the non-executive Directors has discretion to approve changes to the fees.
The Board may also introduce any new component of fee for non-executive Directors subject to the principles, parameters and other requirements set out in this remuneration policy.
Certain non-executive Directors may be entitled to receive fees for their services as directors of subsidiary companies of HSBC Holdings plc.
Such additional remuneration is determined by the board of directors of each relevant subsidiary within a framework set by the Group Remuneration Committee.
Expenses Reimbursed for any expenses incurred in performing their role and any related tax cost on such reimbursement.
Shareholding guidelines To ensure appropriate alignment with the interests of our shareholders, non-executive Directors, individually or with their connected persons, are expected to satisfy a shareholding guideline of 15,000 shares within five years from 2014 or if later their appointment.
The Committee reviews compliance with the guidelines annually.
The Committee has full discretion in determining any consequences in cases of non-compliance.
Service contracts and policy on payments on loss of Non-executive Directors current terms of appointment office non-executive Directors will expire as follows: Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms in 2016, Rona Fairhead and Sir Simon Robertson, who not exceeding three years, which may be renewed subject are not seeking reappointment: to their re-election by shareholders at annual general in 2017, Kathleen Casey, Laura Cha, Lord Evans of meetings.
Non-executive Directors do not have service Weardale, Sam Laidlaw and Jonathan Symonds: contracts, but are bound by letters of appointment issued for and on behalf of HSBC Holdings plc.
Other than as set in 2018, Phillip Ameen, Joachim Faber, John Lipsky, out above, there are no obligations in the non-executive Rachel Lomax and Heidi Miller: and Directors letters of appointment which could give rise in 2019, Henri fide Castries, Irene Lee, Pauline van der to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 299 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
