Governance and directors report Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement Achieving the right balance of short and longer-term remuneration to evolve the culture and deliver the right performance.
Robert Standing Chairman, Remuneration Committee Dear shareholder, As we worked through this process we also focused on developing I am pleased to present the directors remuneration report for a model that could be adapted easily to reward a much wider 2014 15 recommending our new remuneration policy and population than just the executive directors, providing alignment explaining in our report on remuneration how we implemented deep into the organisation.
Our new arrangements are set out in detail in the policy report The committees primary focus is to ensure that ICAPs section, but to summarise: remuneration policies and practices are fully aligned with the rebalancing fixed and variable pay and short and longer-term Groups strategy, that they reinforce and contribute to evolving the remuneration: culture and meet both regulatory and shareholder expectations.
changing business focus reflected in a much greater element In my 2013 14 report I signalled that the Remuneration of longer-term, at risk, share awards: Committee planned to undertake a review of the remuneration arrangements for executive directors, recognising that, while increased emphasis on strategic objectives, including talent the current policy has served us well for a number of years, our management, culture and governance: strategy, regulatory requirements and shareholder expectations removal of annual bonus pool and share matching plan, replaced have changed significantly.
by maximum individual bonuses and PSP awards: and The most significant concern was that the mix of fixed and variable enhanced malus and clawback provisions over a pay and short and long-term pay was aligned neither to the longer timeframe.
business nor to external expectations, particularly with the significant impact that European directives have on rebalancing In terms of transition, in 2014 15 annual bonuses were determined in favour of fixed pay in order to discourage excessive risk taking.
under the existing policy, with PSP awards to be granted in 2015 Having recognised this concern, the next challenge was to set under the new policy, subject to approval by shareholders.
the right mix of salary, annual bonus and longer-term awards to We consulted with our key shareholders and UK institutional result in a material reduction in maximum pay and a significant investor bodies as part of the review of our remuneration increase in longer-term share awards with stretching arrangements and are grateful to them for their time and the performance conditions.
insights we gained through this dialogue, resulting in a number Market practice helped inform our decision making, in particular of changes to our original proposals, particularly with regard to in establishing realistic salary levels, given that our previous policy key performance measures.
was not to increase the Group Chief Executive Officers salary but Moving on to remuneration decisions for the financial year, rather drive his reward primarily through annual profit performance.
there were some significant achievements during the year.
We recognise that the new salary for Michael Spencer is, in both absolute and percentage terms, very much higher than before.
The ICAP share price performed strongly both in absolute terms This is balanced, however, by a modest pension provision, and relative to our peers.
Changes that will positively impact significant decreases in maximum opportunity and maximum our future success included the restructure of Global Broking, cash, and a material increase in longer-term, at risk, share awards.
reorganisation of the electronic businesses, new product launches and countering some competitive challenge.
72 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Although Global Brokings trading operating profit is down 29% due to changing market conditions, we have reacted successfully through an extensive cost saving exercise within this division and continued development across the rest of the Group such that, overall, we are in a strong position to move forward, even though Group trading operating profit for 2014 15 is 13% down.
A much increased focus on strategic measures helped to drive major positive changes in our brand and culture.
Accordingly achievement of the executive directors against strategic objectives was assessed at 85% of maximum.
The BSMP 2012 matching award did not vest as it failed to meet the performance condition as a result of challenging trading conditions.
The shape of the board changed during the year with the departure of Iain Torrens in December 2014 and John Nixon in March 2015.
A new Group Finance Director, Stuart Bridges, has been appointed to replace Iain and will join us in September.
Full details on the leaving arrangements for Iain Torrens and John Nixon and the remuneration structure for our new Group Finance Director, Stuart Bridges, can be found on page 84.
Both exit and joining arrangements are in line with our remuneration policy.
Regulation will continue to evolve and we have worked towards remuneration arrangements which can be adapted to comply with new rules.
The Company will continue to monitor business practice and regulatory developments, including the European Banking Authority consultation paper requirements released on 4 March 2015, and any other future regulatory changes.
The directors remuneration policy will again be put to a binding vote and the remuneration report will be put to an advisory vote at the 2015 annual general meeting.
We look forward to receiving your support for both of these resolutions.
Robert Standing Chairman, Remuneration Committee 19 May 2015 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 73 Governance and directors report Remuneration policy report The following sections of this report set out our directors shareholder feedback, particularly in respect of the previously remuneration policy the policy, which will be put to shareholders uncapped individual bonus opportunity and the operation of for their approval at the 2015 annual general meeting in a bonus share matching plan: and accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006. our desire to provide increased transparency and disclosure In last years directors remuneration report, we indicated that of individual remuneration outcomes.
we would undertake a full review of our executive director We believe the new arrangements promote our reward philosophy remuneration policy.
and approach to remuneration which is in line with our business and As outlined in the Remuneration Committees Chairmans is aligned with shareholder interests.
statement, we have developed a revised framework to reflect: Shareholders will note that no changes have been made to the our changing business, with increased focus on electronic levels and operation of pension and benefits which remain the execution and information services: same as approved by shareholders last year.
the need to drive long-term performance and promote the If approved, the policy will be effective from the beginning of the right culture and conduct: 2015 16 financial year and will be effective for three years, or until another remuneration policy is approved by shareholders.
regulatory and corporate governance developments, including rebalancing fixed and variable pay and the strengthening of malus clawback: our desire to have greater alignment of board and below board remuneration and move to a more market aligned structure: Future policy table for executive directors The table below summarises the policy in respect of each component of remuneration for executive directors.
Purpose and link to Element of pay ICAPs strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Salary Reflects individual role Salaries are reviewed annually in Maximum levels of salary have There are no specific and experience.
the context of total remuneration not been set by the committee performance conditions attached opportunity.
Factors considered but executive director salary to salary increases, although Set at a level to attract include: increases will normally be in line overall performance of the the right talent into the with the wider employee individual and the company will Group to deliver the size and scope of individual population.
be one of the considerations in business strategy.
Higher increases than the skills, experience and average for the wider employee performance: population may be awarded in typical salary levels for exceptional circumstances, at the comparable roles within Remuneration Committees appropriate pay comparators: discretion, including for a and significant increase in scope and reward levels and structure or responsibility of the individuals below the board.
role, rebalancing of fixed and variable pay or to take into Any increase usually takes effect account any future regulatory from 1 April.
may award increases at any other time, for example where there Where an executive director has is a significant change in the been appointed to the board at a role or responsibilities of the lower than typical salary, larger executive director.
increases may be awarded as they develop in the role.
Pension Element of remuneration Directors are normally enrolled in The maximum pension None.
to assist employees with the relevant pension plan if any contribution is equivalent to 5% retirement planning.
for senior managers in their of salary.
Directors may opt out country of residence.
of the defined contribution plan and instead receive an equivalent cash allowance.
A bonus sacrifice arrangement is also offered.
Individual arrangements are shown on page 80.
74 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Future policy table for executive directors continued Purpose and link to Element of pay ICAPs strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Benefits Element of remuneration to Executive directors are eligible to Benefits are generally set taking None.
provide a competitive and receive certain benefits that vary into account affordability and cost-effective benefits by director and may include but local market practice for package.
are not limited to medical, life comparable roles.
insurance, car and travel benefits The committee has not set a reflecting the directors location maximum limit for benefits.
The benefit policy and levels The current Group Chief are kept under review and the Executive Officer has the use of a committee may remove benefits driver.
In order to recognise the that executive directors receive unique circumstances of the role or introduce other benefits if it and the travel requirements considers it appropriate.
involved, in certain circumstances our executive directors may also be accompanied by their spouse partner on business trips.
This will only be where there is a genuine business reason.
The value of actual benefits received is shown on page 81.
Where executive directors are required to relocate or complete an international assignment, or perform duties outside their home location, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional expatriate benefits, if considered appropriate, or vary benefits according to local practice.
This may include cover for additional taxation and support with tax reporting.
Annual bonus and The annual bonus plan The level of award is determined The maximum annual bonus At least 70% of the annual bonus DSBP incentivises executive by the committee based on opportunity is 300% of salary.
opportunity is assessed against directors to achieve the performance against the relevant financial measures.
Companys key financial performance criteria.
The balance will be subject to metrics and strategic Awards are delivered in a strategic and or individual objectives, while also combination of cash and shares, objectives.
aligning their interests with with at least 50% deferred for at The committee retains the right those of shareholders.
least three years into ICAP shares to adjust the balance of the Deferral of a significant under the DSBP.
A further measures on an annual basis.
proportion of the bonus six-month retention period may The financial element, however, into shares helps to align also be applied on awards under will always have a greater the long-term interests of the DSBP.
weighting than the strategic executives with those of The committee may award individual element.
dividend equivalents in respect Payouts will range from 0 of dividends declared over the 100% of the maximum, with deferral period.
Dividend 50% of the maximum payable equivalent payments are made for achieving on-target at the end of the deferral period performance.
The committee may apply malus or clawback to annual bonus awards in certain exceptional circumstances.
Further details on malus and clawback provisions are provided in the notes to the table.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 75 Governance and directors report Remuneration policy report continued Purpose and link to Element of pay ICAPs strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance Share ICAPs long-term incentive Annual award of ICAP shares The maximum PSP opportunity is Performance measures will Plan PSP plan is to reward sustained subject to performance 300% of salary.
include the Companys financial Company performance and conditions over a period performance and a share the creation of shareholder of at least three years.
price-based measure, which value over time.
will usually be equally weighted.
An additional holding period These measures are reviewed of at least two years will apply regularly to ensure that they following vesting.
remain appropriate to business Participants may receive a strategy, are sufficiently payment equivalent to the value challenging and appropriate for of dividends paid on any vested incentivising executive directors.
shares when the participant In future, the committee may receives those shares at the end decide that it is appropriate to of the holding period.
Payment introduce additional measures of dividend equivalents may such as ICAPs key long-term be in either cash or shares.
strategic objectives, however, The committee may apply malus in any case, at least 80% of the or clawback to PSP awards.
award will continue to be based Further details on malus and on financial and share price clawback provisions are provided based measures.
Threshold performance results in 25% vesting, rising to full vesting for maximum performance.
Shareholding To create alignment Executive directors are required to build up over time, and thereafter maintain, a holding in the requirement with shareholders by Companys shares.
The minimum shareholding requirement for the Group Chief Executive Officer encouraging longer-term is 500% of base salary and for the other executive directors is 300% of base salary.
Notes to the policy table Performance targets are set annually by the committee taking into account the boards business plans and building in an appropriate Legacy matters level of stretch.
The committee may vary both measures and The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration targets year-by-year to ensure that they remain fully aligned with payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that our strategy and continue to be reflective of the Companys they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms business plans.
of the payment were agreed: More detail on the annual bonus and PSP measures and targets can before the policy came into effect: or be found on pages 87 to 88. at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment Malus and clawback All variable pay may be subject to malus and clawback in any of the was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
following circumstances, for a period of up to five years in line with corporate governance timeframes: For these purposes payments include the committee satisfying a material misstatement of the Companys or any other Group awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the members audited financial results: award is granted.
a material failure of risk management by the Company, any other Group member or a relevant business unit: In particular, under the 2003 BSMP, a bonus in lieu of dividend is paid on vested but unexercised awards.
misconduct or material error on the part of the participant: or Performance conditions a material downturn in the financial performance of the The performance conditions for both the annual bonus and PSP are Company, any other Group member or a relevant business unit selected to align directly with our short and long-term strategy.
The profit before tax and EPS measures under the annual bonus Malus and clawback parameters will remain under review in line and PSP incentivise the achievement of continuing financial growth, with regulatory guidance.
with the total shareholder return measure providing a direct link to the creation of shareholder value.
We also use strategic measures to focus on the achievement of the key short and long-term strategic objectives of the Company.
76 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Future policy table for the Chairman and non-executive directors Purpose and link to ICAPs strategy Operation and fee levels To attract and retain a high-performing The Chairman receives a fee for the role, as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman Chairman and non-executive directors with is entitled to an additional fee for the chairmanship of the Nomination Committee but has waived his the right level of skills, international experience entitlement to this additional fee.
The non-executive directors receive an annual fee in respect of their duties.
Further fees may be paid in respect of chairmanship of board committees and for the senior independent director.
No fees are paid for membership of a board committee.
Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who sit on the board of the ICAP SEF entities and or any other subsidiary boards due to the additional time commitment required for discharging these roles.
Non-executive directors fees are considered and approved by the executive directors and the Chairman.
Fees are set at a level which is considered appropriate to attract and retain the calibre of individuals required by the Company.
Fees are reviewed regularly against comparable companies and may be adjusted from time to time.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate.
The Chairman is provided with an office and is reimbursed for a proportion of the cost of a car and driver to assist with the performance of his duties.
The current fee levels can be found in the annual report on remuneration on page 88.
Where the new appointment is replacing a previous executive Recruitment policy In determining remuneration for new appointments to the board, director, salaries, pension and total remuneration opportunity may be higher or lower than the previous incumbent dependent on skills the committee will apply the following principles: and experience.
the committee will consider all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the calibre of the individual, the external market and Where an executive director is appointed from within the Group, the normal policy of the Company is that any existing existing arrangements for the Companys current executive directors, with a view to ensuring that any arrangements offered arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive director is appointed are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders and without paying any more than is necessary: and following an acquisition of or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
the committee will seek, as far as possible, to align new executive directors remuneration packages with the Maximum level of variable pay remuneration policy as set out above.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to a new executive director in respect of their appointment shall be Components and approach limited to that set out in the policy table above for each component Generally, pay on recruitment will be consistent with the usual of remuneration.
This excludes any one-off awards made to policy for executive directors, as set out in the policy table compensate the director for awards forfeited from their previous above.
The committee, however, considers it important that the employer.
recruitment policy has sufficient flexibility in order to attract the calibre of individual that the Company may require to continue Buy-outs to grow a successful business.
In order to facilitate recruitment, the committee may make a one-off award to buy-out incentive awards and any other The committee may, in its absolute discretion, include remuneration compensation arrangements that a new director has had to forfeit components or awards which are not specified in the policy table, on leaving their previous employer.
In doing so, the committee will where necessary.
The committee will ensure that this is done only take into account all relevant factors, including any performance where there is a genuine commercial need and in the best interests conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the likelihood of these of the Company and its shareholders.
The committee commits to conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting performance explain to shareholders the rationale for the relevant arrangements period remaining and the form of the award for example cash or following any appointment.
Where possible, the forfeited awards will normally be bought-out on a like-for-like basis.
The committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary, particularly when determining any possible buy-out arrangements.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 77 Governance and directors report Remuneration policy report continued Contractual terms Recruitment of Chairman and non-executive directors The Companys usual policy on notice periods is up to 12 months In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman and or notice by the Company or executive director to provide a non-executive director, their remuneration framework will normally reasonable balance between the need to retain the services of key be in line with the table on page 88. individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in the event of the termination of a contract.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Executive directors Key terms relating to ICAPs policy in the event of termination of an executive director are set out in the table below.
Provision Policy Notice period Up to 12 months notice by the Company or executive director.
Termination payment Contractual entitlement would be limited to salary and benefits including pension over the notice period.
The Company would normally expect executive directors to mitigate any loss on their departure.
Incentive plans Participation in all incentive plans is non-contractual and at the committees discretion.
Annual bonus An executive director will not be eligible to receive an annual bonus unless the committee, in its absolute discretion, decides otherwise.
In determining whether to award a bonus, the committee will assess performance during the financial year and apply pro rata as deemed appropriate.
It will normally be the case that a proportion of any bonus would continue to be deferred under the DSBP see below.
The committee, however, reserves the right to make any such payment in cash with no requirement to defer any bonus.
DSBP Unvested awards will lapse except under certain circumstances i. e. ill-health, injury or disability, the participants employing company ceasing to be a group member, or any other reason and at the committees discretion other than in the case of summary dismissal, when deferred awards under the DSBP will vest at the normal time.
The number of shares released in such circumstances will be determined by the committee in its absolute discretion, taking into account the period until cessation of employment.
In the case of death, awards will vest on the date of death.
PSP Unvested awards will lapse except under certain circumstances i. e. ill-health, injury or disability, the participants employing company ceasing to be a group member, or any other reason and at the committees discretion other than in the case of summary dismissal, when PSP awards will vest and be released at the normal time.
In the case of death, awards will vest and be released on the date of death.
If the individual leaves prior to the release of awards but after the end of the vesting period, the awards will continue to be released at the end of the holding period, except on the grounds of summary dismissal, in which case they will lapse.
The key termination provisions of ICAPs current and proposed Stuart Bridges executive directors contracts are set out below: Stuart Bridgess notice period is 12 months from the Company, six months from the employee.
He is entitled to receive salary Michael Spencer and benefits for the duration of his notice period.
He may be Michael Spencers notice period is 12 months.
He is entitled to eligible to receive a discretionary bonus.
receive salary and benefits for the duration of his notice period.
His contract includes a pay in lieu of notice clause which allows Change of control the Company to make a payment equal to this amount in lieu In the event of a change of control or a voluntary winding up of the of any applicable period of notice.
He may be eligible to receive Company, DSBP and PSP awards will vest at that time, taking into a discretionary bonus.
account, unless the board determines otherwise, the extent to which any performance conditions have been met and the time elapsed since the grant date.
The committee, however, may require or permit individuals to exchange any awards for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
78 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Non-executive directors The committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of The non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Company employees throughout the Group when determining remuneration have letters of appointment which set out their duties and arrangements for executive directors.
ICAP manages the costs responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts.
The key terms of employment at the corporate level and expects changes of the appointments are set out in the table below: in total remuneration for directors to reflect changes in the Companys performance.
Provision Policy Notwithstanding a change in structure of the overall package for Notice period Non-executive directors and the Chairman are the executive directors in 2014 15, changes in salary are normally not entitled to compensation on leaving the aligned to both policy and practice for increases for the wider board, other than fees in respect of any population in terms of annual increases, market positioning and notice period.
adjustments for promotions and changes of role.
There is no notice period, other than in the event Director remuneration over time is expected to correlate with of change in control for non-executive directors corporate performance and as such has the potential to be much and the Chairman in which case a threemonth more volatile than that of the wider population.
The Company does not consult directly with employees on the Availability of documentation policy but information relating to wider workforce remuneration Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the is provided in regular updates to the committee.
Consideration of shareholder views Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group The committee is committed to ongoing dialogue with and wider employment conditions shareholders and seeks the views of its largest shareholders when any major changes are being made to remuneration policy and There are consistent overarching principles of remuneration which apply across the Group.
Accordingly, the Chairman of the Company and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Given the nature of our business, there is no single structure of corresponded with many of the Companys key shareholders and remuneration that applies to all employees throughout the Group.
UK institutional investor bodies, and also met with a number of For example, the pay structure for brokers is different from that them in person to seek their views on the proposed executive of other employees.
A significant element of pay, however, is remuneration arrangements.
Following the consultation process, performance-linked, ensuring that all ICAPs employees are the committee met to discuss the key views emerging from the focused on delivering strong financial results and achieving meetings and made a number of adjustments to the original our strategic goals.
proposals to reflect shareholder views.
For members of the GEMG and other senior executives in the Minor amendments Group, a proportion of remuneration is deferred into Company The committee may make minor amendments to the policy set shares and awards made under an equivalent plan to the PSP, out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative ensuring long-term alignment with the interests of shareholders.
purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for any such amendments.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 79 Governance and directors report Remuneration policy report continued Charts illustrating the application of the policy Group Chief Executive Officer The charts shown illustrate the policy for 2015 16 in line with Michael Spencer the policy table on pages 74 to 76.
The charts show hypothetical 8m values for the remuneration package for executive directors under three different performance scenarios: 6m 5.394m Fixed elements of pay only Minimum No bonus payout or vesting under the PSP 42% 4m Fixed elements of pay Performance in line 2.581m with expectations 50% of maximum annual bonus 22% 2m 42% including deferral i. e. 150% of 43% 0.894m salary for the Group Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary for the 100% 35% 16% Group Finance Director 0 Minimum In line with Maximum 25% of maximum vesting under the expectations performance PSP i. e. 75% of salary for the Group Fixed pay including pension and benets Chief Executive Officer and 50% for the Group Finance Director Annual bonus including deferral PSP Fixed elements of pay Maximum 100% of maximum annual bonus including deferral i. e. 300% of Group Finance Director salary for the Group Chief Executive Stuart Bridges Officer and 200% of salary for the 8m Group Finance Director 100% of maximum vesting under the PSP i. e. 300% of salary for the 6m Group Chief Executive Officer and 200% for the Group Finance Director 4m 2.524m 1.274m 40% 2m 20% 40% 0.524m 39% 100% 41% 20% 0 Minimum In line with Maximum expectations performance Fixed pay including pensions and benets Annual bonus including deferral PSP Pension cash Salary Benefits allowance With effect from Anticipated In line with 1 April 2015 2015 16 policy Total fixed pay Group Chief Executive Officer 750,000 106,348 37,500 893,848 Group Finance Director 500,000 2,743 21,600 524,343 80 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Governance and directors report Annual report on remuneration The information in this section up to and including the statement of directors shareholding and share interests section is subject to audit.
The annual report on remuneration is subject to an advisory vote by shareholders.
Notes to the table methodology a Salary and fees the base salary or fees paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
b Benefits the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
Benefits vary for each executive director but include medical, car and travel benefits.
Michael Spencer also has use of a driver.
c Annual bonus this represents the bonus awarded in respect of the 2014 15 performance year, including the deferred portion.
d Pension cash allowance During the year, Michael Spencer participated in the UK defined contribution plan.
Iain Torrens ceased participation in the UK defined contribution plan and received a cash alternative.
As a US-based director, John Nixon did not participate in any pension arrangements.
e Bonus in lieu of dividend the amounts shown reflect payments in lieu of dividends received on the basic and matching awards for 2009 and basic awards and promises granted under the BSMP for 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of remuneration table 2014 15 annual bonus The 2014 15 bonus scheme was structured to incentivise executive directors to increase profit and to align their interests with those of shareholders.
As such the bonus scheme includes a profit level below which no bonus is payable, and a maximum level above which no additional bonus is payable.
The scheme was designed so that significant upside was only made available to executive directors for growing the Groups profitability by achieving trading profit before tax in line with the financial year 2011 12 figure 354 million, adjusted for RPI plus 3% growth per annum.
This is consistent with the original objective of the plan to reward long-term growth.
For 2014 15, the payment table is shown below.
The bonus pool was capped at a maximum achievement of 120% of the target profit figure of 361 million.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 81 Governance and directors report Annual report on remuneration continued Tier Trading profit before tax m Marginal bonus rate for 2014 2015 % 1 0 83 0 2 84 167 2.41 3 168 251 3.06 4 252 334 3.72 5 335 360 4.38 6 361 433 8.75 7 434 0 Calculating the bonus pool 1.
Vesting under the financial element was calculated based Threshold Marginal bonus Actual trading Bonus pool value on actual trading profit before tax.
levels rate accrual profit before tax 433 million 2.
Actual trading profit before tax was 229 million, and therefore 2.02 million of the pool accumulated for the 8.75% portion between 83 million and 167 million, and 1.9 million 360 million 4.38% accumulated for the portion between 167 million and 334 million 229 million.
The total bonus pool was therefore 3.92 million.
Of the total bonus pool, 25% or 0.98 million related to the strategic element.
The committee judged 85% of this element 229 million 3.92 million to have been met and therefore only 0.83 million of this 251 million element paid out.
After adjusting for the strategic outcome, the overall pool was 3.77 million, which was distributed among the executive 167 million directors at the committees discretion.
2.41% x 84 million 2.02 million 83 million 0% x 83 million 0 0 million Of the bonus pool, 75% relates to achievement of the financial objective and 25% to achievement of the strategic objectives over which the committee exercised its judgement as to the level of achievement.
The objectives assessed by the committee for the year ended 31 March 2015 were based on five key areas: Key strategic areas Results Growth and protection Achievement of sustainable top-line growth within the parameters set was largely met with strong revenue growth in target areas.
There was also good retention of market share across many key business areas.
This was all achieved against tough market conditions.
Profitability Although actual trading profit before tax was above analyst projections and costs were strongly managed, revenue growth was not achieved across all target businesses.
As a result, the committee determined that majority, but not all, of the objective for the year had been achieved.
Controls and governance The reinforcement of defence models and review of roles and responsibilities is an ongoing process and will remain so.
A new compliance risk model was created in the year and key appointments in risk and control functions responsible for global implementation of consistent risk frameworks were made.
Risk management functions also continued to be developed inside business lines.
The committee judged that good progress has been made during the year and the objective has accordingly been assessed as meeting the majority of requirements.
People The creation and implementation of a new leadership programme has been a great success across the business.
Work continues on the development of talent management and organisational review, including focus on the talent framework, learning and diversity strategies, but good progress has been made during the year.
Culture An integrated plan for brand, culture and internal communication has been developed over the course of the year through engagement with stakeholders and leaders across the business.
Progress has been made in the year across all areas of the business and we will continue to build on this over the coming year to ensure that it is embedded in behaviours and performance across the business.
The committee agreed that 85% of the strategic objectives for 2014 15 had been achieved.
82 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions The bonus pool has been allocated between the executive directors as follows: Executive directors Total bonus Michael Spencer 1,818,000 John Nixon 1,212,000 Iain Torrens 625,000 50% of Michael Spencers total bonus will be deferred into ICAP shares vesting equally over a three-year period.
In previous years, executives were required to use 50% of the total bonus to acquire investment shares under the BSMP, with matching shares granted.
As part of the transitional arrangements to the new structure, the Group Chief Executive Officer will be obliged to acquire investment shares although no matching shares will be awarded under the BSMP.
Instead, awards of an equivalent value will be granted under the new PSP for the first time.
Further details are set out on page 80.
2012 BSMP matching award The BSMP matching award granted in 2012 was subject to a performance condition based on adjusted basic EPS growth over the three financial years to 31 March 2015.
The matching award is released only if adjusted basic EPS has grown by at least 9% above RPI over the three financial years to 31 March 2015.
The Companys adjusted basic EPS growth over the three-year period was -17% and therefore the award did not vest.
Details of share awards granted in the year 2014 BSMP matching award On 22 May 2014, BSMP matching awards were granted to the three executive directors in respect of the 2013 14 annual bonus as shown in the table below: Threshold vesting Maximum vesting Performance Type of award Number of shares Face value % of face value % of face value period end Michael Spencer Nil-cost option over ordinary 91,657 348,773 10% 100% 31 March 2017 10p shares in the Company John Nixon Conditional share award 170,221 647,725 10% 100% 31 March 2017 Iain Torrens Nil-cost option over ordinary 130,939 498,249 10% 100% 31 March 2017 10p shares in the Company The face value of awards is based on the average closing price for the five business days following the preliminary announcement of the 2013 14 results 3.8052.
The committee selected trading EPS as the performance condition on the basis that it safeguards the progress that has been made in the Groups performance and underpins continuing forward growth in the Groups earnings and therefore promotes the long-term success of the Company.
The performance condition for the 2014 BSMP matching award is based on graduated vesting where 10% of the matching award will vest at RPI 6% per annum, increasing to 100% vesting at RPI 15% per annum over a three-year period.
Where awards have been granted in the form of options, the exercise price of the nil-cost options is 1.
The exercise period for these options will commence on the day of the announcement of the Companys annual results for the financial year ending on 31 March 2017 and will last for a period of five years.
SAYE options Michael Spencer and, until his departure from the Company, Iain Torrens participated in the HMRC approved ICAP plc 2008 Sharesave Scheme SAYE, under which participants may be granted options at a 20% discount to market value at grant.
Options granted under the SAYE are not subject to a performance condition.
On 13 June 2014, 1,490 options over ordinary shares in the Company were granted to both Michael Spencer and Iain Torrens at an option price of 3.02.
For Michael Spencer, the exercise period for the options will commence on 1 August 2017 and will last for a period of six months to 31 January 2018.
Iain Torrenss SAYE options lapsed on cessation of employment.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 83 Governance and directors report Annual report on remuneration continued Appointment of new director Stuart Bridges Stuart Bridges will join the Company at the beginning of September and will be appointed as Group Finance Director, subject to FCA approval, at that point.
His remuneration will comprise: annual salary of 500,000 paid in monthly instalments: annual pension cash allowance of 5% of salary, less employers national insurance contribution and normal statutory deductions: benefits relating to medical, life insurance and travel: participation in the executive director annual bonus and DSBP, with eligibility of up to 200% of salary: and participation in the PSP, with eligibility of up to 200% of salary.
In addition, Stuart Bridges will receive two grants of ICAP plc shares each to the value of 450,000 and vesting after 12 and 24 months of service.
Both awards are subject to continued service, malus and clawback.
Stuart Bridges will also be granted a PSP award to the value of 900,000 subject to all plan rules and restrictions.
This additional compensation is recompense for deferred awards foregone from his previous employment.
Payments to past directors No payments to past directors have been made in the year.
Payments to outgoing directors Iain Torrens Iain Torrens resigned from his role as an executive director of ICAP plc with effect from 12 December 2014 and ceased to be an employee of the Company with effect from 31 December 2014.
He continued to receive his usual salary, benefits and pension until 31 December 2014, the date of his departure from the Company, as follows: annual salary of 225,000 per annum, pro-rata for the relevant period, paid in monthly instalments: annual pension cash allowance of 5% of salary, less employers national insurance contribution and normal statutory deductions, pro-rated for the relevant period: and benefits relating to medical, life insurance and travel.
As disclosed above, a bonus payment of 625,000 was made to Iain Torrens in respect of 2014 15.
In determining this bonus, the committee took into account his individual performance over the period up to his departure.
The bonus award was also pro-rated to reflect the period over which Iain performed his duties as an executive director.
No award under the BSMP was made to him in respect of the 2014 15 bonus.
All outstanding matching awards under the BSMP lapsed on Iain Torrenss cessation of employment.
John Nixon John Nixon announced his intention to retire from the board on 31 March 2014 and ceased to be an employee of the Company with effect from 31 March 2015.
He continued to receive his usual salary and benefits until 31 March 2015, the date of his departure from the Company as follows.
annual salary of $500,000 per annum: and benefits relating to medical, life assurance and travel.
As disclosed above, a bonus payment of 1,212,000 was made to John Nixon in respect of 2014 15.
As a result of his departure from the Company at the end of the financial year, no award under the BSMP was made to him in respect of the 2014 15 bonus.
As disclosed in the 2014 report, the Company entered into a three-year consulting agreement with John Nixon effective 1 April 2015 to provide advice, support and oversight relating to various strategic and new business initiatives as identified by the Company and provide advice and support relating to the Companys senior level customer relationships, including the maintenance of such relationships.
For these services ICAP intends to pay John Nixon a monthly consulting fee of $83,333.
His consulting agreement also contains specific provisions relating to non-competition for the duration of the agreement.
84 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Statement of directors shareholding and share interests Minimum shareholding guidelines for executive directors and members of the GEMG have been in place since 2012.
These shareholdings will be built up over time and, for these purposes, will include vested share awards under long term incentive plans but will not include any unvested rights to shares awarded under long term incentive plans or any unexercised options.
Any vested shares subject to a holding period under the new PSP will count towards the shareholding guidelines.
Other shares that count towards the guideline include those that are beneficially owned and shares held by the ICAP Trust in respect of BSMP basic awards and any vested but not exercised BSMP matching and unvested PSP awards.
The minimum shareholding guideline for the Group Chief Executive Officer is 500% of base salary and for the other executive directors is 300% of base salary.
Each executive director had exceeded their target as at 31 March 2015, based on the share price at the close of business on that date.
The table below details the share interests of the directors in office at 31 March 2015.
Share interests Share interests Outstanding BSMP Outstanding unapproved Outstanding SAYE as at as at awards with options with options without Director Note 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 performance condition performance condition performance condition Charles Gregson 236,263 229,612 Michael Spencer 1,2 3,799,984 3,120,668 4,583,991 4,774 John Nixon 721,773 209,386 1,300,352 250,000 Iain Torrens 3 193,802 427,211 Ivan Ritossa Diane Schueneman John Sievwright 20,000 20,000 Robert Standing 10,000 10,000 Note: 1.
Details of Michael Spencers shareholding, including his connected parties, are set out in a note to the substantial shareholders section on page 70.
The outstanding BSMP awards with performance conditions include the 2008 BSMP matching award which has vested and remains unexercised.
Iain Torrenss shareholding is correct as at 12 December 2014.
Between 31 March 2015 and 12 May 2015 there were no transactions in the Companys shares by the directors.
External appointments The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits to both the Company and executive directors serving as non-executive directors of other companies.
Executive directors are permitted to take on non-executive directorships with other companies with the approval of the Nomination Committee.
Any fees arising from such appointments are retained by the individual.
Michael Spencer received a fee of 66,667, which he retained, for his directorship of Tungsten Corporation plc.
Michael resigned this directorship on 31 December 2014.
Total shareholder return The total shareholder return on a holding of the Companys ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 100, FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share indices for the six financial years to 31 March 2015 is shown in the graph on the next page.
As a constituent of the FTSE 100 index from June 2006 to September 2012, the Company considers both the FTSE 100 and the FTSE 250 the appropriate indices for comparison.
During this period the performance conditions for the long term incentive awards made in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 were not met.
Executive directors, therefore, did not receive the shares relating to these awards.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 85 Governance and directors report Annual report on remuneration continued Performance graph value of 100 invested Six financial years ended 31 March 2015 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ICAP FTSE 100 FTSE 250 FTSE All-Share Remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 Single total figure of remuneration 000 6,069 10,727 5,524 4,326 2,215 3,320 Percentage of maximum bonus paid n a n a 56% 41% 12% 25% Percentage of maximum BSMP opportunity vesting 100% 100% 0% 0% 0% 0% Note: No maximum bonus stated prior to 2011 12.
Change in the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer compared to other employees The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration awarded to the Group Chief Executive Officer and all other employees of the Group between 2013 14 and 2014 15.
Salary Benefits Bonus Group Chief Executive Officer 0% -11% 160% All other employees -7% 54% -10% Benefits include 6 million of charges taken to the 2014 15 income statement 2013 14 was 1 million credit in relation to share-based payment awards.
See note 8 to the financial statements.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2014 15 2013 14 Change m m % Total remuneration 743 771 -4 Dividends 141 141 0 Statement of implementation of the remuneration policy in the coming year As outlined in the Remuneration Committees Chairmans statement, we have made a number of changes to our proposed remuneration policy to reflect our changing business focus, drive long-term performance and promote the right culture.
2015 16 will be the first financial year in which our new remuneration policy is proposed to come into effect.
In particular, we consider that the proposed remuneration arrangements for 2015 16: will increase synergy with our business strategy going forward: improve alignment with shareholders, with the introduction of longer time horizons: are more aligned with regulatory and corporate governance developments, and should discourage excessive risk taking or short-term decisions at the expense of the long-term interests of the Company: and will provide increased transparency and disclosure of individual performance outcomes.
As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, we consulted with major shareholders and institutional investor bodies as we developed our new remuneration policy.
86 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 annual general meeting, our remuneration policy for 2015 16 will be as outlined below.
Salary As part of our new approach to remuneration, we are changing the balance of fixed and variable pay to align more closely with the Company risk profile and with regulatory developments.
Although salaries have been increased as a result, this is balanced by a much more significant reduction in the variable pay opportunity, leading to a lower overall total remuneration opportunity.
The revised salary levels will be effective from 1 April 2015, subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 annual general meeting.
Salary Group Chief Executive Officer 750,000 Group Finance Director 500,000 Pension and benefits Michael Spencer participates in the UK defined contribution plan, receiving a pension contribution equivalent to 5% of salary.
Stuart Bridges has indicated that he will not participate in the UK defined contribution plan.
He will receive a cash allowance in place of a contribution equivalent to 5% of salary less employers national insurance.
Annual bonus awards in respect of the 2015 16 financial year The bonus structure for 2015 16 is consistent with that detailed in the remuneration policy section of this report.
As outlined earlier in this report, this year we are moving away from a bonus pool approach and introducing an individual cap on awards expressed as a percentage of salary.
The previous approach was based on business performance expectations which were out of step with our developing business strategy.
Annual bonuses will continue to be assessed based on trading profit before tax performance and strategic priorities.
We have increased the proportion of the annual bonus based on strategic priorities from 25% to 30% of the overall award, reflecting the increased importance we place on these objectives.
Further details are set out below: Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% of base salary Maximum opportunity for 2015 Group Finance Director: 200% of base salary The committee has selected measures to directly support ICAPs strategy.
Performance measures The 2015 annual bonus will be subject to the following performance measures: Financial objectives 70% : 1.
Growth and protection innovation and sustainable growth in key businesses and new products 2.
Profitability market-leading profitability through achievement of targets and appropriate cost management Strategic priorities 30% : 1.
People and culture the right people working together in the right way 2.
Controls and governance efficient and effective controls The targets set for the performance measures are commercially sensitive and as permitted by the regulations are not being disclosed in advance.
Further details will be provided in next years Annual Report with as much context as possible on performance against those targets and the resulting bonus outturn within commercial constraints.
Half of any bonus award will be paid in cash, with the balance deferred into ICAP shares for a further three-year period.
Deferral The committee may apply malus or clawback to any portion of the bonus award both cash and share elements in line Performance with the policy outlined on page 76. adjustment ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 87 Governance and directors report Annual report on remuneration continued Long-term incentive awards In light of shareholder feedback, we have decided to remove the link between our annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements.
As such, it is proposed to replace the BSMP with a new PSP, which will be fully aligned with our business model and strategic goals.
In the 2015 2016 financial year, the intention is to make awards under the proposed PSP to the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director.
Further details are set out below: Group Chief Executive Officer: 300% of base salary Maximum opportunity Group Finance Director: 200% of base salary Performance will be measured over a three-year performance period.
Once they have vested, awards will be subject to an Performance period additional two-year holding period.
The performance period will run from 1 April 2015 31 March 2018.
Performance measures and targets TSR 50% of the award Half the 2015 PSP award will be subject to a Total Shareholder Return performance condition.
ICAPs TSR will be measured relative to a sector-specific group of 13 international comparator companies: BGC Markit MarketAxess BOVESPA Hong Kong Stock Exchange NASDAQ OMX Group CBOE InterContinental Exchange Singapore Exchange CME London Stock Exchange Tullett Prebon Deutsche Brse Vesting of awards under the TSR element will be in line with the following schedule: TSR performance Percentage of TSR element vesting Below median 0% Median 25% Upper quartile 100% With performance plotted against a straight-line between the median and upper quartile of comparator group.
EPS 50% of the award The remaining 50% of the 2015 award will be subject to a point-to-point EPS performance condition.
Awards under this element will vest in line with the following schedule: 3-year EPS growth Percentage of EPS element vesting CPI 20% 25% CPI 45% 100% The committee may apply malus or clawback to PSP awards in line with the policy outlined on page 76.
Performance adjustment Chairman and non-executive directors fees The table below shows the non-executive director fee structure as at 1 April 2015: Position Fee Chairman 300,000 Non-executive director 80,000 Additional fees Senior independent director 10,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Risk Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Nomination Committee 5,000 Membership of the ICAP SEF board and or any other subsidiary board 15,000 $25,000 Charles Gregson waived his entitlement to the additional fee for his role as chairman of the Nomination Committee.
There are no fees paid for membership of board committees.
Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who sit on the board of ICAP SEF entities due to the additional time commitment for discharging this role.
88 ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Remuneration Committee remit and responsibilities The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the board to review and approve proposals to ensure that ICAPs global reward and employee benefits approach supports the business strategy of the Group.
The committees responsibility is the oversight of the remuneration strategy for the Group, to ensure that ICAPs approach to remuneration is aligned with the interests of employees and shareholders and to comply with current best practice and regulatory requirements.
Full terms of reference can be found on the Companys website at www.
The committees principal areas of responsibility are: reviewing and approving the overall remuneration policy of ICAP at least every three years: setting remuneration and pension benefit policies for executive directors, senior staff and other key employees across the business: approving any contracts of employment for employees below the board with terms that exceed certain agreed levels of duration, notice period or remuneration: ensuring that remuneration proposals are compliant with both the letter and spirit of local legislation or regulatory guidelines: and to consider implications for risk management.
Remuneration Committee members and meetings The committee members are appointed by the board and comprise independent non-executive directors.
The chairman of the committee is appointed by the board.
The following table sets out the directors who served on the Remuneration Committee during the year and their committee meeting attendance.
Where a director did not attend a meeting owing to a prior commitment, he received the relevant papers and provided input to the Chairman in advance of the meeting so that his views were known.
Total Attended Robert Standing Chairman 4 4 Ivan Ritossa 4 3 Diane Schueneman 4 4 Activities during the year The principal activities and matters addressed by the committee during the year included: development and approval of the proposed executive remuneration policy for 2015 16 onwards, including review of the previous arrangements and debating the new structure and key terms of new arrangements: review and approval of the executive directors bonuses for the year ended 31 March 2015, including assessment of the level of achievement of the executive directors objectives for the year: review of performance against the EPS performance target for the 2012 BSMP award: review and approval of the remuneration of those individuals fulfilling control functions, including the Group Head of Compliance and the Group Head of Risk, and the GEMG: and the review of highest earners compensation arrangements across the Group.
Committee evaluation The overall effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee was rated highly by an external evaluation, including the performance of the committee in setting and reviewing the remuneration policy for the board and executive management.
The committees areas of focus for 2015 16 will include improving the transparency and performance data for executive management and GEMG remuneration as well as benchmarking ICAP compensation policies against other organisations.
The committee will also increase its focus on reviewing the development needs of key personnel.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2015 89 Governance and directors report Annual report on remuneration continued Support to the committee Details of the committees responsibilities and membership during the year are shown on page 89.
The committee is supported by the Group Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance Director, the Interim Group Finance Director, the Group Head of HR and the Group Company Secretary.
The committee received external advice from Deloitte LLP in relation to the design and implementation of the new executive remuneration arrangements.
Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Company.
The committee is satisfied that the advice received from Deloitte LLP was independent and objective.
The total fee in respect of the advice provided was 71,550.
Deloitte LLP also provided other services, including tax, consulting and corporate finance services to ICAP during the year.
Statement of voting at the 2014 annual general meeting At the 2014 annual general meeting votes cast in respect of the remuneration report and directors remuneration policy were: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Total number of votes Votes cast Total number of votes Votes cast For 528,730,931 99.76% 357,041,526 67.36% Against 1,285,178 0.24% 172,980,778 32.64% Number of votes cast 530,016,109 530,022,304 Votes withheld 2,521,259 2,515,064 The committee was pleased that the remuneration report was almost universally agreed.
We have listened to shareholders concerns over the directors remuneration policy and have made some significant changes to the policy this year which we hope will address previous concerns.
