DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration Committees objective is to ensure remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the delivery of shareholder value.
As such, it has implemented a remuneration policy which provides a framework for making decisions, including those covering the remuneration of Executive Directors.
PREPARATION OF THE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY REMUNERATION REPORT The role of the Remuneration Committee Our Directors Remuneration Report covers the remuneration The committee is responsible for making recommendations of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of IG Group to the Board on the Groups senior executive remuneration Holdings plc.
In line with the regulations governing the policy.
Operating within defined and agreed terms of disclosure and approval of directors remuneration, the report reference, it determines an overall remuneration package is split into three sections: an annual statement from the for the Executive Directors in order to attract and retain Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Directors high-quality Directors capable of achieving the Groups Remuneration Policy and an Annual Report on Remuneration.
The committees terms of reference can be found The disclosures required under Article 450 of the Capital on our corporate website at iggroup.
Requirements Regulation are provided on the corporate The committee sets and agrees with the Board a competitive website and accordingly are not detailed within the Directors and transparent remuneration framework which is aligned Remuneration Report.
to the Company strategy and is in the interests of both Unless otherwise stated, information and disclosures within the Company and its shareholders.
The committee the Directors Remuneration Report are unaudited.
The determines the contractual terms, remuneration and other regulations require the Companys auditors to report on benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including the audited information in the report and to state that this performance-related incentive arrangements, pension rights, section has been properly prepared in accordance with these compensation payments and share-incentive awards.
The audited sections, which fall within the Annual The committees other responsibilities are to: Report on Remuneration, have been clearly identified.
Determine and review the Groups remuneration policy, This following part of the Remuneration Report sets out the ensuring it is consistent with effective risk management Directors Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders across the Group, and to consider the implications of this at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Although not required remuneration policy on risk by the reporting regulations, the substantive terms of the Determine and agree the policy for the remuneration of the Directors Remuneration Policy are reproduced here for Board Chairman and the Executive Directors ease of reference.
Any details, however, that were specific to 2014 or earlier years including, for example, any disclosures Review and note pay and employment conditions and the relating to particular Directors and the remuneration remuneration trends across the Group scenarios charts have been updated, where applicable, to Approve all share-based awards under the Groups reflect the current position.
There is no vote on the Directors employee incentive schemes, to determine each year Remuneration Policy at the 2015 Annual General Meeting as it whether awards will be made and, if awards are made, to is unchanged.
monitor their operation, the size of such awards and the performance targets to be used Establish the selection criteria, appoint and set the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the committee | 70 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 In line with new regulations governing the disclosure and approval of directors remuneration, our Directors Remuneration Report is split into two sections: Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy 70 Annual Report on Remuneration 82 Monitor regulatory developments, including those affecting value both for the Company and the shareholders.
Likewise, UK-listed companies and financial services firms, to ensure failure to achieve, individually or at Company level, will not the Companys remuneration policy is consistent with these be rewarded.
The Board determines the remuneration of The committee is also mindful of ensuring that there is an Non-Executive Directors.
appropriate balance between the level of risk and reward for the individual, the Company and for our shareholders.
Objectives of the remuneration policy When setting levels of variable remuneration, the degree of stretch in performance conditions and the balance of The Remuneration Committees objective is to ensure equity and cash within a package, consideration is given remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the to obtaining the appropriate balance of each so as not to growth of shareholder value.
As such, it has implemented a encourage unnecessary risk-taking.
As well as financial risk, remuneration policy which provides a framework for making the committee also ensures that there is an appropriate focus decisions, including those covering the remuneration of on regulatory and governance matters.
The remuneration policy is set to ensure that remuneration has the ability to attract and retain senior The total remuneration package is structured so that a executives of a high calibre, remains competitive and provides significant proportion is linked to performance conditions, appropriate incentive for performance.
and it is the Companys policy to ensure that a high proportion of the potential remuneration package is provided The committee has agreed that all matters relating to via share-based instruments.
This ensures that executives remuneration of Group employees should: have a strong ongoing alignment with shareholders through Align with the best interests of the Companys shareholders the Companys share price performance.
and other stakeholders The table on pages 72-77 summarises each element of the Recognise and reward good and excellent performance of remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, explaining employees that helps drive sustainable growth of the Group how each element operates and how each part links to the Focus on retaining high-performing senior management corporate strategy.
Be consistent with regulatory and corporate governance requirements Be designed to achieve effective risk management Be straightforward, easy for employees to understand and easy for the Group to monitor Not be used to reward behaviour that inappropriately increases the Groups exposure to risks The committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
There must be transparency and alignment to the delivery of strategic objectives at both a Company and an individual level.
There must also be scope to reward for exceptional effort and achievement that delivers | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION RECOVERY OR PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS WITHHOLDING BASE SALARY Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain Salaries are normally reviewed by the committee annually, The general policy is to pay around No performance metrics apply to base salary.
No recovery or key employees of appropriate calibre to deliver the and are usually fixed for 12 months commencing 1 June.
mid-market levels, with annual increases withholding applies to strategic objectives of the Company.
Any salary increase may be influenced by: typically in line with the wider workforce.
Reflects the market value of the role and the postScale, scope and responsibility of the role Increases beyond the percentage holders experience, competency and performance increases granted to the wider Experience of the individual and his or her performance within the Company.
workforce may be awarded in Average change in wider workforce pay exceptional circumstances, Business performance and prevailing market conditions such as: Commercial need Where there is a change in the Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable individuals responsibility companies selected on the basis of comparable size, Where the salary set at initial complexity, geographic spread and business focus appointment was below the level expected once the individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role An above-market positioning may be appropriate, in exceptional circumstances, to reflect the criticality of the role and the individuals experience and performance.
Base salary levels for the financial year ending 31 May 2016 are: T A Howkins 486,400 C F Hill 340,400 P G Hetherington 364,900 BENEFITS Competitive, cost-effective benefits to help recruit and Benefits may include, for example, private medical The aim is to provide market-competitive No performance metrics apply to benefits.
No recovery or retain Executive Directors and senior management.
insurance, discounted health club membership and benefits, and their value may vary from withholding applies life assurance.
year to year, depending on the cost to to benefits.
the Company from third-party providers.
Cash alternatives may be provided for any or all of these benefits, depending on individual circumstances.
Benefits constitute a small percentage of total remuneration.
Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a Director is required to relocate.
PENSION Market-competitive, cost-effective retirement benefits The Group contributes to Executive Directors personal The company may contribute up to 15% No performance metrics apply to No recovery or attract and retain executives.
Executives have the option to receive part, of base salary to pension, an equivalent retirement benefits.
withholding applies to or all, of their pension contribution as a cash allowance in cash allowance in lieu, or a mixture retirement benefits.
lieu of Company pension contributions.
| 72 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 RECOVERY OR PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS WITHHOLDING BASE SALARY Provides a sound basis on which to recruit and retain Salaries are normally reviewed by the committee annually, The general policy is to pay around No performance metrics apply to base salary.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION RECOVERY OR PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS WITHHOLDING SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN SPP Approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, the We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five The maximum plan contribution in The quantum of any awards granted is dependent The committee on performance against performance targets set by SPP provides a single incentive plan for Executive consecutive plan years.
The first plan year was the respect of a plan year is an award of may decide within the committee for each relevant financial year.
Directors rather than having separate annual and financial year ended 31 May 2014. shares with a market value of no more three years of a plan long-term plans.
than 500% of an executives annual contribution that the Performance targets may comprise, for example, Awards of shares either in the form of par value options, rate of salary.
underlying award will diluted earnings per share DEPS targets, Total It provides a simple and competitive incentive nil cost options or conditional awards, known as plan be subject to clawback.
Shareholder Return TSR and non-financial mechanism that encourages and rewards both annual contributions, are made after the announcement of results This may happen measures.
Performance is measured over single and sustained long-term performance, linked to the relating to each plan year.
where there has been a plan years financial years except for TSR from plan Companys strategic objectives.
Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement year 2 awards in respect of financial year ending material misstatement The SPP encapsulates traditional annual bonus and against applicable performance targets and accumulate 31 May 2015.
We currently intend to apply the in the Companys following performance criteria: long-term incentive plans.
It is entirely share-based, within a participants plan account.
financial results or an encouraging executives to build up a substantial error in assessing any DEPS a sliding scale of targets will apply for each Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in stake in the Company, thereby aligning the interests applicable performance plan year.
The targets will be set at the start of the plan account vests ie options or awards are released of management with shareholders.
It may also each plan year.
Targets and performance will be to participants.
be triggered if there has disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Therefore, a participants plan account will comprise the been substantial failure Remuneration for the relevant financial year-end.
sum of the plan contribution if any being made in relation of risk management, Relative TSR the Companys share price plus to the relevant plan year plus the accumulated awards or if the participants dividends reinvested performance is measured registered in the plan account from previous plan years.
employment is against an appropriate comparator group.
For terminated for the first plan year, performance was based on In the first five plan years, a participants plan account vests serious misconduct.
that plan year alone: for the second plan year, as follows: The clawback may be performance was based on plan years 1 and 2.
For satisfied by a reduction Following Financial year % of cumulative shares in plan years thereafter performance is measured over in the amount of ending plan account vesting three plan years ending with the plan year being reported on.
The committee retains the discretion any subsisting plan Plan year 1 31 May 2014 40.0% to scale back the level of award if it feels the account, a reduction Plan year 2 31 May 2015 40.0% Companys underlying financial performance does in the vesting of any Plan year 3 31 May 2016 33.3% not warrant the level of award resulting from TSR subsisting vested performance alone.
Plan year 4 31 May 2017 33.3% awards or future share awards and or a Plan year 5 31 May 2018 33.3% Non-financial these may comprise strategic goals, requirement to make operational and client satisfaction measures for After plan year 5, the committee may at such time or at a cash payment.
Targets and performance will be later date during the life of the SPP close the operation of disclosed retrospectively.
Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be If the SPP is closed following plan year 5, unvested awards set.
For the DEPS and relative TSR measures, no remaining in the plan account will vest in tranches of 50%, more than 25% is payable for achieving threshold 25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries of performance, rising to full payout for achieving a the SPPs closure.
The same principles will apply on a later more challenging target.
The scorecard of financial, share price and nonParticipants may receive a payment at the time of delivery financial metrics may vary from year to year in accordance with strategic priorities and the of vested shares of an amount equivalent to the dividends regulatory environment.
that would have been paid on those shares while in the plan account adopting a first-in, first-out basis.
This At the time of determining the contribution for plan amount may assume dividend reinvestment.
Dividends will year 5, in the event that the committee feels the not accrue on vested but unexercised awards.
Companys underlying financial performance over the first five plan years has not been satisfactory, the committee may scale back the final balance of the plan account.
| 74 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 RECOVERY OR PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS WITHHOLDING SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN SPP Approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, the We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five The maximum plan contribution in The quantum of any awards granted is dependent The committee on performance against performance targets set by SPP provides a single incentive plan for Executive consecutive plan years.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION RECOVERY OR PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS WITHHOLDING ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES All employees including Executive Directors are The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan.
Partnership, HMRC or non-UK plan equivalent limits No performance metrics tend to apply, although No recovery or encouraged to become shareholders through the free, dividend and matching shares may be granted under the SIP.
will apply to any all-employee schemes they may be introduced where applicable and withholding applies operation of an HMRC-approved share-incentive that may be introduced.
to all-employee If other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they plan SIP and or such other all-employee share plans share schemes.
will operate in accordance with HMRC guidance and limits.
This currently constitutes a small as the Company may adopt in the future.
proportion of Executive Directors Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK total remuneration.
employees and Directors to participate.
SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY Aligns the interests of management and shareholders A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year Not applicable.
and promotes a long-term approach to performance ended 31 May 2014. and risk management.
Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base salary applies.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director are included in the guideline, which must be achieved within five years of the introduction of the policy or, if later, from the date of appointment to the Board.
The committee will review progress annually, with an expectation that Executive Directors will make progress towards achieving the shareholding policy each year.
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE Choice of performance measures: The performance measures that are used in the share performance plan SPP are a subset of the Companys Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Metric Rationale and link to the strategic KPIs How performance measures are set Total Shareholder Return TSR measures the total return to IG Groups shareholders, both through share price growth The committee sets the requirements for each plan year.
The current benchmark group comprises the constituents of the FTSE 350 TSR relative to a suitable and dividends paid, and as such it is aligned to shareholder interests.
benchmark group TSR is influenced by how well IG Group performs on a range of other metrics, including financial indicators such as revenue, profit, cash generation and dividends, and non-financial indicators such as client satisfaction and operational performance.
Diluted earnings per share DEPS is a key indicator of the profits generated for shareholders, and a reflection of both The committee determines appropriate performance targets each year, taking account of the annual and longer-term business DEPS revenue growth and cost control.
DEPS is calculated on such adjusted basis as the committee reasonably selects eg adjusting for the effects of any share buybacks.
Non-financial performance Specific non-financial measure Specific non-financial criteria include system reliability, customer satisfaction, effective The committee approved, in advance, a basket of non-financial measures for the year ended 31 May 2015. risk management, sustaining the Companys excellent reputation and maintaining a good Following the end of the year the committee assesses performance relative to prior years, internal targets and sector averages.
Each of these measures has a direct impact on a number of the Assessment is undertaken in the round, taking account of activities and achievements during the year.
Groups KPIs, for example, system reliability is a key measure of the resilience of our trading platforms, which is an essential element of revenue generation and client satisfaction.
For example, for NPS, performance is assessed through comparison of the Groups performance against other companies in the sector, with the aim of maintaining a high NPS score relative to the sector average.
Customer satisfaction is also measured using the Net Promoter Score NPS data supplied by Investment Trends.
NPS is a measure of whether clients would recommend IG Group.
The basket of measures chosen is considered to provide a broader assessment of executive delivery than financial metrics alone.
Execution and delivery of key The delivery of the Groups strategic initiatives is key to the delivery of the strategy and will, As part of the Boards strategy planning, there is a clear plan of strategic initiatives provided to the Remuneration Committee at the strategic initiatives over time, drive financial performance and growth.
start of the year, which details the underlying projects set for delivery in the short-to-medium term.
The Remuneration Committee uses this plan to judge performance and managements execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives.
| 76 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 RECOVERY OR PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS WITHHOLDING ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES All employees including Executive Directors are The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE CONTINUED REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR Annual DEPS targets and non-financial performance EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS measures, where used, are likely to be too sensitive to As a result of the Companys remuneration policy, a significant disclose in advance, for commercial reasons.
We will, proportion of the remuneration received by Executive however, disclose the measures and targets where Directors depends on Company performance.
The chart applicable used, and the extent to which we have achieved on page 79 shows how total pay for the Executive Directors them, on a retrospective basis, at the end of the relevant varies under three different performance scenarios: minimum, performance period.
target and maximum: Incentive plan discretions Minimum The committee will operate the current SPP and other share This comprises the fixed elements of pay, being base salary, plans still in operation according to their respective rules and benefits and pension.
Base salary and pension are effective the policy set out above, and in accordance with the Listing as at 1 June 2015 and the benefits value is the actual value for Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
Copies of the SPP the year ended 31 May 2014. rules are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Target As is consistent with market practice, the committee retains This comprises fixed pay and the target value of SPP discretion over a number of areas relating to operating and 250%of salary.
These include but are not limited to the following: Maximum This comprises fixed pay and the maximum value of SPP Who participates in the plans 500% of salary.
The timing of grant of award and or payment No account has been taken of share price growth, The size of an award and or a payment within the plan or of dividend shares awarded in respect of the limits approved by shareholders deferred element of bonus and SPP awards over the The choice of and adjustment of performance measures deferral performance periods.
and targets in accordance with the policy set out above and EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS the rules of each plan including the treatment of delisted Each Executive Director is employed under a service contract companies for the purpose of the TSR Comparator Group with IG Group Limited a wholly-owned intermediate holding Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in company for the benefit of the Company and the Group.
the event of a change of control or reconstruction The period of notice for existing Executive Directors does Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified not exceed six months and, accordingly, Executive Directors categories for incentive-plan purposes, based on the rules employment contracts can be terminated on six months of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the notice by either party.
plan rules In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Adjustments required in certain circumstances eg rights Directors service contract other than in accordance with the issues, corporate restructuring, special dividends and on a terms of his or her contract, the committee will act in the best change of control interests of the Company and ensure there is no reward for Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, failure.
All service contracts are continuous, and contractual be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
As termination payments relate to the unexpired notice period.
appropriate, it might also be the subject of consultation with On a Directors departure, the Company may at its sole the Companys major shareholders.
discretion pay base salary and the value of any benefits Legacy arrangements including pension that would have been receivable in lieu For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the Directors of any unexpired period of notice.
In the event of termination Remuneration Policy, the Company has authority to honour for gross misconduct, the Company may give neither any commitments entered into with current or former notice nor a payment in lieu of notice.
Where the Company, Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders previously.
acting reasonably, believes it may have a right to terminate This includes awards made under the deferred bonus plan, employment due to gross misconduct, it may suspend the the value-sharing plan VSP and any other share plans executive from employment on full salary for up to 30 days to operated by the Company.
The Company may place an executive on gardening leave for up to the duration of the notice period.
During this time, the executive will be entitled to receive base salary and all contractual benefits including pension.
At the end of the | 78 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 000 3,000 81% Fixed pay SPP 2,500 81% 81% 2,000 68% 1,500 68% 68% 1,000 32% 19% 100% 500 100% 32% 19% 100% 32% 19% Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum T A Howkins C F Hill P G Hetherington gardening leave period, the Company may, at its discretion, yielding one third immediately and thereafter the remaining pay the executive base salary alone, in lieu of the balance of balance in equal parts on the first and second anniversary of any period of notice given by the Company or the executive.
When considering payments in the event of termination, For the purposes of any awards permitted to vest to leavers as the Remuneration Committee takes into account individual described above, the committee retains discretion to reduce circumstances.
Relevant factors include the reasons for the level of vesting that would otherwise result.
It may refer to termination, contractual obligations and the relevant incentive such time-based adjustments as it considers appropriate.
When determining any loss of office payment Where awards are granted in the form of options, any vested for a departing Director the committee will always seek to awards already held at the time of cessation ie vested awards minimise the cost to the Company while complying with the held outside the plan account but unexercised will remain contractual terms and seeking to reflect the circumstances exercisable for a limited period.
The exception is when in place at the time.
The committee reserves the right to dismissal has been for misconduct, in which case such awards make additional payments where such payments are made lapse in full.
in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or Value-sharing plan VSP awards legacy plan by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in As a general rule, awards which have not vested will connection with the termination of an Executive Directors lapse when employment ceases.
This may differ in certain office or employment.
circumstances when there is a good reason for leaving.
Examples include injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, For new executive appointments, the committee has the disposal of the participants employing company or discretion to offer a longer notice period of up to 12 months the business for which they work by the Group, or other to secure an appointment.
Any payments in lieu of notice will circumstances at the discretion of the committee.
The be at the committees discretion, and will be limited to base committee has the discretion to determine that an Executive salary and the value of benefits including pension as set Director is a good leaver.
In this case, the award will not lapse out above.
but will continue or, if the committee decides, will vest on Sustained performance plan awards cessation to the extent the performance condition is satisfied.
As a general rule, if a participant ceases to hold employment A time pro-rated reduction will apply unless the committee or be a Director within the Group, or gives notice of determines otherwise.
In the event of death, awards will vest leaving, they forfeit any entitlement to receive further plan at that time to the extent that performance, in the opinion of contributions.
All awards subsisting in their plan account at the committee, has been satisfied.
such time are forfeited in full.
Change of control However, the situation may be different if the participant The Executive Directors contracts do not provide for any ceases to be an employee or a Director within the Group enhanced payments in the event of a change of control under certain circumstances.
These include injury, disability, of the Company, nor for liquidated damages.
Copies of retirement, redundancy, the disposal of the participants the Executive Directors service contract are available for employing company or the business for which they work by inspection at the Companys registered office.
the Group, or other circumstances at the discretion of the committee.
In this case, participation in the plan will cease once the plan contributions in respect of the plan year in which the cessation arises are determined.
This will take into account the proportion of the full plan year worked.
Ordinarily, the participants plan account will then vest, | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY ACROSS THE COMPANY Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different We have designed the remuneration policy for the Executive performance measures may be set for the SPP for the year of Directors and senior management with regard to the joining the Board, taking into account the individuals role and policy for employees across the Company as a whole.
The responsibilities and the point in the year when they joined.
committee is kept updated through the year on general For an internal appointment, any variable pay element employment conditions, basic salary-increase budgets, granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out the level of bonus pools and payouts and participation in according to its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take into share plans.
The committee is therefore aware of how total account the terms of the Executive Director appointment.
The remuneration at the Executive Director level compares to the committee will carefully determine the base salary level for a total remuneration of the general population of employees.
new Executive Director, taking into account the individuals Common approaches to remuneration policy which apply background, skills and experience, and the business criticality across the Company include: and nature of the role being offered.
It will also consider the Consistency in pay for performance, with annual bonus Companys circumstances and relevant external and internal schemes being offered to the vast majority of employees benchmarks.
Above all, the committee must exercise its own judgement in determining the most appropriate salary for the Offering pension, medical and life assurance benefits for all new appointment.
employees, where practical given geographical location Ensuring that salary increases for each category of In certain circumstances, the committee will have set a employee are considered, taking into account the overall starting base salary which is positioned below the relevant rate of increase across the Company, benchmarking, and market rate.
It may then wish to adjust the Executive Directors Company and individual performance base salary, at a level above the average increase in the Company, as the individual gains experience and establishes Encouraging broad-based share ownership through the use a strong performance track record in the role.
Conversely, the of all-employee share plans, where practical base salary may need to be positioned above the relevant RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY market rate in order to attract the most appropriate candidate The committees overriding objective is to appoint Executive for the role.
Directors with the necessary background, skills and We will provide benefits in accordance with the approved experience to ensure the continuing success of the Company.
We may pay relocation expenses or allowances, We recognise that the pace of change and technology legal fees and other costs relating to the recruitment development in our industry, as well as the global nature as appropriate.
of IG Group, mean that the right individuals may often be highly sought-after.
We will set fees for a new Non-Executive Director or Chairman in accordance with the approved policy.
We set the remuneration package for a new Executive Director in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration policy, as detailed on page 79 of the Directors Remuneration Report, subject to the additional provisions described below.
The maximum level of variable remuneration excluding any buyout arrangements that we can offer to a new executive on an annual basis will be in accordance with the sustained performance plan limit, being 500% of salary.
In many cases, where we make an external appointment, the individual will forfeit incentive awards connected with their previous employment on resignation.
The committee may therefore decide to offer further cash or share-based payments to buy-out these existing entitlements by making awards of a broadly equivalent value, in the committees view.
These awards can be made either under the Companys existing incentive plans or via other arrangements.
In determining the appropriate form and amount of any such award, the committee will consider various factors.
These include the type and quantum of award, the length of the performance period and the performance and vesting conditions attached to each forfeited incentive award.
| 80 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Non-Executive Directors.
PURPOSE AND PERFORMANCE RECOVERY OR OPERATION OPPORTUNITY LINK TO STRATEGY METRICS WITHHOLDING To attract and retain The Remuneration The Chairman No performance No recovery or Non-Executive Committee receives a single metrics apply.
Directors of determines the fee fee to cover all their appropriate calibre for the Chairman Boardduties.
without the Non-Executive Chairman present.
Directors receive The Board is a fee for carrying responsible for out their duties.
setting NonThey may receive Executive Directors additional fees fees.
The Nonif they chair the Executive Directors primary Board are not involved in Committees, and for any discussions or holding the post of decisions by the Senior Independent Board about their Director.
Committee Fees are within membership fees the limits set by may be paid.
the articles of Details of current fee association and levels are set out in take account of the the Annual Report commitment and on Remuneration.
responsibilities of the relevant role.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts: they are engaged by letters of appointment.
Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for an initial term of three years subject to re-election, but the appointment can be terminated on three months notice.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The committee engages proactively with the Companys major shareholders.
For example, when making any material changes to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee Chair will inform major shareholders of these in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss details as required.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY In setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company.
The Group operates in a number of different environments, and has many employees who carry out diverse roles across a number of countries.
All employees, including Directors, are paid by reference to the market rate, and base salary levels are reviewed regularly.
When considering salary increases for Directors, the Company will be sensitive to pay and employment conditions across the wider workforce, however no remuneration comparison measurements have been utilised to date.
The committee does not formally consult with employees on the executive remuneration policy.
The committee is periodically updated on pay and conditions applying to employees across the Company.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 81 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This part of the report includes a summary of how we implemented the policy in the financial year ended 31 May 2015 including payment and awards in respect of incentive arrangements, and how we will apply the remuneration policy for the financial year ending 31 May 2016.
We also give details of the Remuneration Committees operation, the Directors share interests and how shareholders voted at the 2014 AGM.
As in previous years, and consistent with the previous legacy arrangements, his SPP opportunity is based on his full-time equivalent salary.
As of 1 June 2015, P G Hetherington has ceased the flexible working arrangement and accordingly his salary from this date will revert to the full-time amount.
2 J R Davie ceased to be Chairman at the 2014 AGM held on 16 October 2014 and D M Jackson ceased to be a director on 16 October 2014.
3 A Green joined the Group as Deputy Chairman on 9 June 2014 and succeeded J R Davie as Chairman at the 2014 AGM.
4 Executive Directors benefits can include private medical cover, discounted gym membership and life assurance cover.
Following an internal review, certain Non-Executive Directors expenses relating to the performance of a directors duties such as travel to and from company meetings and related accommodation have been classified as taxable benefits.
In such cases, the Company will ensure that the director is kept whole by settling the expense and any related tax.
In line with the regulations, these taxable benefits have been disclosed and are shown in the benefits in kind column, with a consequential restatement of the prior year comparatives.
The figures shown include the cost of the taxable benefit plus the related personal tax charge.
5 The Group contributes 15% of basic salary to personal pensions for each of the Executive Directors, who also have the option to receive part, or all, of their pension entitlement in cash.
The additional cash payment is counted in lieu of pension, and is not treated as base salary for the purposes of calculating other benefits.
THowkins elected to restrict pension contributions to 40,000 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash payment.
C Hill elected to restrict pension contributions to 40,000 and receive the balance of the pension contribution as an additional cash payment.
P Hetherington elected to receive the full pension contribution as an additional cash payment.
6 Figures provided are the values of the SPP plan contributions in respect of performance for the periods ending 31 May 2015 and 31 May 2014 ie Plan Years 2 and 1.
The vested element is the proportion of the Plan Year contribution for the relevant period that vests shortly following the end of the financial year.
The deferred element is the proportion that remains deferred in the plan account.
Details of SPP awards held in the Plan Account, both vested and unvested, are provided in the Outstanding Share Awards table on page 86.
7 The 2011 VSP awards had a performance period ending 31 May 2014.
Half the awards vested on 22 July 2014 with the remaining vesting on 21 July 2015.
The value of these awards provided in last years remuneration report was based on an estimated share price.
We have restated the amounts now as 2014 prior year comparatives using the actual share price on 22 July 2014 619.5p, for half the awards and the average three-month share price for period ended 31 May 2015 740.9p for the remaining awards.
The 2012 VSP awards had a performance period ending 31 May 2015.
Performance was below threshold for both the PBT and TSR metrics and therefore this award lapsed.
| 82 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 DETERMINATION OF SPP PLAN CONTRIBUTION FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2015 Performance targets for Plan Year 2 financial year ending 31 May 2015 comprised Diluted Earnings per Share DEPS targets, Total Shareholder Return TSR and non-financial measures.
TSR performance was measured over the 2-year period from 1 June 2013 to 31 May 2015 and DEPS and non-financial measures over the financial year ending 31 May 2015.
Threshold Plan Potential as a 25% payout contribution as Performance percentage of for TSR and Maximum Actual percentage of measure Weighting base salary 0% for DEPS 100% payout performance base salary 35.99 pence DEPS 45% 225% 40.18 pence 44.20 pence 0% vesting 0% TSR 35% 175% Median ranking Upper-quartile 98 of 291 130% ranking companies 74.5% vesting Non-financial 20% 100% See commentary on page 84 76% Total 100% 500% 206% PERFORMANCE MEASURES HOW THESE ARE SET AND REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2015 AUDITED Diluted earnings per share 45% weighting At the start of the 2015 financial year, the committee established a diluted earnings per share DEPS range for the purposes of performance measurement and consequentially payout under the SPP.
This was demanding given the strategic investment the business is making in new technology, products and geographies.
In setting the DEPS range, the committee considered the costs of planned investment in strategic objectives, the actual DEPS for the year ended 31 May 2014 of 40.18 pence and analyst DEPS consensus for 2015.
Notwithstanding the strong underlying performance of the Group over the year, the negative financial impact of the Swiss franc movement meant that actual DEPS for the year ended 31 May 2015 of 35.99 pence was below the threshold target and therefore none of the potential award under this measure was granted.
In setting the DEPS range for the year ending 31 May 2016, the committee has taken into account a number of relevant factors including internal and external considerations and an appropriate degree of challenge on prior year performance after taking account of the impact of the Swiss franc event.
Total shareholder return 35% weighting Under the Total Shareholder Return measure, a median ranking against the FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts would result in 25% of this element being granted with the full award being granted for upper quartile ranking or better.
The award to be granted for performance between median and upper quartile would be determined on a straight line basis between these points.
In respect of the award to be granted in respect of Plan Year 2, TSR was measured over the two-year period from 1 June 2013 to 31 May 2015.
Actual TSR performance for IG Group, as measured by New Bridge Street, for the two-year period was 48.2%.
Against the peer group this performance was sufficient to rank IG Group at 98 out of 291 companies and resulted in 74.5% of the potential payout under this measure being awarded.
Non-financial measures The committee approved a basket of non-financial measures comprising strategic goals as well as operational and client satisfaction measures for the year ended 31 May 2015.
These measures are also utilised for an element of the staff general bonus pool.
These measures, and the assessment of performance, for the year ended 31 May 2015 are set out in the following table.
An average of the performance under the specific non-financial measures combined with performance under the execution and delivery measure resulted in an overall assessment of 76% of the potential payout under this element of the plan being awarded.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 83 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES System The main measures used to assess performance against this metric are core dealing 65% availability per month and maximum percentage downtime in any one day.
The Group reliability FY14 85% strives to achieve 99.8% for the first measure and less than 4.0% for the second measure.
uptime During the year, core dealing availability per month was breached on one occasion April 2015 and maximum downtime was breached on two occasions in August 2014 and April 2015.
For the majority of the year core dealing availability was very high.
The main system outage and breach of the Groups availability target was due to a software flaw in a new reporting tool measures have been taken to remedy this.
Overall, system reliability was marginally down from the prior year 99.95% versus 99.97% as shown in the Key Performance Indicators section of the Strategic Report.
The availability of the dealing platform is very important in terms of client confidence of trading with IG and the Group will continue to undertake work in this area to ensure a consistently high level of platform uptime is maintained.
92.5% Maintaining The Group continues to maintain constructive and open relationships with regulators and FY15 was a good year from a regulatory perspective.
FY14 90% good standing relationships The Group continues to have strong relations with all regulators.
During FY15, IG successfully obtained licences in Switzerland and Dubai, both of which involved very with regulators stringent application processes and represented significant achievements.
In addition, there were no regulatory incidents during the year.
Customer The Remuneration Committee uses a number of indicators to measure performance 85% against this metric.
satisfaction FY14 80% Net Promoter Score NPS data is tracked by the syndicated Investment Trends studies and is a measure of how likely clients are to recommend IG to others.
Over the last year the Group has seen improvement in Australia, France and Germany while Singapore remained unchanged.
The UK on the other hand saw a drop in NPS but was ranked first for Spread Betting.
The reasons for this drop in satisfaction are considered to have been remedied.
Please refer to the Key Performance Indicators section of the Strategic Report for more information on NPS.
During the year, the Group once again commissioned an independent study to conduct a mystery shopping programme among IG and a number of competitors in the UK.
The study consisted of ten cases being raised with each provider where they were challenged with the same questions or scenarios.
Each case was scored against desired behaviours expected from the case handler.
The result of the study shows that the Group performed consistently well in most categories and ranked first in overall scoring with a 30% lead against the Groups main competitor.
The Group continued to run IG Think Tank, an online community and forum which supports engagement with clients and the inclusion of their feedback into the IT development cycle.
This has led to better IG apps development, mobile charting functionalities, and more informative news feeds.
IG brand awareness continued to improve with almost 50% of online investors naming the Group when asked to state the different providers they have heard of.
With the launch of stockbroking, recognition of the brand grew 14%, which was a significant achievement given the timeframe.
During the year, the Group also established a senior management forum to discuss and address the latest client insights and feedback a process that has already led to a number of key client wishes having been addressed or where solutions are in progress.
Reputation The Remuneration Committee assessed whether there have been any events resulting 65% in negative media coverage or reputational damage during the year.
FY14100% The Group and the industry as a whole experienced adverse press coverage in the aftermath of the Swiss National Bank decision to remove the Swiss francs peg to the euro.
Additionally, the industry also saw some scrutiny from the regulators following some concerns raised regarding the operations of some competitors.
The Groups PR team and external advisors are considered to have done well in mitigating the poor PR and reputational impact.
| 84 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 METRIC PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT SPECIFIC NON-FINANCIAL MEASURES CONTINUED Risk The impact of the Swiss franc event was significant and resulted in material financial 0% FY14100% management losses for the Group.
However, the Group was satisfied with the response of the risk management systems in terms of the identification of the issues, the speed of which the losses were quantified and the subsequent communication made with stakeholders.
Furthermore, the Group made considerable progress across a number of risk management areas during the year through the newly established Board Risk Committee.
Nevertheless, the Remuneration Committees assessment is that the negative impact on our shareholders resulting from the Swiss franc event should result in a zero score for this metric.
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF KEY STRATEGIC INITIATIVES Execution and As part of the Boards strategy planning, there is a clear plan of strategic projects 90% FY1490% delivery of provided to the Remuneration Committee at the start of the year, which details the key strategic underlying projects set for delivery in the short-to-medium term.
The Remuneration initiatives Committee uses this plan to judge performance and managements execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives.
There were a number of key strategic projects delivered during the year.
Examples of the projects include: Stockbroking Successfully launched in the UK in September 2014 including ISAs and use of stock as collateral for shorter-term trading from November 2014.
It was rolled out internationally in the Netherlands in March 2015 and further launches are expected later this calendar year.
Switzerland The Group received a licence from FINMA, the Swiss regulator, in September 2014 for Switzerland and the business went live the following month.
Dubai Another significant milestone was the licence from the DFSA, the Dubai Regulator, which was obtained in principle in May 2015. gTLD The Groups first gTLD was made available in May 2015 with the remainder to go live sequentially in the first quarter of FY16.
Significant progress has been made on a number of projects which was not envisaged at the start of the financial year each of which has been progressed without disruption to the key strategic projects noted above.
There has also been significant progress towards several other strategic projects which remain work in progress.
The outcome will be disclosed once they cease to be commercially sensitive.
Overall summary Based on performance for the financial year ending 31 May 2015, we will grant awards under the SPP to the value of 206% of base salary 41% of the maximum potential payout as plan contributions to the Executive Directors after the announcement of the results.
The actual number of shares that will be deposited within the Directors plan accounts will be based on the ten-day average share price immediately prior to grant.
LEGACY VALUE-SHARING PLAN VESTING IN RELATION TO PERFORMANCE PERIOD ENDING 31 MAY 2015 The legacy Value-Sharing Plan VSP, which was approved by shareholders in 2010, comprises annual awards.
It provides the Executive Directors and other senior staff with a pre-defined number of shares for each 10.0 million of surplus shareholder value created over three years above a hurdle.
Surplus shareholder value was calculated under two criteria: Total Shareholder Return TSR and Profit before Taxation PBT.
In relation to the final award made under the plan on 1 August 2012, statutory PBT fell by 13% to 169.5 million, following the impact of the Swiss franc underlying PBT grew by 4% and a TSR of 88.4% over the three-year period ended 31 May 2015 none of the award vested.
Further detail is provided overleaf.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 85 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The calculation of surplus shareholder value in relation to this plan is explained below: i TSR element 60% : This is based on the value created from the difference between the Total Shareholder Return TSR of IG Group Holdings plc and that of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index, multiplied by the IG Group Holdings plc starting market capitalisation.
Despite a TSR of 88.4% over the three-year period ending 31 May 2015 measured by Kepler Associates there was no vesting under this element of the scheme as this performance was below that of the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index of 120.6%.
ii Profit before taxation 40% : This is based on the growth in PBT over the three-year period, multiplied by a fixed multiple determined by the IG Group Holdings plc starting market capitalisation, plus net equity cash flows to shareholders above a hurdle return.
The multiple for the 2012 VSP was 8.83.
This is derived by dividing the starting market capitalisation of 1,636 million by the PBT for the year ending 31 May 2012 185.7 million.
The required hurdle return was 12% per annum.
PBT for the final year of the three-year performance period ending 31 May 2015 of 169.5 million together with net equity cash flows to shareholders did not result in the generation of a shareholder value when compared to the required hurdle return at which vesting commences.
That is the growth in PBT and dividend return over the three-year performance period was below the required 12% per annum hurdle rate and accordingly there was no vesting under this element of the scheme.
AWARDS GRANTED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2015 AUDITED The SPP awards granted during the financial year ending 31 May 2015 in respect of performance to 31 May 2014 Plan Year 1 are as follows.
Contribution Number of options Number of options Value of Number in the plan account Number of options in the plan account % of options of options after plan year 1 vested and exercised at the end of the 1 salary awarded awarded contribution during the year year T A Howkins 271% 1,245,965 204,290 204,290 81,716 122,574 C F Hill 271% 872,035 142,980 142,980 57,192 85,788 P G Hetherington 271% 934,812 153,273 153,273 61,309 91,964 1 The number of options contributed to the plan account was based on the 10-day average share price immediately post the announcement date of the Group results for the year ended 31 May 2014 of 610 pence per share.
Awards were granted in the form of nil cost options.
Awards were based on performance achieved and are therefore subject to continued employment and subject to the satisfaction of the underlying financial performance underpin to be tested at the end of Plan Year 5 as set out in the remuneration policy.
Details of the outstanding SPP share awards, using an estimate of the options to be granted in respect of Plan Year 2 i. e. performance to 31 May 2015 are set out below.
OUTSTANDING SHARE AWARDS Sustained performance plan Options awarded as dividend Estimated equivalents Plan cumulative accruing on contribution Estimated number of unvested in respect of number of unvested Plan account options year ending options vesting options brought during the 31 May 2015 Plan account 40% following remaining in forward year estimated following determination plan account number of number of number of contribution of plan year 2 at the end of 1 2 Event shares options shares for the year contributions plan year 2 T A Howkins Plan year 2 122,574 5,825 124,695 253,094 101,238 151,856 C F Hill Plan year 2 85,788 4,077 87,276 177,141 70,856 106,285 P G Hetherington Plan year 2 91,964 4,371 93,561 189,896 75,958 113,938 1 Executive Directors will be granted awards in respect of Plan Year 2 following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2015 on 21 July 2015.
The share price used to calculate the number of awards to be granted will be the ten-day average share price immediately following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2015 on 21 July 2015.
As the actual average share price is not known at the time of signing of the Annual Report, the above number of awards has been estimated using a share price of 781.5 pence, being the share price on 29 May 2015.
Share awards have an exercise price of 0.005 pence and are exercisable until August 2024.
2 In accordance with the scheme rules 40% of the cumulative awards in the Plan Account after the contributions in respect of Plan Year 2 will vest in August 2015 with the vesting of the remaining options deferred.
The August 2015 vesting will include additional dividend shares accrued as follows in respect of Plan Year 1 awards held in the Plan Account TA Howkins 5,825, C F Hill 4,077 and P G Hetherington 4,371 based on reinvestment at the dividend payment date.
| 86 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Other share awards Number vested Share Number Number Number Number but not price at Number awarded lapsed exercised outstandexercised Award award as at 31 during during the during ing at 31 at 31 date date May 2014 the year year the year May 2015 May 2015 T A Howkins VSP: Profit award three year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 17,057 17,057 VSP: Profit award four year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 17,057 17,057 17,057 VSP: Profit award three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 4,314 4,314 VSP: Profit award four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 4,314 4,314 VSP: Total shareholder return award three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 9,984 9,984 VSP: Total shareholder return award four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 9,985 9,985 VSP: Profit award three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 163,636 163,636 VSP: Profit award four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 163,636 163,636 VSP: Total shareholder return award three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 245,454 245,454 VSP: Total shareholder return award four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 245,453 245,453 Long-term bonus plan 2012 01 Aug 12 450.45p 109,938 109,938 Long-term bonus plan 2013 29 Jul 13 545.29p 38,000 38,000 1,028,828 818,179 179,293 31,356 17,057 Number vested Share Number Number Number Number but not price at Number awarded lapsed exercised outstandexercised Award award as at 31 during during the during ing at 31 at 31 date date May 2014 the year year the year May 2015 May 2015 C F Hill VSP: Profit award three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 2,589 VSP: Profit award four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 2,589 VSP: Total shareholder return award three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 5,990 VSP: Total shareholder return award four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 5,990 Share Incentive Plan 2012 partnership shares 27 Jul 12 419.18p 328 328 VSP: Profit award three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,909 130,909 VSP: Profit award four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,908 130,908 VSP: Total shareholder return award three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 196,363 VSP: Total shareholder return award four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 196,363 Share Incentive Plan 2013 partnership shares 26 Jul 13 555.19p 259 259 Long-term bonus plan 2013 29 Jul 13 545.29p 22,783 22,783 Share Incentive Plan 2014 partnership shares 25 Jul 14 556.26p 297 297 695,071 297 654,543 31,362 9,463 | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 87 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Number vested Share Number Number Number Number but not price at Number awarded lapsed exercised outstandexercised Award award as at 31 during during the during ing at 31 at 31 date date May 2014 the year year the year May 2015 May 2015 P G Hetherington VSP: Profit award four year 29 Oct 10 528.50p 10,661 10,661 VSP: Profit award three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 2,589 VSP: Profit award four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 2,589 2,589 VSP: Total shareholder return award three year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 5,990 VSP: Total shareholder return award four year 20 Jul 11 450.00p 5,990 5,990 VSP: Profit award three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,909 130,909 VSP: Profit award four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 130,908 130,908 VSP: Total shareholder return award three year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 196,363 VSP: Total shareholder return award four year 01 Aug 12 449.70p 196,363 196,363 Share Incentive Plan 2013 partnership shares 26 Jul 13 555.19p 258 258 Long term bonus plan 2013 29 Jul 13 545.29p 25,340 25,340 Share Incentive Plan 2014 partnership shares 25 Jul 14 556.26p 297 297 707,960 297 654,543 44,580 9,134 TABLE OF DIRECTORS SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED The share interests of each person who was a Director of the Company during the year as at 31 May 2015 together with interests held by his or her connected persons were as follows: Share % of salary Incentive held under Legally Plan VSP share shareholding 5 6 2 1 owned shares shares SPP awards option awards Total policy Vested but Vested but 31 May 31 May unexerunexer- 31 May 2014 2015 Un-vested cised Un-vested cised 2015 % salary Executive Directors T A Howkins 1,621,183 1,621,183 128,399 31,356 1,780,938 2,638% 4 C F Hill 35,131 43,928 1,181 89,865 8,579 143,553 107% 3 P G Hetherington 113,970 129,899 852 96,335 8,579 235,665 361% Non-Executive Directors A Green S G Hill 117,209 80,707 80,707 901% D M Jackson J A Newman S J Tymms R P Yates 25,000 25,000 25,000 279% 1 Calculated as shares owned on 29 May 2015 at the closing mid-market share price of 781.5p.
2 This figure excludes awards under the SPP scheme for performance year ending 31 May 2015 which will be granted following the announcement of the Groups results on 21 July 2015.
The awards held in the Plan Account include those in respect of Plan Year 1 as at 31 May 2015.
3 P Hetherington also held 10,000 preference shares at 31 May 2015 and 31 May 2014.
4 Of which 43,000 belong to Vanessa Hill.
5 This figure includes partnership shares that are purchased as part of the Groups Share Incentive Plan SIP which are not subject to vesting conditions and prior year figures have been restated.
6 This figure shows the number of matching shares held at 31 May 2015 as part of the Groups Share Incentive Plan SIP which will vest after three years from the respective award date, as long as employees remain employed by the Group.
| 88 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ending 31 May 2014.
Under this policy, the CEO is required to hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement of 100% of base salary applies.
There have been no changes to any of the Directors share interests in the period since 31 May 2015.
The awards to be made under the Companys SPP in respect of the performance period ending on 31 May 2015 are set out earlier in this report and are not included in this table.
CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE 1 Base salary Taxable benefits Performance based remuneration % % % % % % % % % Change Change Change Change Change Change Change Change Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 2013 2 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Chief Executive 2.83% 7.49% 3.14% 0% 0% 0% 32.34% 136.23% 64.62% Group employees 6.8% 5.91% 4.44% 6.44% 2.78% 19.08% 22.94% 13.09% 42.40% 1 For the Chief Executive, the change in remuneration has been restated to include all performance-based remuneration.
Remuneration is included in the financial year in which performance is measured against.
2 Given the move away from separate annual and long-term plans to a single variable pay plan in the 2014 financial year, the performance-based remuneration consists of the SPP award and legacy VSP plans only.
The change is calculated based on the change in the total of the SPP contribution for the plan year and the VSP vesting in that year.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS T Howkins is a member of the Board and Executive Committee of FIA Europe.
The Executive Directors have no other external appointments.
PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED No Director has departed, nor has there been a payment for loss of office during the year.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table sets out the profit, dividends and overall spend on pay over the last five financialyears: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 m m m m m Profit after tax 131.9 147.2 141.7 136.8 25.3 Dividends 102.8 102.8 84.6 81.6 72.0 Employee remuneration costs 94.3 89.3 86.3 92.7 75.5 Average number of employees 1,287 1,070 1,005 960 951 | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 89 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NBS was appointed following a review of advisors.
The REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITY committee considers the advice obtained from NBS to DURING THE YEAR be objective and independent.
NBS is a member of the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ALLOCATION Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its OF TIME Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective and impartial.
Salary and Bonus Scheme Arrangements STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING Incentive Awards AT 2014 AGM Remuneration regulation At the October 2014 AGM, resolutions were proposed for Remuneration reporting shareholders to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy, Remuneration policy the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year Other ended 31 May 2014 and the IG Group Long Term Incentive Plan.
The following votes were received: REMUNERATION 2014 Remuneration Policy COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS Total number of votes % of votes cast During the year, the committee undertook a questionnairebased review of its own effectiveness.
The evaluation process 1 For 292,271,643 96.20% was externally facilitated by Lintstock as part of the overall Against 11,550,602 3.80% annual Board effectiveness review.
Overall, the review concluded that the committee is effective and its performance Total 303,822,245 100% was rated highly.
The committee however could further Withheld 375,428 enhance its effectiveness with more training and support on regulatory changes in the area of remuneration and the 2014 Annual Report on implications for remuneration policy.
Renumeration Total number ADVICE TO THE COMMITTEE of votes % of votes cast During the financial year ended 31 May 2015 the committee 1 For 300,876,365 99.54% consulted T Howkins, Chief Executive, about remuneration Against 1,390,389 0.46% matters relating to individuals other than himself.
The Company Secretary also provided advice and support to Total 302,266,754 100% the committee.
Withheld 1,930,919 Appropriate Company employees and external advisers may attend committee meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
IG Group Long Term Incentive Plan EXTERNAL ADVISORS Total number The Remuneration Committee was advised during the year of votes % of votes cast by New Bridge Street NBS, which was appointed following a 1 For 298,686,270 98.34% competitive tender process in early 2013.
Against 5,045,504 1.66% NBS provided advice in respect of a wide range of issues, including advice on the operation of the Sustained Total 303,731,774 100% Performance Plan, TSR performance monitoring, drafting the Withheld 375,902 - Remuneration Report, remuneration benchmarking and share plan implementation services.
1 For includes votes at the Chairmans discretion.
NBSs fee for advice provided to the Remuneration A majority over 50% of the votes cast was required for Committee during the financial year ending 31 May 2015 was the resolutions to be passed, and all were duly approved 58,000 excluding VAT.
| 90 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN CHART The chart below shows the Companys TSR performance compared with that of the FTSE 350 index.
As IG Group is a member of this index, the committee believes it is appropriate to compare the Groups performance against it.
500 IG Group FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Financial Services 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 May 09 May 10 May 11 May 12 May 13 May 14 May 15 Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters The graph represents the change in the value of a nominal investment of 100, made on 1 June 2009, in the Company and in the FTSE 350 index.
The closing values at 31 May 2015 represent the value of each nominal holding at that date, and reflect the change in the share price and the value of dividend income reinvested over the period.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE EARNINGS HISTORY The five-year earnings history of the Chief Executive is shown in the table below: 2 Financial year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Single-figure remuneration 000 1,628 1,141 2,201 1,103 1,970 1,519 Annual bonus outcome % maximum 100% 7% 99% 47% LTIP vesting outcome % maximum 48% 40% 61% 1 VSP vesting outcome % maximum 6% 3% 0% 1 SPP plan contribution % maximum 54% 41% 1 The SPP replaced the annual bonus and VSP schemes from the financial year ending 31 May 2014.
2 The 2011 VSP awards had a performance period ending 31 May 2014.
We have restated the amounts now as 2014 prior year comparatives using the actual share price on 22 July 2014 619.5 pence, for half the awards and the average three month share price for period ending 31 May 2015 740.9 pence for the remaining awards.
| IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 91 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2016 Base salaries Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually by the committee.
The Remuneration Committee decided to increase base salaries by 3% for the forthcoming year.
Base salary is the only pensionable component.
The base salaries as at 1 June 2015 and increases from the prior year are: 2015 2016 Increase T A Howkins 472,200 486,400 3% C F Hill 330,500 340,400 3% 1 P G Hetherington 354,300 364,900 3% 1 In 2015 P G Hetherington was paid a reduced pro rata salary of 283,400 calculated as 80% of his full-time equivalent salary of 354,300 to reflect his flexible working arrangements.
In 2016, there is no pro rata reduction as P G Hetheringtons flexible working arrangements will no longer apply.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees were last reviewed in July 2014.
There are no changes to fee levels for the forthcoming year and the fee levels for 2016 are: Chairman: 235,000 unchanged from the financial year ended 31 May 2015.
The fee was set by the committee after taking into account the experience of the individual and Chairman fee levels in the market.
Non-Executive Director base fee: 55,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee additional fee: 15,000 Chairman of Board Risk Committee additional fee: 15,000 Combined role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director fee: 15,000.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will not receive an additional fee.
Benefits and pension We will provide benefits and pension in line with the information set out in the Policy Table on page 72 pension to a maximum of 15% of base salary, cash of equivalent value or a mixture of both.
| 92 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 Sustained performance plan For the awards to be granted in respect of Plan Year 3, which will end on 31 May 2016, maximum opportunity of 500% of annual rate of base salary will apply for Executive Directors.
The performance targets for these awards are as follows: MEASUREMENT MEASURE FURTHER DETAIL WEIGHTING PERIOD PLAN YEARS Diluted The committee has determined a sliding scale of Financial year ending 45% earnings targets that will apply for the financial year ending 31 May 2016. per share 31 May 2016.
Relative Performance is measured against constituents of The two financial years 35% Total the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts.
Shareholder of this element will be awarded if performance is Return below median.
25% will be awarded for median, increasing on a straight-line basis, with full vesting for upper-quartile performance or better.
The committees discretion to scale back vesting will apply as set out in the Policy Report.
NonThe measures will include: Financial year ending 20% financial 31 May 2016.
System reliability measures Maintaining good standing with regulators Customer satisfaction Reputation and PR Risk management Execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives The committee will ensure the EPS and non-financial targets are suitably stretching.
We deem the EPS and non-financial measures themselves to be commercially sensitive, and will not disclose these prospectively.
However, we will provide retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them in next years remuneration report.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 July 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Roger Yates Chair, Remuneration Committee | IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 93
