70 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Our Our rrememuneruneration ation fr frame amew work is designed t ork is designed to o cr creat eate a c e a clear link betw lear link between een the deliv the deliver ery of our str y of our strat ategic egic priorities and r priorities and re ew war ard.
d. Cathr Cathryn Rile yn Riley y Chair Chair 2015 objectives 2015 achievements 2016 objectives Review of executive remuneration Review concluded that no changes Thorough review of Directors framework against market practice to Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy ahead of and governance requirements.
required for 2016, pending shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM.
Review and simplifi cation of existing LTIP arrangements in light of expiry of PSP rules in 2017.
Committee members Remuneration review In making decisions about remuneration, the Committee Cathryn Riley Chair from 1 January 2016 is mindful that 2015 was a year of mixed progress and one Tony Hales Chair until 31 December 2015 where our strategic priorities have continued to evolve.
Jayne Almond from 24 September 2015 Our current executive remuneration framework is Richard Moat intended to strike an appropriate balance between Nicholas Page until 17 December 2015 fi xed and variable components and provide a clear link between pay and our key strategic priorities.
Executive director and senior management rewards have a substantial performance-related element, with targets Dear shareholder, incentivising the delivery of the strategy over the short On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our and long term, balancing the interests of employees Remuneration Report for 2015, my fi first as the Chair of the and long-term shareholders.
The annual bonus for the Remuneration Committee.
As the new Chair, I would like executive directors is targeted 50 50 between fi financial to pay tribute to Tony Hales leadership of the Committee measures and personal objectives linked to achievement for the past fi five years.
The maximum possible outcome based on their personal objectives is capped at the One of my main objectives for 2016 is to oversee a amount achieved under the fi financial measures element.
comprehensive review of our directors remuneration Two-thirds of the total bonus amount is deferred for three framework in line with the requirement to renew our years in Company shares that are eligible for a matching existing LTIP arrangements and current Remuneration award subject to performance conditions.
Both the Policy, both of which will expire in 2017.
The Committee matching awards and the LTIP scheme are designed also recognises the increasingly common expectation to motivate and reward longer-term performance and of investors that vested share awards be subject to incentivise absolute shareholder value creation additional holding periods as refl ected in the latest through a mix of measures.
Investment Association Principles of Remuneration and the general direction towards simplifi cation of incentives.
During the year, with our remuneration consultants While the Committee currently remains content with support, we undertook a review of the above framework the existing 50% deferred vesting and shareholding against market and best practice governance requirements, both of these drivers will feature heavily requirements.
The Committee was particularly keen in the remuneration review to be carried out during to ensure that the incentive arrangements remained 2016.
We will consult with investors regarding any suffi ciently motivating for management whilst at the proposed changes to arrangements.
same time refl ecting the interests and concerns of shareholders and the evolved strategy.
The Committee Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 71 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 also noted the revisions to the Corporate Governance established the executive directors bonus Code in relation to performance adjustment or postarrangements for 2016: and vesting clawback for executive directors variable pay.
set bonus targets for the executive directors for 2016.
Such provisions had already been included into our framework and the Remuneration Policy approved at Key decisions for 2016 our 2014 AGM.
The conclusion of the review was that no The Committee has reviewed the base salary of the changes to the current framework were required for 2016. executive directors and there will be no increases for 2016.
There will be no substantial changes in remuneration We did not propose a resolution to approve any changes policy for 2016.
All maximum opportunities will remain to the policy at the 2015 AGM.
In light of the 2016 strategic the same in 2016 as in 2015. review referred to above, we do not intend to propose such a resolution at the 2016 AGM, but our intention is to put The Committee approved the redundancy terms for forward a revised policy for approval at our 2017 AGM.
We intend to carry out a further detailed review of the Remuneration for 2015 executive remuneration framework during 2016 with Details of the remuneration decisions for 2015 are set the objectives of rationalisation and simplification as out in the Annual Report on Remuneration starting on well as ensuring a continued link between strategy, page 79.
In summary, for the year ended 31 December performance and reward.
2015, profit before tax and exceptional items was 116.1 In line with best practice, we also intend to review million.
The acquisition of MCB Finance Group plc was and re-tender for the independent external advisors successfully completed in February 2015 followed by to the Committee.
the creation of IPF Digital.
This year also saw increased regulatory pressures and higher levels of competition Remuneration disclosure in our European markets in particular.
Overall, financial This report complies with the requirements of the Large performance during the year remained robust and and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations profit before tax growth on an underlying basis before 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK exceptionals and additional investment in IPF Digital and Corporate Governance Code September 2014 negative FX impact was 10%.
Consequently, the outcomes and the Listing Rules.
on the financial performance measures of the annual At the 2014 AGM, we received strong support from our bonus were strong and would ordinarily have resulted in a shareholders for our first Directors Remuneration Policy bonus of 42.8% of salary.
The Chief Executive Officer noted under the new reporting regulations, with a 97.1% vote however that shareholders had suffered a significant in favour.
This followed an assurance published on our decline in the Companys share price during the year website in relation to the use of discretion in retention and therefore recommended that the formulaic bonus arrangements, which is intended to be binding outcomes that would have been warranted by the profit throughout the duration of the policy.
The Directors before tax objectives should be reduced from 42.8% to Remuneration Policy included in last years report was 25%, with a corresponding reduction in the maximum as approved at the 2014 AGM, updated to reflect the amount that could be achieved on the personal latest data and also the assurance mentioned above.
The Committee accepted the Chief Executive Once again, the policy is reproduced in full in this years Officers recommendation in respect of the proposed report for ease of reference, updated to reflect the reduction in bonus and this resulted in a total 45% of latest data.
the Chief Executive Officers maximum bonus 45% of salary, 31.7% of the Chief Financial Officers maximum Consistent with last year, the report is presented in bonus 31.7% of salary and 25% of the Chief Commercial two sections: Officers maximum bonus 25% of salary paying out the Directors Remuneration Policy pages 72 to 78 for 2015, with one-third delivered in cash and two-thirds contains details of the remuneration policy that deferred in Company shares for the Chief Executive received shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM: and Officer and the Chief Financial Officer as per the approved policy.
the Annual Report on Remuneration pages 79 to 85 sets out how our remuneration policy was implemented The main activities of the Committee during the year were: for the year ended 31 December 2015 and how we assessed performance of executive directors and intend for the policy to apply for the year ended determined annual bonuses for 2015: 31 December 2016. approved share awards for 2015: At the AGM to be held in May 2016: approved the director fees for Jayne Almond and the Directors Remuneration Policy will not be put to John Mangelaars: a binding shareholder vote, having received 97.1% reviewed remuneration benchmarking and set approval at the 2014 AGM: and base salaries for executive directors: the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to with the support of our remuneration consultants an advisory shareholder vote.
Kepler Associates, reviewed the executive We hope to receive your support at the AGM.
remuneration framework against market and best practice governance requirements: considered remuneration market trends and corporate governance developments: Cathryn Riley Chair 72 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Remuneration policy table The table below sets out the remuneration policy that received shareholder approval and became effective on 30 April 2014.
The report below is as disclosed in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report except for a number of minor clarifications as follows: references to financial years have been updated as appropriate: pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reflect 2016 salaries: and the section on Directors service agreements has been updated with details of current directors service contracts and engagement letters.
Summary of remuneration policy for executive directors How the element supports our Operation of the element Maximum potential value and payment at threshold Performance metrics used, weighting and strategic objectives time period applicable Base salary To attract and retain talent Base salary is paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
Normally salary increases take into account increases awarded across the Group and None, although overall performance of the capable of delivering the are normally in line with increases awarded to UK employees.
individual is considered by the Committee Salaries are normally reviewed annually and any changes are effective generally from 1 April in Groups strategy.
when setting and reviewing salaries annually.
By exception, higher awards may be made at the Committees discretion to reflect Rewards executives for the individual circumstances.
For example: Salary levels are set taking into account role, experience, responsibility and performance, both of performance of their role.
the individual and the Company, and also taking into account market conditions and the salaries changes to role which increase scope and or responsibility: for comparable roles in similar companies.
development and performance in the role: and responding to competitive market pressures.
There is no prescribed maximum increase.
Pension To provide retirement funding.
The Company operates a stakeholder scheme: at the discretion of the Committee, this may be Company contribution is 20% of base salary.
The Company has closed its defined benefit scheme to new members.
David Broadbent is a deferred member.
Benefits To provide market-competitive The Company pays the cost of providing the benefits on a monthly, annual or one-off basis.
The standard benefit package includes: None.
benefits that support the executive All benefits are non-pensionable.
life assurance of 4x salary: directors to undertake their role.
car allowance: long-term disability cover: private medical cover for executive director and immediate family: and annual medical.
Additional benefits may also be provided in certain circumstances which may include relocation expenses, housing allowance and school fees.
Other benefits may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Annual bonus To motivate and reward Measures and targets are set annually and pay-out levels are determined by the Remuneration Maximum opportunity: 100% of base salary.
Performance is measured over the sustainable profit growth and Committee after the year end based on performance against those targets.
On target opportunity: 80% of base salary.
the achievement of specific The Remuneration Committee may, in exceptional circumstances, amend the bonus Performance is assessed using the following Threshold opportunity: 20% of base salary.
personal objectives linked to pay-out should this not, in the view of the Committee, reflect overall business performance criteria: 50% is based on achievement of the Companys strategy.
financial measures: and 50% is based on An element of compulsory achievement of personal objectives linked Two-thirds of the total bonus amount is deferred for three years in Company shares.
The remaining deferral to provide a link to to achievement of the Company strategy.
Payments are made around three months after the end of the financial year the creation of sustainable The award for achievement of personal to which they relate.
objectives is conditional upon achievement Deferred shares normally vest after three years and may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any of the financial measures i. e. the maximum variation of share capital, in accordance with the plan rules.
achievable on the personal objectives On the vesting of awards, executive directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the cannot exceed the amount achieved dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number under the financial measures element.
of shares which have vested.
There are provisions for clawback in the event of a restatement or material misjudgement of performance.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 73 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Executive directors The remuneration of executive directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account Group performance, individual performance and competitive market practice as well as the pay and conditions of our employees and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals.
The total annual remuneration of executive directors comprises base salary, a cash bonus and deferred bonus shares, shares granted under long-term incentive plans, pension provisions and other benefits.
74 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED How the element supports our Operation of the element Maximum potential value and payment at threshold Performance metrics used, weighting and strategic objectives time period applicable Deferred Share Plan DSP Share Matching Scheme To strengthen the link to the Deferred bonus share awards are eligible to receive matching shares on a one-for-one basis.
Vesting is dependent on service and performance conditions.
Matching shares vest on the same basis as creation of sustainable long-term for the PSP and CSOP.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to decide whether and to what extent targets have Maximum opportunity: one-for-one match on awarded shares two-thirds of bonus value creation provided under been met, and if an exceptional event occurs that causes the Committee to consider that the earned.
This is equivalent to up to 67% of salary for executive directors.
the deferred element of the targets are no longer appropriate, the Committee may adjust them.
25% of the award vests at threshold performance.
Awards may also be adjusted in the event of a variation of capital, in accordance with the plan rules.
On the vesting of awards, executive directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends paid or payable between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested.
The DSP has provision for clawback in the event of restatement of the Companys Financial Statements or a material misjudgement of performance.
Long-term Incentive Plans LTIP Performance Share Plan PSP and Approved Company Share Option Plan HMRC approved CSOP To motivate and reward longerAnnual grant of awards, part of which are under the CSOP, generally made as nil-cost options over In normal circumstances, annual award levels for executive directors are 125% of base Service and performance conditions must be term performance, and support a specific number of shares.
salary at the time of grant.
shareholder alignment through The Remuneration Committee has discretion to decide whether and to what extent targets have The rules of the plan permit annual individual grants of up to 150% of base salary.
Performance is assessed against three incentivising absolute shareholder been met, and if an exceptional event occurs that causes the Committee to consider that the independently measured metrics which The Committee retains the discretion to make awards up to the individual limit under value-creation.
targets are no longer appropriate, the Committee may adjust them.
are weighted equally: the plan and would expect to consult with significant investors if awards were to be Awards may also be adjusted in the event of a variation of capital, in accordance with the made routinely above normal levels, as the Committee did prior to increasing award 1 3 absolute TSR performance: plan rules.
1 3 cumulative EPS growth: and On vesting, 50% of shares that vest are available for exercise immediately and 50% are available Vesting is dependent on service and performance conditions.
1 3 growth in revenue less impairment.
The targets are set by the Committee.
Details On exercise of a nil-cost option following the first anniversary of the end of the vesting period, of the targets for awards granted in 2015 are executive directors receive an amount in cash equal to the dividends paid or payable in the set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
12 month period following vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested.
Targets for future years will be set out in the The PSP has provisions for clawback in the event of restatement of the Companys Financial Directors Annual Remuneration Report of Statements or a material misjudgement of performance.
A six-month averaging period is used for calculating TSR.
All-Employee Share Plan SAYE UK-based executive directors are entitled to participate in a UK tax approved all-employee plan, Participation limits are those set by the UK tax authorities from time to time.
Currently this The International Personal Finance plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, under is 500 per month.
which they make monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of an option over Company shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of share capital.
Shareholding requirement To support shareholder alignment Executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time.
The current shareholding requirement for executive directors is 200% of base salary.
by encouraging our directors to Shares which have vested unconditionally under the Companys equity schemes will be taken align with shareholders.
into account with effect from the date of vesting but not before.
50% of all share awards vesting under any of the Companys equity incentive schemes net of exercise costs, income tax and social security contributions must be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
Executive directors serving as non-executive directors To encourage self-development With the consent of the Board, executive directors may hold one non-executive directorship in and allow for the introduction of an individual capacity and will retain any fees earned.
Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply LTIP Awards made in 2011 and 2012 To motivate and reward longerThe outstanding awards under the LTIP will continue to form part of the remuneration policy Absolute TSR growth measure only, subject term performance, and support until vesting.
to the Committee being satisfied that the shareholder alignment through Companys absolute TSR performance is incentivising absolute shareholder a fair reflection of the performance.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 75 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 How the element supports our Operation of the element Maximum potential value and payment at threshold Performance metrics used, weighting and strategic objectives time period applicable Deferred Share Plan DSP Share Matching Scheme To strengthen the link to the Deferred bonus share awards are eligible to receive matching shares on a one-for-one basis.
76 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Non-executive directors The Board reviews non-executive directors fees periodically in the light of fees payable in comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals as non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors receive no other benefits and take no part in any discussion or decision concerning their own fees.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the Chairmans fees.
Fees were increased last on 1 October 2013 for the Chairman and 1 January 2014 for the non-executive directors.
Summary of remuneration policy for non-executive directors Element Purpose Operation Fees To attract and retain a Fees are paid on a per annum basis and are not varied for the number of days worked.
high-calibre Chairman The level of the Chairmans fee is reviewed periodically by the Committee and non-executive in the absence of the Chairman and the executive directors.
directors by offering The Chairman and executive directors review non-executive directors fees periodically market competitive fees.
in the light of fees payable in comparable companies or to reflect changes in scope of role and or responsibility.
As approved at the 2014 AGM, the maximum annual aggregate fee level for all non-executive directors allowed by the Companys Articles of Association is 650,000.
The Senior Independent Director and chairs of the Board committees are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra responsibilities.
Any non-executive director who performs services which, in the opinion of the Board, go beyond the ordinary duties of a director may be paid such additional remuneration as the Board may authorise.
Fees are paid on a quarterly basis.
Shareholding To support shareholder Non-executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding equivalent requirement alignment by encouraging to 100% of their directors fee within three years of appointment.
our directors to align with shareholders.
Notes to the policy table Total remuneration opportunity We have set out an illustration of the remuneration policy for 2016 Performance measures and targets in line with our remuneration policy above.
The Committee selects annual bonus performance conditions that are central to the achievement of the Companys key strategic The charts provide an illustration of the proportion of total initiatives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial remuneration made up by each component of the remuneration objectives.
To balance this, the performance conditions for the LTIP policy together with the value of each.
Benefits are calculated as are linked to long-term value creation: TSR aligns with our focus on per the single figure of remuneration and three scenarios have shareholder value creation: EPS provides strong line-of-sight for been illustrated for each executive director: Fixed, On target executives and supports our long-term strategy: and Revenue and Maximum.
less impairment supports our focus on sustainable growth.
The The charts are indicative, as share price movement and dividend performance targets are determined annually by the Committee accrual have been excluded.
Assumptions made for each scenario and are set typically at a level that is stretching and achievable, are as follows: taking into account our strategic priorities and the economic environment in which we operate.
Targets are normally set Fixed: fixed remuneration only i. e. latest known salary, benefits with reference to a range of data points, including the budget, and pension.
sell-side analyst forecasts, historical performance, and incentive On target: fixed remuneration plus on target annual bonus 80% performance ranges at the Companys comparators, plus threshold PSP DSP matching shares vesting assumes where disclosed.
deferral of two-thirds of target bonus into DSP.
The vesting assumption for the PSP and DSP has been changed from last The Board is of the opinion that the performance measures and years assumption from midpoint vesting 62.5% of maximum targets for the annual bonus are commercially sensitive and that to threshold vesting 25% of maximum in order to align better it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose with market practice.
them during the financial year.
This is particularly so because the majority of our competitors are unlisted.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus full pay-out of all incentives i. e. 100% of salary in annual bonus, 125% of salary in PSP and 67% of salary in DSP matching shares.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 77 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 CEO CFO Fixed Fixed 0.6M 0.4M On target On target 1.3M 0.8M Maximum Maximum 2.1M 1.3M 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 0 0.3 0.6 0.9 1.2 1.5 Base salary Benets Pension Annual bonus Matching shares LTIP Approach to recruitment remuneration In accordance with the policy approved at the The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration 2014 AGM, the Committee also reserves discretion, in is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate exceptional circumstances, to make additional ad hoc candidates to the role.
Starting salary will be set in incentives in order to respond to the potential loss of accordance with the approved remuneration policy, executive talent.
Such discretion would be used only based on a combination of market information, internal in genuinely exceptional circumstances, and any such relativities and individual experience.
Thereafter, salary awards would comprise an additional award under the progression will depend on the initial agreed base salary PSP.
See the assurance dated 17 April 2014 published and the normal review process.
on the AGM section of our website in this regard.
The maximum level and structure of ongoing variable Further, the Committee would ensure that the aggregate remuneration will be in accordance with the approved value of all PSP awards made during any one year, remuneration policy, i. e. at an aggregate maximum of up including any additional award made in reliance on this to 317% of salary 100% annual bonus, 150% PSP shares discretion, would not exceed 150% of salary, in line with and 67% matching shares under the DSP.
This limit does the disclosed maximum in the policy table.
not include the value of any buyout arrangements.
Directors service agreements and letters For external appointments, it may be necessary to buy of appointment out an individuals awards from a previous employer.
Historically we have appointed executive directors on We may offer additional cash and or share-based 12 month rolling contracts.
Accordingly, Gerard Ryan has elements when we consider these to be in the best a service contract terminable on this basis.
In 2014, we interests of the Company.
In doing so, the Committee changed our policy in relation to service agreements would ensure that any such payments have a fair value for newly appointed executive directors so that they are no higher than that of the awards forgone, and reflect the terminable upon six months notice.
Adrian Gardner was delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares and or options, the first to be appointed on this basis.
All non-executive time horizons and expected value i. e. likelihood of directors are appointed for three years, subject to meeting any existing performance criteria.
The initial three-year period share awards, if used, will be granted using existing share may be extended.
The Company can terminate the plans.
Wherever possible, any new arrangements will be appointment on three months notice.
tied into the achievement of Group targets in either both Our Articles of Association require that all directors the annual performance bonus and long-term incentives.
retire from office if they have not retired at either of the As shares under the normal long-term incentive scheme preceding two AGMs.
In any event, at the 2016 AGM, all will not be released for up to three years, some cashdirectors will be standing for election or re-election in based interim long-term arrangement may be provided, compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
but the level will not be more than would otherwise have Service agreements are available for inspection at the been paid.
This may be used as part of the buyout of Companys registered office.
Service agreements and existing arrangements.
letters of appointment are not reissued when base salaries or fees are changed.
Pension arrangements For internal appointments, any variable pay elements for all of the executive directors have also been awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to amended to align with the pension policy described pay out according to the terms of the scheme, adjusted in the remuneration table, without reissuing their as relevant to take account of the new appointment.
addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
78 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The dates of directors service agreements and letters of appointment are: Executive director Date of service agreement Gerard Ryan January 2012 Adrian Gardner January 2014 Non-executive director Date of current letter of appointment Tony Hales May 2013 Cathryn Riley February 2014 Dan OConnor January 2015 Jayne Almond June 2015 Richard Moat June 2015 John Mangelaars July 2015 Loss of office payments For all other leavers, outstanding PSP awards and Our policy is to limit severance payments on termination DSP matching shares will lapse.
The Committee retains to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the discretion to alter these provisions as permitted by the event that the employment of an executive director relevant plan rules on a case-by-case basis following is terminated, any compensation payable will be a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for determined having regard to the terms of the service both shareholders and participants.
contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees All employees are entitled to base salary and benefits Under normal circumstances, good leavers who do appropriate to the market in which they are employed.
not serve notice are eligible to receive termination The maximum opportunity available is based on the payments in lieu of notice based on base salary seniority and responsibility of the role.
LTIP awards are only available to senior management Normally we expect executive directors to mitigate their and directors.
In any specific case that may arise, the Committee will consider carefully any compensatory Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere payments having regard to performance, age, service, in the Company health or other circumstances that may be relevant.
In making remuneration decisions, the Committee also considers the general increases in base salaries taking In the event an executive director leaves for reasons of place within the Group.
While the Company does not death, injury, disability, change of control of the Company, consult directly with employees as part of the process or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute of reviewing executive pay, the Committee does receive discretion permits, any outstanding DSP matching shares and take account of employee engagement results as and PSP awards will normally vest at the end of the part of their overall assessment of executive director performance period and be pro-rated for time.
However, the Committee has the discretion to allow the award to vest Consideration of shareholder views on cessation of employment on a pro-rata basis if, in When determining remuneration, the Committee also the Committees view, the performance conditions are takes into account the guidelines of investor bodies and met at that point on a pro-rata basis.
The Committee considers these to be may vest the award on any other basis if it believes there of great importance.
are exceptional circumstances which warrant that.
For example, it can be in the interest of the Company for the The Committee continues to be mindful of shareholder Board to organise succession proactively and manage views when determining ongoing remuneration strategy an executive directors departure.
When determining and commits to undertaking shareholder consultation the treatment of outstanding awards in those cases, the in advance of any significant changes to Committee will take into account the executive directors remuneration policy.
level of performance and contribution to the transition.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 79 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Single figure for total remuneration audited information The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for directors for the financial years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015.
Further information about how the level of 2015 award was determined is provided in the additional disclosures section below.
2 The 2015 LTIP value is based on the DSP matching awards vesting in April 2016 and the PSP awards vesting in August 2016.
The awards have been valued based on estimated vesting and the 3-month average share price to 31 December 2015.
Further information about the level of vesting is provided in the additional disclosures section below.
3 The 2014 LTIP value has been restated from last year to include the DSP matching award that vested in March 2015 David Broadbent only, the CSOP award that vested in March 2015 Gerard Ryan only and the PSP awards that vested in March 2015 and August 2015.
These awards were based on performance periods that were substantially completed in 2014.
The value now excludes the DSP and LTIP awards that vested in March and July 2014.
Further information about the value of awards included and the corresponding level of vesting is also provided in the additional disclosures section below.
4 Tony Hales is Senior Independent Director and also chaired the Remuneration Committee during 2015.
In addition to his base fee, he was paid a fee of 20,000 per annum for this additional responsibility.
5 Nicholas Page chaired the Audit and Risk Committee until 24 September 2015, when he was succeeded by Richard Moat.
In addition to their base fee, they were paid a pro rata fee of 15,000 per annum for this additional responsibility.
6 Cathryn Riley chaired the Transformation for Growth Committee during 2015.
In addition to her base fee, she was paid a fee of 10,000 per annum for this responsibility.
Additional disclosures for single figure for total provided will exceed this level materially over the remuneration table remaining term of the remuneration policy.
Base salary Determination of 2015 annual bonus As reported last year, the Chief Executive Officers and the The maximum award for the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Chief Commercial Officers base salaries were increased Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer in 2015 was by 1% from 1 April 2015 to 505,000 and 332,168 100% of salary 80% of salary for on target performance respectively.
These increases were in line with the and 20% of salary for threshold performance.
The Chief Financial Officers base salary remained unchanged at 319,000.
During 2015, a balanced scorecard approach was used for the annual bonus whereby 50% of the bonus As reported on page 71, there will be no increases was calculated on pre-tax profit and, subject always to a to the base salaries of the executive directors in 2016. minimum profit threshold, the remaining 50% calculated against stretching personal performance objectives.
Benefits The award for achievement of personal performance The benefits provided to the executive directors in objectives is conditional upon achievement of the pre-tax 2015 included: private healthcare, life assurance, annual profit element i. e. the maximum achievable on the medical, long-term disability cover and a cash allowance personal performance objectives cannot exceed the in lieu of a company car.
None of the executive directors amount achieved under the pre-tax profit element.
received total taxable benefits exceeding 8% of salary in 2015, and it is not anticipated that the cost of benefits 80 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Pre-tax profit objectives Personal objectives Pre-tax profit targets were set taking into account Each director had individual objectives for 2015, together the Companys operating budget, external forecasts accounting for a maximum of 50% of the total bonus.
for the sector and sell-side analysts profit forecasts.
These objectives reflected key areas of focus for the Targets were designed to be stretching in order to business and those relevant to each directors business drive desired behaviours and increase motivation and area to ensure the strategic success of the Company.
The pre-tax profit targets adjusted for FX were: The table below includes examples of some of these threshold 108 million: on target 115.3 million: and personal objectives.
Director Examples of personal objectives 2015 Gerard Ryan successful acquisition and integration of MCB Finance plc: launch at least one new bond offer and refinancing existing non-sterling bonds: successful new product roll-outs: deliver the Transformation for Growth programme in a cost effective manner: and manage regulatory change.
Adrian Gardner develop product profitability model and MI: support the New Markets team with the roll-out of digital lending: manage and challenge the strategic business case for Transformation for Growth: and develop the finance function.
David Broadbent delivery of budgeted customer growth targets: ongoing management of the Companys Transformation for Growth programme: refinement of sales process and customer proposition: and strengthen the sales & service function.
Over the period, profit before tax and exceptional items warranted by the profit before tax objectives should was 116.1 million, which ordinarily would have given be reduced from 42.8% to 25%, with a corresponding rise to payment under the profit before tax measure of reduction in the maximum amount that could be between target and maximum.
However, in determining achieved on the personal objectives.
The Committee bonus outcomes for 2015, the Committee noted that also reviewed the performance of the Chief Executive shareholders had suffered a significant decline in the Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Companys share price during the year and therefore, Officer against their agreed personal objectives for 2015. following a recommendation from the Chief Executive The overall impact was that the total bonus that would Officer, exercised its discretion to determine that the otherwise have been payable to the executive directors formulaic bonus outcomes that would have been was reduced by 41.6% in each case.
After consideration, the Committee awarded bonuses to the executive directors in the amounts shown below for the year ended 31 December 2015: Financial Individual Cash and DSP objectives objectives DSP face value shares award achievement achievement of shares due to Total value of as a percentage as a percentage as a percentage Cash bonus vest in 2019 2015 annual of maximum of base salary of base salary 000 000 bonus bonus available Gerard Ryan 25% 20% 76 151 227 45.0% Adrian Gardner 25% 6.7% 34 67 101 31.7% David Broadbent 25% 0% 83 83 25.0% For Gerard Ryan and Adrian Gardner, the bonus was Pension payable one-third in cash, and two-thirds in deferred The Company has two pension schemes, the shares which will vest at the end of a three-year period, International Personal Finance plc Pension Scheme subject to the executive director not being dismissed for the Pension Scheme and the International Personal misconduct.
For David Broadbent, as part of his leaver Finance Stakeholder Pension Scheme the Stakeholder package, the entire 2015 bonus entitlement will be paid Scheme.
New employees are eligible to join the in cash.
There are also provisions for clawback, with Stakeholder Scheme.
The rate of Company pension respect to both the cash and deferred elements of contribution for any executive director is 20% of the bonus, to be applied for up to three years following base salary.
release in the event of a restatement of the Companys At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, Financial Statements or material misjudgement this may be paid as a cash allowance.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 81 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The Companys contributions in respect of Gerard Ryan balance section.
He ceased to be a member of the during 2015 amounted to 89,000, all of which was paid cash balance section on 31 July 2008 and became a as a cash allowance.
deferred member of the Pension Scheme.
The Companys contributions in respect of David Broadbent during 2015 The Companys contributions in respect of Adrian amounted to 63,000, of which 23,000 was paid into Gardner during 2015 amounted to 56,000, all of pension arrangements and 40,000 was paid as a cash which was paid as a cash allowance.
Details of David Broadbents entitlements David Broadbent was a member of the final salary under both sections of the Pension Scheme are section of the Pension Scheme until 1 April 2006 when as follows: he began to accrue benefits as a member of the cash Final salary Accrued pension at 31 December 2015 14,985 Accrued pension at 31 December 2014 14,807 Increase in accrued pension during the year net of inflation Directors contributions in 2015 Cash balance Accrued cash balance lump sum at 31 December 2015 106,828 Accrued cash balance lump sum at 31 December 2014 105,561 Increase in cash balance lump sum during the year net of inflation Directors contributions in 2015 David Broadbent was aged 47 at the end of the year.
He became a deferred member of the Pension Scheme on 1 August 2008.
Notes: 1 The cash balance entitlement has been calculated in line with our current understanding of David Broadbents accrued benefits.
2 The change in accrued pension and accrued cash balance lump sum, net of inflation, during the year reflects the fact that the relevant inflation benefit revaluation for the year uses CPI over the year to September 2014, which was 1.2%.
3 Normal retirement age is 65 for David Broadbent.
Early retirement can be taken from age 55 and the accrued final salary pension will then be reduced to take account of its early payment.
4 As David Broadbent did not accrue any benefits within the Pension Scheme during the year to 31 December 2015, the value of his Pension Scheme benefits under the disclosure requirements for large and medium-sized quoted companies is zero.
82 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Share options and likewise for PSP awards from 2014.
We have therefore restated the 2014 single figure to allow for comparison on Awards vesting during 2016 a like for like basis, and included details below of PSP DSP included in 2015 single figure awards vesting in 2015 and those that will vest in 2016.
In light of the introduction of EPS growth and growth The LTIP amount included in the 2015 single figure in revenue less impairment for long-term incentive relates to the DSP and PSP awards granted in 2013. awards made from 2013, the Committee aligned DSP The performance achieved against the performance performance tests with whole financial years rather than targets is shown below: over the 3 years from grant as was the case previously, DSP Performance condition Weighting Threshold Maximum Achieved Projected vesting 1 1 Absolute TSR growth 30% TSR over 3 years 60% TSR over 3 years 28% 0% 3 Cumulative 2 1 EPS growth 3 6% p. a.
100% Growth in revenue less 2 1 impairment 5% p. a.
2 Excludes impact of MCB acquisition.
PSP Performance condition Weighting Threshold Maximum Achieved Projected vesting 1 1 Absolute TSR growth 3 30% TSR over 3 years 60% TSR over 3 years 37% 0% Cumulative 2 1 EPS growth 6% p. a.
100% 3 Growth in revenue 2 1 less impairment 5% p. a.
Awards vesting during 2015 included in 2014 single figure The LTIP amount included in the 2014 single figure relates to the DSP and PSP nil-cost option awards granted in 2012.
Vesting was dependent on absolute TSR performance over three years from the date of grant.
In each case, the Committee was satisfied that the TSR growth was a fair reflection of performance.
50% of the vested award was released after the end of the performance period, with 50% deferred for an additional 12 months.
The performance achieved against the performance targets is shown below: Performance condition Threshold Maximum Achieved 1 2 3 Absolute TSR growth 30% TSR over 3 years 60% TSR over 3 years 145% 97% 125% 33% vests 100% vests 100% vested 1 PSP award granted on 2 March 2012.
2 PSP award granted on 8 August 2012.
3 DSP award granted on 27 March 2012.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Policy, Awards granted during 2015 executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial Awards were made in the financial year ending shareholding over time equivalent to a minimum of 200% 31 December 2015 under the LTIP PSP CSOP, DSP of salary.
50% of all share awards vesting under any of the and the SAYE Scheme.
Detail of these awards is Companys equity incentive schemes net of exercise provided overleaf.
costs, income tax and social security contributions must be retained until the requirement is met.
Executive directors current holdings against the guideline are disclosed on page 86.
Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 83 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 LTIP In line with policy, executive directors were granted LTIP awards, structured as PSP and CSOP options, in March 2015.
The resulting number of LTIP shares and associated performance conditions are set out below: Number of Number of End of 3 PSP nil-cost CSOP Face value Percentage of performance Threshold Performance 1 2 options options base salary period vesting Weighting conditions Gerard 144,508 625,000 125% 31 December 1 25% Absolute TSR 3 Ryan 2017 1 25% Cumulative EPS 3 growth 25% 1 Growth in revenue 3 less impairment 1 Adrian 92,196 398,750 125% 31 December 25% 3 Absolute TSR Gardner 2017 Cumulative EPS 1 25% growth 3 Growth in revenue 1 25% less impairment 3 David 94,122 929 411,099 125% 31 December 1 25% Absolute TSR 3 Broadbent 2017 1 25% Cumulative EPS 3 growth 25% 1 Growth in revenue 3 less impairment 1 The awards are nil-cost options to acquire shares for nil consideration.
2 The awards are options to acquire shares for their market value at the date of grant, being 432.2 pence per share.
3 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 2 March 2015, being 432.2 pence per share.
For information, for the CSOP options, the fair value was calculated to be 8,036 for 30,000 of options and 4,018 for 15,000 of options being 26.8% of the grant date face value at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model.
Performance conditions Awards granted during 2015 will vest as follows, with straight-line vesting between the points: Growth in Cumulative revenue less Absolute TSR EPS growth impairment Weighting 1 1 1 3 3 3 Vested at threshold 25% 25% 25% Threshold 30% over 3 years 6% p. a.
Stretch 100% vesting 60% over 3 years 15% p. a.
12% p. a. DSP In 2015, two-thirds of the annual bonus earned in The matching awards will vest only to the extent that respect of 2014 was deferred in shares and attracted the performance conditions are satisfied, being the performance-based matching shares on a one-for-one same three measures as set out in the LTIP section basis.
There are no further performance conditions above.
The following table sets out details of awards attached to the vesting of the deferred shares.
of nil-cost options made during the year under the DSP: Amount vesting Threshold Maximum Face value performance performance End of performance Date of award % of face value % of face value period Gerard Ryan 2 March 2015 Deferred: 242,689 Matching: 242,689 25% 100% 31 December 2017 Adrian Gardner 2 March 2015 Deferred: 111,013 Matching:111,013 25% 100% 31 December 2017 David Broadbent 2 March 2015 Deferred: 161,414 Matching: 161,414 25% 100% 31 December 2017 The face value was calculated using the average share price for the three days before the day of grant of 432.5 pence.
84 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SAYE Recruitment of new non-executive directors As noted in the remuneration policy, UK-based executive As disclosed in last years report, Dan OConnor joined directors are entitled to participate in the Companys the Board as a non-executive director and Chairmanapproved all-employee plan.
No options were granted elect on 2 January 2015.
His initial fee of 55,000 p. a. to any of the executive directors during the course of increased to 200,000 p. a. from 30 April 2015, when the year.
he assumed the Chairman role.
Jayne Almond joined the Board as a non-executive director on 23 June 2015 Loss of office payments audited information and John Mangelaars on 22 July 2015.
Both joined on Edyta Kurek resigned from the Board in January 2015 a fee of 55,000 p. a. and Nicholas Page retired from the Board in December 2015.
Both received their usual non-executive directorship Percentage change in Chief Executive fee up to their respective leave date, but received no Officers remuneration payments thereafter.
Neither received any payment The table below shows how the percentage change in for loss of office.
the Chief Executive Officers salary, benefits and bonus between 2014 and 2015 compared with the percentage Payments to past directors audited information change in the average of each of those components No payments to any past directors were made of pay for a group of employees.
The Committee has during 2015. selected the UK senior management population plus the country boards around 98 people for this comparison, due to the structure of the remuneration package.
CEO All employees To 31 December 2015 Percentage change Percentage change 000 2015 vs 2014 2015 vs 2014 Salary 504 2.6% 2.2% Benefits 25 0.2 % 0.7 % Bonus 227 37.6 % 47.7 % Performance graph and table The graph below compares the TSR of the Company with the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index for the seven-year period ended 31 December 2015.
This index was chosen for comparison because the Company is still a member of this index and has been for almost all of the time since its shares were listed on 16 July 2007.
Total Shareholder Return vs FTSE 250 500 400 300 200 100 0 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 14 31 Dec 15 International Personal Finance FTSE 250 Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 85 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 The table below shows the corresponding Chief Executive Officer remuneration, as well as the annual variable element award rates and long-term vesting rates against maxima over the same period.
Annual bonus CEO single figure pay-out LTIP vesting of remuneration as % maximum as % of maximum 000 opportunity opportunity 2015 Gerard Ryan 1,197 45% 58.8% 2014 Gerard Ryan 2,172 74.2% 100% 2013 Gerard Ryan 1,037 100% 2012 Gerard Ryan 889 80% John Harnett 718 2011 John Harnett 943 67% 2010 John Harnett 952 80% Notes: 1 Gerard Ryan was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 April 2012.
John Harnett resigned on 31 March 2012.
2 The 2014 single figure has been restated to reflect the change in LTIP performance conditions as described on page 79.
Relative spend on pay The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend plus share buybacks: Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2015 2014 change 1 Overall expenditure on pay 154.3 167.5 8% 2 Dividend paid in the year 28.6 22.9 25% Share buyback 50.0 45.4 10% 1 The percentage increase at constant exchange rates is 1.5%.
2 The figure for dividend paid in the year has been restated on the basis of final dividend paid in respect of 2013 and interim dividend for 2014.
A consistent approach has been used for the 2015 figure.
third growth in revenue less impairment with threshold STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF vesting of 25% on each.
The performance ranges for PSP DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY and DSP matching awards have yet to be confirmed.
The Committee will ensure that these are set to be stretching IN THE FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR and achievable taking into account all relevant data The base salaries for the Chief Executive Officer and the points including the budget, analysts forecasts, historical Chief Financial Officer will remain unchanged for 2016 performance, and incentive performance ranges at at 505,000 and 319,000 respectively.
the Companys comparators, and the targets will be disclosed in next years report.
Pension and benefits are in line with benefits stated in the policy table.
As announced on 24 February 2016, David Broadbent resigned from the Board on 23 February 2016 and will There was no change in the maximum opportunity leave the Company on 7 March 2016 by reason of under our annual bonus plan.
Pursuant to a settlement agreement made measures remain 50% profit before tax and 50% on on 23 February 2016, he will receive: a sum of 412,809, personal objectives, unchanged from 2015.
Targets are which represents 12 months pay in lieu of notice salary not disclosed on a forward-looking basis because they and contractual benefits including 12 months car are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive, allowance, life assurance contributions, permanent in particular resulting from the fact that the majority of health insurance contributions and employer pension the Companys competitors are unlisted.
contributions paid monthly in instalments save for part It is expected that the LTIP awards granted to the Chief of the March 2016 employer pension contributions which Executive Officer during 2013 will partially vest in 2016. will be paid directly into Mr Broadbents personal pension There was no change in the normal and maximum PSP plan.
The payment in lieu of notice is subject to a pound opportunity for executive directors and awards of up to for pound offset after the first six months if alternative a maximum of 125% of base salary are expected to be employment excluding one non-executive directorship made in 2016.
DSP matching awards in respect of the is secured during that period: in addition, he will receive deferred element of the annual bonus are also 7,665 in respect of accrued but untaken holiday pay: expected to be made.
a statutory redundancy payment of 9,025: and an annual bonus payment for 2015 of 82,836, to be As in 2015, performance will be assessed against three paid fully in cash.
equally weighted, independently measured metrics: one-third absolute TSR: one-third EPS growth: and one- 86 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In accordance with the discretion reserved to it pursuant up to 3,000 plus VAT will be paid directly to Mr to the Directors Remuneration Policy, in light of his long Broadbents solicitors for independent legal advice service and significant contribution, the Committee provided in connection with his settlement agreement exercised its discretion to permit Mr Broadbent to retain as is a legal requirement for such agreements to be share awards under the PSP, CSOP and DSP granted enforceable.
Outplacement assistance is also offered to him during 2013, 2014 and 2015, as referred to in as part of the collective redundancy exercise.
Other than the Executive directors interests in the Company share the amounts and benefits disclosed above, Mr Broadbent options table on page 88.
The awards will vest on their will not be eligible for any additional payments for loss respective normal vesting dates, subject to achievement of office.
of the relevant performance conditions.
The number of Other directorships awards which vest will be reduced on a time pro rata Adrian Gardner was a non-executive director of Amdocs basis based on the number of complete months from Limited during the 2015 financial year and was permitted the date of grant of each award to 7 March 2016. to retain the fee received from this position.
Mr Broadbent will receive accrued dividends on any shares that vest in accordance with the plan rules.
Directors shareholdings and share interests Mr Broadbent will remain in the Companys private audited information medical scheme for 12 months from his leave date and The interests of each person who was a director of will be entitled to his accrued pension and cash balance the Company as at 31 December 2015 together with under the International Personal Finance plc Pension interests held by his or her connected persons were: Scheme in accordance with the plan rules.
Additionally, Shares held Options held Vested but not Unvested and Unvested and yet exercisable Vested and subject to Unvested and subject to and subject to exercisable, Shareholding Owned performance subject to continued continued but not yet required Shareholding Requirement 1 outright conditions deferral only employment employment exercised % salary % salary fee met Executive 2 directors Gerard Ryan 541,294 532,959 168,883 7,777 141,296 200 406 Yes Adrian Gardner 15,000 197,682 25,667 6,902 200 37 No David Broadbent 207,989 352,346 116,619 6,902 52,729 200 283 Yes Non-executive 3 directors Jayne Almond 41,300 100 217 Yes Tony Hales 75,000 100 394 Yes John Mangelaars 100 0 No Richard Moat 15,000 100 79 No Cathryn Riley 14,795 100 78 No Dan OConnor 41,500 100 60 No 1 Based on a share price of 289 pence, being the closing price on 31 December 2015.
2 Executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding over time with 50% of all share awards vesting to be retained until the requirement is met.
3 Non-executive directors are expected to acquire a beneficial shareholding equivalent to 100% of their directors fee within three years of appointment.
There were no changes to these interests between 31 December 2015 and 24 February 2016.
No director has notified the Company of an interest in any other shares, transactions or arrangements which requires disclosure.
The current shareholding requirements for executive and non-executive directors are described on pages 74 to 75 and 76 respectively.
The aggregate gains of directors arising from the exercise of options granted under the PSP, CSOP and DSP in the year totalled 1,596,176.
Shareholder context The table below summarises voting outcomes at the 2014 and 2015 AGMs % of total votes cast.
AGM For Against Withheld 2014 Directors Remuneration Policy 97.1% 2.9% 0.2% 2015 Annual Report on Remuneration 98.9% 1.1% 5.0% Corporate Governance International Personal Finance plc 89 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration The following directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the directors remuneration for the year were being discussed and are considered to be independent: Tony Hales Chair until 31 December 2015 Jayne Almond from 24 September 2015 Richard Moat Nicholas Page until 17 December 2015 Cathryn Riley Chair from 1 January 2016 The Committee received assistance from Helen Thornton Group Director of Human Resources, Anna Fletcher Group Senior Reward Manager and Ben Murphy Company Secretary and other members of management, who may attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
Advisor to the Committee Kepler Associates Kepler was appointed by the Committee as its independent remuneration advisor in 2007, and its appointment was confirmed following a competitive selection process in 2010.
During the year, Kepler provided independent advice on remuneration matters including incentive design, current market practice, target setting and monitoring of total shareholder return.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of advice to the Committee in 2015 based on time and materials totalled 20,000 excl.
Kepler also provided advice to management in connection with TSR performance updates, CSOP valuations, and all-employee share plans.
The fees paid in this respect during 2015 were 10,000 excl.
Kepler is a signatory to, and abides by, the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
Further details can be found at www.
Keplers parent company, Mercer, provides unrelated work to the Company which is managed completely separately.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives is objective and independent and that Kepler does not have any connections with the Company that may impair its independence.
Approved by the Board on 24 February 2016.
