John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Link to performance Maximum opportunity Annual To recognise The Executive Directors The size of the bonus is assessed by the 100% of salary bonus and reward participate in the same overall Committee taking into account performance 60% of salary for the delivery bonus structure as other Group against a scorecard of corporate metrics.
of short-term employees except for those choice of metrics is reviewed by the Committee No more than 25% of strategic and employees within John Laing at the start of each financial year, with a target salary will be payable financial Capital Management JLCM.
range set for each measure.
Details of the for threshold objectives The size of the overall Group metrics used to determine the 2015 bonus are performance.
which bonus is determined based on set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration contribute performance against a range of on page 59 and the metrics to be used for the towards metrics linked to the Groups 2016 bonus are set out in the Annual Report on long-term strategy.
The overall bonus is Remuneration on page 62. sustainable then allocated partly based on There is no pre-determined weighting between growth.
Company performance with the metrics.
The Committee uses the scorecard as a remainder based on individual guide to help it consider the overall performance performance.
of the business and the appropriate size of the To the extent any bonus exceeds overall bonus.
The Committee will, in its the target amount 60% of absolute discretion, take into account all salary, the full amount of any relevant circumstances when determining the excess will be deferred in shares size of the overall Group bonus, recognising under the Deferred Share Bonus that, given the long-term nature of the business, Plan DSBP.
Awards under the timescales on particular projects may be outside DSBP vest in equal tranches on managements control.
The Committee also has the first, second and third the discretion to reduce the size of the overall anniversary of grant, normally Group bonus if it feels that the level of bonus is subject to continued not supported by the underlying financial and employment.
Dividends that operational performance of the business.
accrue on the DSBP shares Once performance against the corporate metrics during the vesting period may has been determined, the calculation of an be paid in cash and or shares individuals allocation will be subject to an at the time of vesting.
assessment by the Committee of both Group Clawback and, in the case of performance and individual performance.
deferred share awards, malus The amount allocated based on individual provisions will apply.
performance cannot exceed 40% of salary.
The Committee may reduce a participants bonus including to zero to reflect adverse events, e. g. health and safety breaches or poor personal performance.
Long To incentivise At the discretion of the Awards are subject to the achievement of Up to 200% of salary.
Term and reward Committee, Executive Directors performance targets linked to the long-term It is intended that Incentive the creation will receive annual awards of success of the Company.
awards for 2016 will be Plan of long-term shares in the form of nil or These are currently based 50% on growth in NAV limited to 175% and LTIP shareholder nominal cost options or per share and 50% on TSR.
However, different 150% of salary for the value.
conditional awards which will performance metrics weightings may be set for Chief Executive Officer usually vest on the third future awards to ensure that the LTIP remains and Group Finance anniversary of grant or, if later, aligned to the Companys strategy.
when the Committee determines A sliding scale of targets is applied for each that the performance conditions performance metric, with no more than 25% have been satisfied.
of that part of the award vesting for achievement The awards are subject to the of the threshold target.
achievement of performance and service conditions.
Executive Directors are required to retain the net of tax number of any shares vesting under an LTIP award for a further two years post-vesting.
Dividends that accrue on the shares during the vesting period may be paid in cash and or shares at the time of vesting.
Clawback and malus provisions apply.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 54 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Shareholding guidelines The Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 100% of their salary and are expected to retain all shares vesting under the DSBP and LTIP net of tax until such time as the guideline shareholding has been achieved.
Annual bonus performance metrics The size of the overall Group bonus is assessed by the Committee taking into account performance against a scorecard of metrics which reflect the growth of the business.
The choice of metrics may change for future award cycles, but was based on the following for 2015: Metric Link to strategy NAV This measures growth in the value of the Groups net assets.
Portfolio value This measures the book value of the Groups investment portfolio.
Distributions This reflects the Groups ability to realise cash distributions from its investments.
Disposals Disposals of existing investments provide additional funding for new investments.
Special dividends payable to shareholders are based on disposal proceeds.
New investments New investments that are designed to contribute to future NAV growth.
Profit Before Tax This is linked to growth in NAV in any given year and in addition provides an appropriate focus on cost control.
LTIP metrics Awards under the LTIP vest subject to delivering against measures which are aligned to long-term shareholder value creation.
The choice of measure may change for future award cycles, but is currently based on the following: Metric Link to strategy TSR This measures the total return to shareholders provided through share price appreciation and dividends.
TSR is measured relative to performance against a comparative group comprising the members of the FTSE 250 index.
TSR provides a clear alignment between the value created for shareholders and the reward earned by executives.
NAV per share This measures the overall value of the Groups net assets divided by the number of shares in issue and provides an assessment of the growth of the business over time.
Incentive plan operation The Committee will operate the Companys incentive plans according to their respective rules and consistent with normal market practice, the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant, including flexibility in a number of regards.
This includes dealing with leavers and making adjustments to awards following acquisitions, disposals, changes in share capital and other merger and acquisition activity.
The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures for the annual bonus plan and outstanding LTIP awards if events occur which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Clawback and malus The Company has the right to reduce the number of shares over which an award was granted under the DSBP or LTIP where it is discovered that the award was granted over too many shares as a result of a material misstatement in the Companys accounts, when there has been an error or reliance on misleading information when assessing the size of the award that was granted: and or it is discovered that the participant could reasonably have been dismissed as a result of his her misconduct.
The Company may also clawback cash bonus awards or previously vested DSBP and LTIP awards in accordance with the principles set out above to ensure that the full value of any overpayment is recouped.
In these circumstances the Committee may apply clawback within three years of the payment of the cash bonus, date of grant of a DSBP award or the vesting of an LTIP award.
Shareholder views The Remuneration Committee values the views of the Companys shareholders and guidance from shareholder representative bodies.
Shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM, as well as any additional feedback received during the year, will be considered as part of the Companys annual remuneration review.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders in advance of making any significant changes to remuneration arrangements.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Link to the remuneration policy for all employees The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is similar to the policy for employees across the Group, although the Committee does not formally consult with employees in respect of the design of the Directors remuneration policy.
A consistent approach to remuneration is applied across the Group with the same overarching principle that reward should be sufficient to attract and retain high calibre talent and that reward should support the delivery of the business strategy.
The same approach to salary reviews is applied to all employees and the Executive Directors participate in the same overall bonus structure as other Group employees except those employees within JLCM.
However only the most senior employees are subject to deferral arrangements and some other employees may have a higher weighting on individual performance.
The Executive Directors also participate in the same LTIP as other senior executives.
However, there are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors compared to other senior employees, which the Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility.
The two main differences are the increased emphasis on performance-related pay for Executive Directors through a higher variable pay opportunity and a greater focus on long-term alignment through bonus deferral, additional holding periods for LTIP awards and minimum shareholding guidelines.
Remuneration reward scenarios The total remuneration for each of the Executive Directors that could result from the remuneration policy in 2016 is shown below: 100% 497 Minimum Target 44% 23% 33% 1,131 Maximum 30% 26% 44% 1,679 Minimum 100% 395 Target 47% 24% 29% 845 Maximum 32% 27% 41% 1,228 0 250 500 750 1,000 1,250 1,500 1,750 000 Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Long-term Incentive LTIP Notes: 1.
Fixed pay consists of salary, benefits and pension.
Salary to be paid in 2016 and benefits are based on the value shown in the single total figure of remuneration for 2015 on page 58.
Pension is shown as 15% of salary.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 100% of salary with 60% of salary earned at target performance.
Any bonus earned for above target performance is deferred in shares, which vest subject to continued employment over one, two and three years.
The maximum LTIP award for 2016 is 175% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
An award of 50% of the maximum is assumed for target performance.
LTIP awards are subject to a three year performance period and the net of tax number of any shares received must be held for a further two years post vesting.
No assumptions are made as to future share price movements which will impact on the actual values to be received under the DSBP and LTIP.
Patrick OD Bourke Olivier Brousse Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 56 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Executive Director Recruitment and Promotions Remuneration arrangements for a new appointment will be set in accordance with the policy for the existing Executive Directors, except as noted below: If it is considered appropriate to set the salary for a new Executive Director at a level which is below market, his or her salary may be increased in future periods to achieve the desired market positioning by way of a series of phased above inflation increases, subject to his or her continued development in the role.
Any bonus payment for the year of joining will normally be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the period worked and the Committee may set different performance measures and targets, depending on the timing and nature of the appointment.
In the case of an Executive Director being recruited overseas, being recruited by the Company to relocate overseas or an existing Executive Director being asked to relocate overseas, expatriate benefits may be provided on an ongoing basis.
The Committee may also approve the payment of one-off relocation-related expenses and legal fees.
The Committee may offer cash and or share-based elements to compensate an individual for remuneration forfeited on leaving a former employer, if it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and therefore its shareholders.
Such payments would take account of remuneration relinquished and would mirror as far as possible the delivery mechanism, time horizons and performance requirement attached to that remuneration.
Where possible any such payments would be facilitated through the Companys existing share plans, but, if not, the awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role will be allowed to pay out according to its original terms or adjusted as considered appropriate to reflect the new role.
Executive Directors service agreements and payments for loss of office The Executive Directors entered into new service agreements with the Company on 16 January 2015.
There is no fixed term and the contracts continue until terminated by either party giving 12 months notice.
The Company is also entitled to terminate the Executive Directors employment by payment of a cash sum in lieu of notice equal to salary and the cost to the Company of providing contractual benefits including pension but excluding bonus during what would otherwise have been the notice period.
A payment in lieu of notice can, at the Companys discretion, be paid as a lump sum or in equal monthly instalments over the notice period.
There is a mechanism in the agreement to reduce the instalments where the Executive Director commences alternative employment during the notice period.
Outplacement services and reimbursement of legal costs may also be provided.
The Company may also terminate the Executive Directors employment with immediate effect and with no liability to make any further payments in certain prescribed circumstances e. g. in the case of a serious or repeated breach of the Executive Directors obligations.
The Committee may pay any statutory entitlements or settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination of employment, where considered in the best interest of the Company.
The table below sets out the general position in respect of incentive arrangements for departing Executive Directors.
In accordance with the terms of the relevant incentive plan rules, and based on the circumstances of any departure, the Committee has discretion to determine how an Executive Director should be categorised for each element and determine the relevant vesting levels: Bad Leaver Good Leaver Annual Bonus No entitlement.
Bonus may be payable subject to performance.
Awards normally pro-rated based on the period worked during the financial year.
DSBP Unvested awards will lapse.
Unvested awards will vest on the date of cessation with no pro-rata reduction.
LTIP Unvested awards will lapse.
Awards will vest on the normal vesting date, subject to performance and a time prorata reduction based on the number of complete months served from the date of grant to cessation of employment.
The Committee may, in its absolute discretion, determine that awards can vest, subject to performance, earlier than the normal vesting date and, if a participant dies, the award will ordinarily vest, subject to performance, on the date of death unless the Committee decides it should vest on the normal vesting date.
In any of the circumstances described above, the Committee may determine that the pro-rata reduction should not apply at all or should apply to a lesser extent if it considers that exceptional circumstances justify such treatment.
1. e. g. termination for cause etc.
2. e. g. death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of the participants employer, the sale of the participants employer or the business in which he is employed out of the Group or any other reason at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Other In the event of a change of control or voluntary winding-up, unvested LTIP awards will vest at the time of the relevant event subject to performance and a time-based pro-rata reduction although the Committee may determine that the pro-rata reduction should not apply at all or should apply to a lesser extent if it considers that exceptional circumstances justify such a treatment.
Unvested DSBP awards will vest early and in full.
The Committee may require LTIP and DSBP awards to be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in a new holding company if the change of control is part of an internal reorganisation.
In the event that a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed which, in the opinion of the Committee, would affect the price of a share to a material extent, the Committee may decide that unvested LTIP and DSBP wards will vest on the same basis as described above.
External Board Appointments The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors in other companies and that these appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company.
It is the Companys policy that Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
Olivier Brousse is a non-executive director of 1001 Fontaines and of Brive Rugby Club.
He does not receive any fees for these appointments.
Patrick OD Bourke is a non-executive director of Affinity Water Limited and received fees of 47,000 in 2015.
Remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors Operation Fee policy The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
The other non-executive directors receive a basic Board fee, with supplementary fees payable for additional Board responsibilities e. g. for Chairmanship of the Audit or Remuneration Committee or the role of Senior Independent Director.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements.
The maximum aggregate fee is set at 750,000 in the Companys Articles of Association.
Current fee levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 58.
Fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, and may be increased taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity and other broadly comparable companies.
Expenses The Chairman and the non-executive directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses and any tax payable thereon.
Letters of The letter of appointment for the Chairman states that his appointment is expected to last for at least three years but appointment will be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The appointment is terminable by either party giving to the other six and policy on months written notice or at any time in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company without prejudice termination to the Chairmans right to receive six months payment in lieu of notice unless the removal is as a result of a serious default on his part.
The appointments of the other non-executive directors are for initial terms of three years.
The non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by the Companys shareholders.
Their appointments may be terminated at any time upon written notice or in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company or upon their resignation.
The non-executive directors are not entitled to receive any compensation on termination of their appointment.
Director Date of letter of appointment Unexpired term at 31 December 2015 Dr Phil Nolan 16 January 2015 25 months Jeremy Beeton 18 December 2014 25 months Toby Hiscock 16 January 2015 25 months David Rough 17 December 2014 25 months Anne Wade 17 December 2014 25 months The agreements were conditional on and did not become effective until the Companys admission to the Official List on 17 February 2015.
Recruitment For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance policy with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at that time.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 58 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Schedule 8 set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Remuneration Committee members Anne Wade Chairman Jeremy Beeton Toby Hiscock David Rough The Committee took effect from Admission.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Further details on the members of the Committee can be found on pages 40 and 41 of this Annual Report.
Responsibilities The Committee recommends the Groups policy on executive remuneration, determines the levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Chairman and other senior executives and prepares an Annual Report on Remuneration for approval by shareholders at the AGM.
The Committees terms of reference can be viewed on our website at www.
Details of the number of meetings held during the year are shown in the Corporate Governance Report on page 45.
Advisors The Committee receives information and takes advice from inside and outside the Group.
Internal support is provided by the Group HR Director and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are invited to attend meetings where appropriate.
No individual is present when matters relating to his her own remuneration are discussed.
New Bridge Street NBS was appointed in early 2015 to act as the independent adviser to the Committee.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, which is a subsidiary of Aon plc.
Fees are normally charged on a time spent basis, with estimates provided in advance for particular projects.
The total fees paid to NBS in respect of its services to the Committee during the year were 34,532 plus VAT.
NBS also provided advice to the Company during the year in relation to the implementation of the various executive incentive plans.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives from NBS is objective and independent.
Directors single total figure of remuneration for 2015 audited The table below provides a breakdown of the various elements of Director pay for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This comprises the total remuneration earned in respect of the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, including remuneration received prior to Admission.
As John Laing Group plc was listed during 2015, there is no disclosure in this report of prior year information.
In the 2016 report, prior year information will be disclosed.
This relates to private health insurance.
The figure for Patrick OD Bourke also includes a car allowance of 10,200.
Paid as a cash supplement in lieu of pension.
This relates to the bonus awarded for the year ended 31 December 2015.
In accordance with the DSBP any amount over 60% of salary awarded in bonus is deferred in shares.
The first award under the new LTIP will vest in April 2018 subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2017.
This relates to the vesting of the pre-IPO incentive plans.
Appointed to the Board of John Laing Group plc on Admission.
Priscilla Davies and Guy Pigache resigned from the Board on 1 October 2015.
Neither received any remuneration for their services to the Company.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Details of variable pay earned in the year audited Annual Bonus The bonus payable for 2015 excluding JLCM employees was assessed by the Committee taking into account performance against the following scorecard of metrics: m Threshold Target Stretch Actual Narrative NAV 861 884 947 890 Target Portfolio value 740 779 857 841 Between Target and Stretch Distributions excluding from non-portfolio assets 24 25 28 39 Above Stretch Disposals 98 103 113 86 Below Threshold: for explanation see page 11 New investments 165 174 191 181 Between Target and Stretch Profit before tax 92 96 106 107 Above Stretch In addition to the overall Company targets, the Executive Directors were given specific individual objectives.
For both the Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director these included the Companys successful transition to a listed company including development of good relationships with a diverse shareholder base enabling the smooth transition from Henderson ownership.
For the Group Finance Director there were additional objectives around developing the strategy for public financial communication and development of good relationships with shareholders and equity analysts.
For the Chief Executive Officer, in addition to oversight of all Group objectives, he was individually tasked with the development of a more performance-related compensation structure for the Company: and oversight of the Companys future investment strategy.
For the Executive Directors, the allocation between corporate and individual objectives was as follows: Olivier Patrick Brousse OD Bourke Corporate 42% 42% Based on the achievement of the above scorecard of metrics, the maximum 60% of salary Committee determined that the overall bonus payable for corporate performance was 70% of the maximum i. e. equivalent to 42% of salary for the Executive Directors.
Individual 28% 28% Taking into account achievement against their specific individual maximum 40% of salary objectives and the overall performance of the Group since IPO, the Committee awarded individual bonuses of 28% of salary to both Executive Directors out of a maximum of 40% for this element of the bonus.
Total % of maximum 70% 70% Total 000 300 233 Bonuses up to 60% of salary are paid in cash with any bonus above this level awarded in the form of deferred shares, vesting in equal tranches over one, two and three years, normally subject to continued employment.
The deferred shares will be awarded as soon as practicable following the announcement of results in March 2016.
Pre-IPO incentive plans Both Olivier Brousse and Patrick OD Bourke participated in existing long-term pre-IPO incentive arrangements as set out in the Prospectus.
Under the terms of the exit-related incentive plan, Olivier Brousse and Patrick OD Bourke were entitled to receive cash payments of 750,000 and 500,000 respectively.
50% was payable on Admission, with the remainder payable on the first anniversary subject to continued employment only.
These have both now been paid and are included in the single figure table for 2015.
Patrick OD Bourke was also entitled to receive outstanding deferred amounts under prior long-term incentive plan arrangements that were discontinued on Admission relating to awards made in 2011, 2012 and 2013.
50% was payable on Admission, with the remainder payable on the first anniversary subject to continued employment.
The total amount payable was 545,000, of which 300,000 was performance related and has been included in the single figure table for 2015.
Olivier Brousse and Patrick OD Bourke each subscribed for shares worth 100,000 on Admission and agreed, to the extent that they had not yet reached their individual shareholding guideline, to invest 50% of the net payment that vested on the first anniversary of Admission in further shares.
Details of the Directors current shareholdings and achievement against their guideline limits are set out on page 61.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 60 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Details of long-term incentive awards granted in the year audited The following awards were granted to the Executive Directors during the financial year: Type of Award Face Number Grant Performance Performance award size value of shares date period targets Olivier Brousse LTIP nil 175% 752,500 342,820 16 April 2015 to cost option salary 15 April 2018 for TSR 50% based on relative TSR and 16 April 2015 50% based on NAV per share.
Patrick LTIP nil 150% 499,500 227,560 1 January 2015 to OD Bourke cost option salary 31 December 2017 for NAV 1.
Calculated using the middle market share price on the day preceding the date of grant which was 219.5 pence.
The performance conditions attached to the awards are: 50% is based on TSR performance against a comparator group comprising the members of the FTSE 250 index.
25% of the shares in this tranche will vest for median performance with full vesting for upper quartile performance or above straight line vesting between these points.
50% is based on the annual compound growth in the Companys NAV per share.
NAV will be based on the figures reported in the Companys annual financial statements but adjusted to include the value of any dividends paid to or approved by shareholders during the three year performance period.
The NAV figures may also be adjusted at the discretion of the Committee to reflect any regulatory or accounting changes or any changes to the Companys share capital.
25% of the shares in this tranche will vest for 12% p. a. growth, with full vesting for 18% p. a. growth or above straight line vesting between these points.
The base year for the measurement of the growth in the value of NAV is the 2014 financial year for which the NAV value was 210p per share which includes the funds raised in the Companys IPO in February 2015.
The awards were structured as nil cost options and will normally vest on the later of the third anniversary of grant and the determination of the performance conditions, and will then normally remain exercisable until the day before the tenth anniversary of the date of grant provided the individual remains an employee or officer of the Group.
The Executive Directors may not sell shares vesting under the LTIP other than for tax within two years of vesting.
Chairman and non-executive director fees The current fee policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors is set out below: Fee Chairman 180,000 Non-executive directors: Base fee 45,000 Additional fees for: Chairing the Audit Committee 15,000 Chairing the Remuneration Committee 10,000 Senior Independent Director 10,000 In addition, the Chairman and the non-executive directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Directors shareholdings audited The following table sets out a summary of the Directors interests in shares including any interests held by connected persons.
of shares Other interests in Total interest in owned immediately owned on shares outstanding shares as at following Admission 31 December 2015 LTIP awards 31 December 2015 Olivier Brousse 51,282 96,282 342,820 439,102 Patrick OD Bourke 51,282 76,282 227,560 303,842 Dr Phil Nolan 10,256 110,256 110,256 David Rough 10,256 35,256 35,256 Jeremy Beeton 10,256 10,256 10,256 Toby Hiscock 10,256 10,256 10,256 Anne Wade 10,256 10,256 10,256 Priscilla Davies and Guy Pigache resigned from the Board on 1 October 2015.
Neither Director held shares in the Company.
Between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report Jeremy Beeton bought 4,000 shares increasing his interest in shares to 14,256.
Also during this period Anne Wade bought 10,000 shares increasing her interest in shares to 20,256.
The guideline shareholding for Executive Directors is 100% of salary.
At 31 December 2015, Olivier Brousse and Patrick OD Bourke held shares worth 47.0% and 48.1% of salary respectively.
They have agreed to invest 50% of the net of tax payment vesting on the first anniversary of Admission under the pre-IPO incentive plans in shares and are expected to retain all shares vesting under the DSBP and LTIP net of tax until such time as the guideline holding has been achieved.
Payments to past Directors audited There were no payments to past Directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office audited No payments have been made for loss of office in the year.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below shows the Groups spend on pay compared with distributions to shareholders.
m 2015 Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees 36.5 Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends 5.9 Distributions to shareholders by way of share buy-backs Nil Percentage change in the remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer compared to the average for other employees Prior to the IPO, employees, including the Chief Executive Officer, were employed by group companies other than John Laing Group plc.
It is therefore not possible to provide meaningful comparative data for 2015, for which the Company was only listed for part of the year.
However, full disclosure of the year-on-year movement will be provided in future remuneration reports.
Performance graph The graph below shows the Companys performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index for the period from Admission to 31 December 2015.
This comparator has been chosen as it is a broad equity index of which the Company is a constituent and it is also the one used in assessing relative TSR performance under the LTIP.
130 120 108.57 110 105.77 100 90 80 17 02 2015 31 12 2015 John Laing Group plc FTSE 250 Index The chart shows the value as at 31 December 2015 of 100 invested in John Laing Group plc on the date of Admission 17 February 2015 compared to 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index on the same day.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 62 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED The total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer for 2015 is shown in the table below.
The annual bonus and long-term incentive award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also disclosed.
2015 Total Remuneration 000 1,535 Annual bonus % of maximum 70% LTIP % of maximum n a Application of the Remuneration Policy for 2016 A summary of how the remuneration policy will be applied during the forthcoming year is set out below: Salaries for Executive Directors Olivier Brousse 430,000 no increase Patrick OD Bourke 333,000 no increase Salaries were reviewed in March 2016 and the Committee determined to maintain them at their current level.
Benefits and Pension No change 2016 Bonus There is no change to the structure of the bonus for 2016.
Bonuses will be awarded based on a mix of corporate and personal performance.
Corporate performance will be assessed taking into account NAV, distributions excluding from non-portfolio assets, disposals, new investments, value enhancements and profit before tax.
The performance targets for 2016 are deemed to be commercially sensitive and will be disclosed in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
2016 LTIP LTIP awards granted to the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director in 2016 will be over shares worth 175% and 150% of salary respectively the same as 2015.
Performance will be measured over three years subject to the following conditions with an equal weighting on each measure : Performance condition Threshold 25% vesting Maximum 100% vesting Growth in NAV per share 12% p. a.
18% p. a. TSR relative to the constituents Median performance Upper Quartile performance of the FTSE 250 Index There will be straight-line vesting between these points.
Chairman and non-executive The Chairman and non-executive director fees have not been increased for 2016.
A summary of the director fees current fee policy is set out on page 57.
By order of the Board Anne Wade CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 7 March 2016 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that the Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2016 and is signed on its behalf by: Olivier Brousse Patrick OD Bourke CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR 7 March 2016 7 March 2016 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview 64 John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF JOHN LAING GROUP PLC In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2015 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 29 of the Group financial statements and notes 1 to 13 of the Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern basis of accounting contained within note 2d to the Group financial statements and the Directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group contained within the Strategic Report on page 31.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 32 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures on pages 32 to 36 that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in note 2d to the Group financial statements that they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the Directors explanation on page 31 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
INDEPENDENCE We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and we confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
John Laing Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Valuation of investments The Group holds a range of investments which primarily include We assessed the design and implementation of the PPP and renewable energy assets.
The total value of these assets controls in place when valuing the Groups investments.
at 31 December 2015 was 825.8 million 31 December 2014: We reviewed and challenged the cash flows incorporated in 706.7 million as disclosed in note 12 to the Group financial a sample of project financial models.
This excludes the listed equity shareholding in JLEN.
These underlying assets are held across a range of different sectors We obtained evidence, including external market data, comprising Transport, Environmental including Renewable to substantiate key assumptions including project discount Energy and Social Infrastructure, and a range of geographies rate s and macro-economic assumptions such as forecast including the UK, Europe, North America and Asia Pacific.
We also obtained evidence, such as contractual documentation, to substantiate the ability of The valuation of these investments is a significant judgement the Group to achieve value enhancements which include underpinned by a number of key assumptions and estimates.
improvements in project revenues and reductions in These judgements include forecast cash flows including the project costs.
ability of the Group to achieve value enhancements, discount rates and macro-economic assumptions such as future inflation We benchmarked managements discount rates against rates and tax rates.
Many of these assumptions differ depending market transaction data, including the Groups disposals in on both the sector and geography of the project.
A full internal the current and previous period.
We performed this work in valuation is prepared at June and December each year and conjunction with our own valuation specialists.
this valuation is incorporated into the financial statements.
We met with the Groups external valuer to understand and An independent opinion is obtained from an external valuer that challenge the process undertaken by them in arriving at the portfolio as a whole represents fair value.
their opinion that the portfolio as a whole represents fair More information on the valuation and valuation methodology value.
We also assessed the competency and independence can be found on page 23 and notes 1 and 12 to the Group financial of the external valuer.
We checked that the disclosures in the financial statements were appropriate.
Valuation of the defined benefit pension schemes The Group has two defined benefit pension schemes The John We assessed the design and implementation of the controls Laing Pension Fund and the John Laing Pension Plan which in place when valuing the Groups defined benefit pension had a combined deficit of 38.9 million at 31 December 2015 schemes including the setting of actuarial assumptions.
During the year the Group In conjunction with our internal actuarial specialists, made a special contribution to the John Laing Pension Fund of we compared the Groups key assumptions including the 100 million, comprising both cash and investments, and a regular discount rate, mortality rate assumptions and the inflation contribution of 27 million.
rates against our own benchmarks and those adopted by The valuation of the deficit is subject to a number of judgements other companies in the market.
including i discount rates ii inflation rates and iii mortality We audited the scheme assets via agreement to external assumptions.
confirmations from the custodian and also agreed a sample There is also a judgement concerning the Groups ability to of scheme assets back to independent market data.
We also recover a surplus under the scheme rules and consequently obtained and reviewed the AAF 01 06 ISAE 3402 assurance the consideration of minimum funding requirements under report on internal controls for each custodian to assess if IFRIC14 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum there were any matters which impact our work.
In assessing the impact of IFRIC14, we examined the See note 19 for further information.
nature of the Groups funding commitments to the schemes and reviewed the scheme rules, the external legal advice obtained by management and the actuarial schedule of contributions.
We checked that the disclosure requirements of IAS19R Employee Benefits had been fulfilled.
The list of risks included above is consistent with our report issued last year.
The description of risks above should be read in conjunction with the significant issues considered by the Audit Committee and discussed on pages 47 to 48.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Overview
