Governance Directors remuneration report employee reward, the Committee seeks to balance the STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE importance of dealing with legacy conduct-related matters, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE investment for our customers, returning value to shareholders and providing support to the communities in which we operate.
The Committee has placed a great deal of emphasis on ensuring that reward outcomes are aligned to the long term sustainable success of the business, the Groups commitment to rebuilding trust and changing our culture to ensure that colleagues are empowered, inspired and incentivised to do the right thing for customers, particularly when it comes to dealing with, and learning from, mistakes of the past.
Remuneration outcomes for 2015 As set out in detail in the annual report on remuneration, both the financial and strategic measures set by the Committee for the 2015 bonus were exceeded, with underlying profit of 8,112million and dividends in respect of 2015 of 1.6 billion and a total capital distribution of 2.0 billion, demonstrating the Groups return to financial health.
In addition, the Group In the context of improving financial has completed the sale of the remaining holding in TSB at a premium of around 200 million, whilst the strong financial performance and a return to performance has enabled the Government to make further dividend payments, the Committee substantial progress in returning the Group to full private ownership and has resulted in rating agency upgrades and continues to ensure clear alignment improved feedback from the regulators.
between remuneration and delivery The Group has continued to embed the revised methodology for calculating the risk-adjusted bonus outcome implemented of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Committee believes it is important that all colleagues are rewarded in a way that recognises the very Dear Shareholders highest of expectations in respect of conduct and customer treatment and the links between performance, risk Introduction management and reward are clear in the way that the Group On behalf of the Board and as Chair of the Groups sets expectations and communicates them with colleagues.
Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the When there are failures in risk management, or when material Directors remuneration report for the year ended errors occur, it is equally important that accountability is taken 31December 2015.
I am extremely grateful for the overall collectively for those issues and, where appropriate, at an strong support and positive feedback received from individual level as well.
During 2015, a number of risk and shareholders during 2015.
I look forward to working conduct-related matters had an impact on both the Groups together during 2016. financial performance and its reputation with the public, shareholders and regulatory bodies, such as PPI, as well as the This report is split into three parts: risk management failure which led to regulatory settlement on Remuneration at a glance - a summary of the key aspects PPI complaint handling.
Taking into consideration all relevant factors, the Committee Directors remuneration policy has applied collective adjustments of 26 percent to the Annual report on remuneration - how the policy was Groups 2015 bonus outcome, reducing the total to implemented in 2015 and is intended to apply in 2016.
As a percentage of pre-bonus underlying A summary of the remuneration policy approved at the 2014 profit, the bonus outcome is 4.2 per cent for 2015, down from Annual General Meeting AGM is included for information 4.5percent in 2014. only.
No changes have been made to the policy this year.
My The approach to determine bonus awards for the Executive introductory statement and the annual report on remuneration Directors is consistent with other colleagues across the Group.
will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
The Committee determined that bonus awards of between I took over as Chair of the Remuneration Committee from 57per cent and 63 per cent of maximum opportunity should TonyWatson in October 2015.
On behalf of the Group, I would be made to Executive Directors.
In addition, we applied like to take the opportunity to thank Tony for the significant reductions to the 2012 and 2013 deferred bonus awards for contribution he has made in his chairmanship of the each of the Executive Directors, in line with other senior Committee since 2011, a period that has seen profound managers, to reflect the Groups handling of PPI complaints.
change both for the Group and the wider UK economy.
The long-term incentive plan LTIP awards made in 2013 are proposed to vest at 94.18 per cent, reflecting performance in Alignment to strategy the period to 31 December 2015.
This vesting outcome reflects The Committee continues to place great importance on the significant shareholder value created over the period.
ensuring there is a clear link between remuneration and Awards were granted at 49.29 pence.
delivery of the Groups key strategic objectives.
For 2015, Overall, the total remuneration for the Executive Directors is the Groups priorities have been creating the best customer down by around 20 per cent compared to 2014.
Further details experience, becoming simpler and more efficient and on the reward outcomes for Executive Directors are outlined in delivering sustainable growth.
These support our continued the annual report on remuneration.
aim of becoming the best bank for customers and our helping Britain prosper plan.
Underpinning the Groups strategic focus is the building the best team agenda, a key component of which is the Groups desire to offer fair reward to all colleagues.
In considering 82 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Rewarding colleagues Impact of regulatory change During 2015, the Group has continued to invest in the broader 2015 has been another year in which significant regulatory remuneration package for colleagues, with improvements change has dominated the remuneration agenda.
This has made to pay, benefits and colleague share plans.
It also included the publication of revised PRA and FCA rules on undertook a detailed review of the variable pay arrangements remuneration under CRD IV and a significant consultation on used to incentivise customer-facing colleagues, primarily in changes to the EBA Guidelines that overlay the UK rulebook.
These arrangements do not contain sales In addition, during 2015, the remuneration requirements of the output measures, so colleagues are incentivised purely by AIFMD Remuneration Code took effect.
Alongside the specific reference to customer service or Balanced Scorecard remuneration rules, the Committee has also considered the performance measures.
In some parts of our business, variable impact of the introduction of the Senior Manager and pay arrangements have been removed and have either been Certification Regimes from March 2016 and other significant replaced with fixed base salary or eligible colleagues have regulatory changes.
transitioned to the discretionary annual bonus plan.
From In particular, from 2016, there will be a regulatory requirement 2016, a single variable pay arrangement will be introduced to extend deferral from three years to seven years.
At least for all customer-facing colleagues in the Retail division, using 60per cent of total variable pay must be deferred.
Currently a Balanced Scorecard approach with clearly identified the Group defers all bonuses awarded to the Executive performance descriptors, measuring whole job contribution.
Directors entirely in shares, an approach which is significantly Average discretionary bonus awards across all colleagues are more conservative than the market practice and current approximately 4,600, with only 3 per cent of our colleagues regulations require.
In order to implement longer deferral of receiving a bonus in excess of 25,000.
In line with previous variable remuneration, the Group will make modest changes years, the first 2,000 of any bonus award is paid in cash with to the delivery of variable remuneration for the 2016 the balance being deferred in shares which are released performance period.
In addition to these changes for the 2016 periodically over subsequent months and years.
performance period, the Committee is conducting a full review of the Groups approach to variable remuneration and Executive salary awards for 2016 is considering making changes to deliver a simpler and more The Committees continuing aim is to position Executive efficient structure.
Any changes would apply from the 2017 performance period and it is intended that the Group will Director remuneration conservatively, but competitively, against the market.
We are also very mindful of the average consult on these changes during 2016. awards made to colleagues across the Group, which in 2016 will be 2 per cent.
The Group is therefore proposing to Consideration of stakeholder views increase the base salaries of the Executive Directors.
For the The Group is committed to consulting key stakeholders to Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk Officer, it is proposed ensure their view is taken into consideration when determining that base salaries will increase by 2 per cent, in line with remuneration.
During 2015, the Group has consulted with colleagues across the Group.
major shareholders to gather their feedback and views on the For the first time since 2011, a base salary increase is also Groups approach to remuneration, in particular the proposed proposed for the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief changes to base salary for Executive Directors and the Groups Executive was hired on the basis that upon the Government forward-looking approach to variable remuneration in 2016. shareholding falling in the range of 15-20 per cent or less, the The Group has also met regularly with its main regulators, the Committee would consider his remuneration being increased PRA and FCA.
The Group is grateful for the support and in line with market conditions.
With the Governments ongoing dialogue with key stakeholders.
shareholding now being around 9 per cent and given the The Committee reviews an annual report from the Group recovery of the Groups financial strength, the Committee has HRDirector on the operation of the Groups remuneration decided it should now begin to adjust the Group Chief policy and its effectiveness.
In 2015, the report concluded that Executives salary towards the Reference Salary.
After effective systems and controls are in place for all requirements discussion with shareholders, the Committee has decided to of the Policy and that it continues to deliver outcomes in line stage this adjustment over two years.
For 2016, this will consist with the Groups values, reward principles and the of an increase in base salary of 2 per cent, in line with the other requirements of the PRA and FCA remuneration rules and Executive Directors, and an additional increase of 4 per cent to guidance issued by the European Banking Authority.
reflect the arrangements above, taking his total salary to The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that 1,125,000.
The Group Chief Executive has suggested, and remuneration policy and practices align to the Groups the Board has approved, that for 2016 the 4 per cent increase strategy and the continued focus on delivering superior and be delivered in shares and held until the Government has sustainable shareholder returns.
I hope you will support the sold its shareholding in the Group.
After this increase, resolutions relating to remuneration at the 2016 AGM.
the Group Chief Executives salary remains conservative compared to peers.
Anita Frew Chairman, Remuneration Committee 83 Governance Directors remuneration report continued REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE How Lloyds Banking Group performed Key performance measures The Group has had a successful 2015 with a number of strategic The table below illustrates outcomes against the Groups key milestones achieved, notably improved dividend returns, increase performance measures relevant to remuneration.
The annual bonus in underlying profit and completion of the sale of TSB at a premium outcome is driven by a combination of Group underlying profit to market value.
The LTIP measures Group performance over a three year period, using a range of financial The Groups approach to reward is to provide a clear link between and strategic measures.
remuneration and delivery of the Groups strategy and the aim of becoming the best bank for customers.
The Group believes in offering fair reward.
It is embedding a performance-driven and meritocratic culture where colleagues are rewarded for behaviours aligned to the long-term sustainable success of the business, the commitment to rebuilding trust and changing the culture of the Group.
Measure 2015 2014 1 Underlying profit before tax 8,112m 7,756m Group Balanced Scorecard Strong Strong Economic profit 2,233m 2,094m Total Shareholder Return TSR Per annum for the three years ended 31 December 16.6% 30.2% Cost:income ratio 49.3% 49.8% Net promoter score 59.3% 59.2% Digital active customer base 11.5m 10.4m Colleague engagement score 71% 60% 1 The underlying profit result used for remuneration purposes is 7,994 million excluding TSB.
Annual bonus plan outcome 23.5% of underlying profit Despite the better results in 2015, the decision has been taken 2015 94.18% 4.2% of to reduce the Groups total bonus outcome by approximately underlying profit 26percent.
Material adjustments have been made to the outcome in 2015 as in 2014 to reflect the impacts of legacy items.
6.6% of underlying profit 2014 94.18% Discretionary annual bonus awards of 353.7 million will be made 4.5% of underlying profit for 2015 4 per cent down from 369.5 million in 2014.
The total bonus awards as a percentage of pre-bonus underlying profit 0 400 800 1200 1600 2000 before tax declined from 4.5per cent in 2014 to 4.2 per cent in 2015.
This compares favourably to shareholder return from dividend Bonus amount post adjustment m Dividend m payments over the same period.
Dividend in respect of 2015 includes ordinary and special dividend 84 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Executive Director remuneration outcomes The charts below summarise the Executive Directors remuneration for the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015.
SINGLE TOTAL REMUNERATION FIGURE 000 VARIABLE REMUNERATION OUTCOME % of maximum 000 ANTNIO HORTA-OSRIO Group Chief Executive 2 57% Bonus 850 1 30% 10% 60% 2015 8,773 3 94.18% LTIP 5,155 23% 7% 64% 6% 2014 11,540 1 7,475 GEORGE CULMER Chief Financial Officer 2 63% Bonus 462 1 31% 10% 59% 2015 4,763 3 LTIP 94.18% 2,789 2014 25% 9% 61% 5% 5,804 1 2,254 JUAN COLOMBS Chief Risk Officer 2 Bonus 63% 455 1 33% 10% 57% 2015 4,461 3 94.18% LTIP 2,483 2014 28% 9% 63% 5,080 1,2 208 Fixed Annual bonus LTIP Other remuneration and buyouts 1 I n June 2015, the Group reached a settlement with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA with regard to aspects of its Payment Protection Insurance PPI complaint handling process during the period March 2012 to May 2013.
As a result, the Committee decided to make adjustments in respect of bonuses awarded in 2012 and 2013 to the Group Executive Committee and some other senior executives given their ultimate oversight of the PPI operations.
The number of shares adjusted was 409,039 for the GCE, 109,464 for the CFO and 376,055 for the CRO.
3 2 013 LTIP vesting and dividend equivalents awarded in shares were confirmed by the Remuneration Committee at its meeting on 16 February 2016.
The average share price between 1 October 2015 and 31 December 2015 73.72 pence has been used to calculate the value.
The shares were awarded in 2013 based on a share price of 49.29 pence.
Directors remuneration: policy implementation overview for 2016 The detailed policy implementation table containing all elements of remuneration can be found on page 103.
Salaries will be as follows, effective date shown below: Base salary Group Chief Executive GCE : 1,125,000 1 January 2016 Base salary reflects the role of the individual taking account of Chief Financial Officer CFO : 749,088 1 April 2016 responsibilities and experience, and pay in the Group as a whole.
Chief Risk Officer CRO : 738,684 1 January 2016 It helps to recruit and retain Executive Directors and forms the basis of a competitive remuneration package.
The levels of award set for 2016 remain unchanged and are as follows: Fixed share award GCE: 900,000 To ensure that total fixed remuneration is commensurate with CFO: 504,000 role and to provide a competitive reward package for Executive CRO: 497,000 Directors with an appropriate balance of fixed and variable Shares will be released in equal tranches over a five year period.
remuneration, in line with regulatory requirements.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 140 per cent of base salary for Annual bonus the GCE and 100 per cent of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Incentivise and reward the achievement of the Groups annual financial and strategic targets.
The maximum annual long-term incentive award for Executive Directors Long-term incentive plan is 300 per cent of salary.
Incentivise and reward the achievement of the Groups Awards in 2016, based on individual performance in 2015, are being made longer-term objectives, to align executive interests with those as follows: of shareholders and to retain key individuals.
GCE: 300 per cent of reference salary CFO: 275 per cent of base salary CRO: 275 per cent of base salary 85 Governance Directors remuneration report continued As outlined in the 2013 Directors remuneration report, the DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Groups policy is intended to ensure that the remuneration The policy set out in the 2013 Directors remuneration report proposition is both cost effective and enables the Group to was formally approved by shareholders at the AGM on attract and retain executives of the highest calibre.
objective is to align individual reward with the Groups It is intended that approval of the remuneration policy will be performance, the interests of its shareholders and a prudent sought at three year intervals, unless amendments to the approach to risk management.
In this way, the requirements of policy are required, in which case further shareholder approval the major stakeholders are balanced: customers, shareholders, will be sought.
No changes are proposed for 2016, therefore employees, and regulators.
shareholders will not be asked to vote on the remuneration The policy is based on principles which are applicable to all policy at the AGM this year.
employees within the Group and in particular the principle The remuneration policy tables for Executive and Nonthat the reward package should support the delivery of the Executive Directors are included below for ease of reference.
strategic aim of becoming the best bank for customers.
They have been reproduced as approved in 2014 with minor It embeds a performance-driven and meritocratic culture, changes due to regulatory requirements under the latest PRA encourages effective risk disciplines and is in line with relevant Rulebook which take effect in 2016 and changes in the regulations and codes of best practice.
There is no significant operation of the all-employee share plans in 2015.
Information difference between the policy for Executive Directors and that on how the Policy will be implemented in 2016 is included in for other senior employees.
If a significant difference for any the annual report on remuneration.
The full policy is set out individual were proposed, this would be subject to approval by on pages 102 to 109 of the annual report and accounts for the Remuneration Committee within regulatory requirements.
the year ended 31 December 2013 which is available at: www.
com globalassets documents investors 2013 2013 lbg annual report.
pdf Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Base salary reflects the role of the individual taking account of responsibilities and experience, and pay in the Group as a whole.
It helps to recruit and retain Executive Directors and forms the basis of a competitive remuneration package.
Operation Base salaries are typically reviewed annually with any increases normally taking effect from 1January.
When determining and reviewing base salary levels, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
Pay for comparable roles in comparable publicly listed financial services groups of a similar size.
The Committee also takes into account base salary increases for employees throughout the Group.
As disclosed in previous reports, since his appointment, the Group Chief Executive GCE has a reference salary of 1.22million which is used to calculate certain elements of long-term remuneration and the pension allowance.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
Increases will normally be in line with the increase awarded to the overall employee population.
However, a greater salary increase may be appropriate in certain circumstances, such as a new appointment made on a salary below a market competitive level, where phased increases are planned, or where there has been an increase in the responsibilities of an individual.
Performance measures N A Fixed share award Purpose and link to strategy To ensure that total fixed remuneration is commensurate with role and to provide a competitive reward package for Executive Directors with an appropriate balance of fixed and variable remuneration, in line with regulatory requirements.
Operation The fixed share award will be delivered in Lloyds Banking Group shares, released over five years with 20 per cent being released each year following the year of award.
Maximum potential The maximum award is 100 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A 86 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Pension Purpose and link to strategy The pension policy aims to support Executive Directors in building long-term retirement savings.
Operation Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Groups defined contribution scheme with company contributions set as a percentage of salary.
An individual may elect to receive some or all of their pension allowance as cash in lieu of pension contribution.
Maximum potential The maximum allowance for the GCE is 50 per cent of reference salary less any flexible benefit allowance.
The maximum allowance for other Executive Directors is 25 per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide suitable benefits as part of a competitive package.
Operation Benefits may include those currently provided and disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Core benefits include a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, life insurance and other benefits that may be selected through the Groups flexible benefits plan.
Additional benefits may be provided to individuals in certain circumstances such as relocation.
This may include benefits such as accommodation, relocation, and travel.
The Committee retains the right to provide additional benefits depending on individual circumstances.
When determining and reviewing the level of benefits provided, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
Benefits for comparable roles in comparable publicly listed financial services groups of a similar size.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase in the benefits currently provided which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
The Groups flexible benefits allowance is capped at 4per cent of base salary.
Performance measures N A All-employee plans Purpose and link to strategy Executive Directors are eligible to participate in HMRC approved all-employee schemes which encourage shareownership.
Operation Executive Directors may participate in these plans in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Maximum potential Participation levels may be increased up to HMRC limits as amended from time to time.
With effect from April 2014, the monthly savings limits for Save As You Earn SAYE is 500.
The maximum value of shares that may be purchased under the Share Incentive Plan SIP in any year is 1,800 with a two for one match.
Currently a three for two match is operated up to a maximum employee investment of 30 per month.
The maximum value of free shares that may be awarded in any year is 3,600.
Performance measures N A, following HMRC rules.
87 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Incentivise and reward the achievement of the Groups annual financial and strategic targets.
Operation Measures and targets are set annually and awards are determined by the Committee after the year end based on performance against the targets set.
The annual bonus may be delivered partly in cash and partly deferred into cash, shares, notes or other debt instruments including contingent convertible bonds.
The Committee may adjust deferred awards in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, special dividend or distribution or amend the terms of the plan in accordance with the plan rules.
At the time of the release, Executive Directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the interest that would have accrued on the deferred component, if deferral is made in notes or debt instruments, or dividends paid or payable if deferred in shares, between the date of grant and the vesting of the award on the number of shares which have vested.
The Committee applies its judgement to determine the payout level commensurate with business and or individual performance.
The Committee may reduce the level of deferred award including to zero, apply additional conditions to the vesting, or delay the vesting of deferred awards to a specified date or until conditions set by the Committee are satisfied, where it considers it appropriate as a result of an event occurring before vesting.
Bonus awards may be subject to clawback for a period of up to seven years after the date of award.
This period may be extended to ten years where there is an ongoing internal or regulatory investigation.
Maximum potential The maximum annual bonus opportunities are 140 per cent of base salary for the GCE and 100 per cent of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Performance measures Measures and targets are set annually by the Committee in line with the Groups strategic business plan and further details are set out in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
At least 50 per cent of the awards are weighted towards financial measures, with the balance on strategic objectives.
All assessments of performance are ultimately subject to the Committees judgement, but no award will be made if threshold performance is not met for financial measures or the individual is rated Developing performer or below.
The expected value of the bonus is 30percent of maximum opportunity.
The Committee retains the right to change the measures and weighting of those measures, including following feedback from regulators, shareholders and or other stakeholders.
TheCommittee is, however, committed to providing transparency in its decision making in respect of bonus awards and will disclose historic target and measure information together with information relating to how the Group has performed against those targets in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year unless this information is deemed to be commercially sensitive.
88 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Long-term incentive plan LTIP Purpose and link to strategy Incentivise and reward the achievement of the Groups longer-term objectives, to align executive interests with those of shareholders and to retain key individuals.
Operation Awards are made in the form of conditional shares or nil cost options.
Award levels are set at thetimeof grant, in compliance with regulatory requirements, and may be subject to a discount indetermining total variable remuneration under the rules set by the European Banking Authority.
Vesting will be subject to the achievement of performance conditions measured over a period of three years, or such longer period, as determined by the Committee.
On vesting, Executive Directors receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid during the vesting period on shares vesting.
The Committee retains full discretion to amend the payout levels should the award not reflect business and or individual performance.
The Committee may reduce including to zero the level of the award, apply additional conditions to the vesting, or delay the vesting of awards to a specified date or until conditions set by the Committee are satisfied, where it considers it appropriate as a result of an event occurring before vesting.
Executive Directors are required to hold the shares which vest for a further two years.
LTIP awards may be subject to clawback for a period of up to seven years after the date of award.
Maximum potential The maximum annual award for Executive Directors will normally be 300 per cent of salary excluding dividend equivalents this being the reference salary in the case of the GCE.
Under the plan rules, awards can be made up to 400 per cent of salary in exceptional circumstances excluding dividend equivalents.
Performance measures Measures and targets are set by the Committee annually and are set out in the annual report on remuneration each year.
At least 60 per cent of awards are weighted towards typical market e. g. Total Shareholder Return and or financial measures e. g. economic profit, with the balance on strategic measures.
25 per cent will vest for threshold performance and 50 per cent for on-target performance.
The measures are chosen to support the best bank for customers strategy and to align management and shareholder interests.
Targets are set by the Committee to be stretching within the context of the strategic business plan.
Measures are selected to balance profitability, achievement of strategic goals and to ensure the incentive does not encourage inappropriate risktaking.
Measures and targets are set annually by the Committee and limited details can therefore be provided in the remuneration policy.
For future awards, the Committee will disclose in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year historic measure and target information, together with how the Group has performed against those targets, unless this information is deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are required to build up a holding of a value of 200 per cent of base salary and fixed share award for the GCE and 150 per cent for other Executive Directors.
Details of holdings are shown in the annual report on remuneration.
Deferral of variable remuneration Operation The annual bonus and long-term incentive plans are both considered variable remuneration for the purpose of regulatory payment and deferral requirements.
The payment of variable remuneration and deferral levels are determined at the time of award and in compliance with regulatory requirements which currently require that at least 60 per cent of total variable remuneration is deferred and at least 50 per cent of total variable remuneration is paid in shares or other equity linked instruments.
From 2016, deferred awards normally vest over a period of seven years with vesting between the third and seventh anniversary of award, on a pro-rata basis.
89 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the remuneration policy that has been applied to Non-Executive Directors NEDs from the date of the AGM in 2014.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Purpose and link to strategy To provide an appropriate reward to attract and retain a high-calibre individual with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience.
Operation The Committee is responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board with regards to the Chairmans fees.
The Chairman does not participate in these discussions.
The GCE and the Chairman are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the fees of the NEDs.
When determining fee levels, the following are considered: The individuals skills and experience.
Comparable fees at FTSE companies of a similar size to Lloyds Banking Group, including the major UK banks.
The Chairman receives an all inclusive fee, which is reviewed periodically plus benefits including life insurance, car allowance, medical insurance and transportation.
NEDs are paid a basic fee plus additional fees for the chairmanship membership of committees and for membership of Group companies boards non-board level committees.
Additional fees are also paid to the senior independent director and to the deputy chairman to reflect additional responsibilities.
Any increases normally take effect from 1 January of a given year.
When determining and reviewing fee and benefit levels, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective sizing methodologies.
The Chairman and the NEDs are not entitled to receive any payment for loss of office other than in the case of the Chairmans fees for the six month notice period and are not entitled to participate in the Groups bonus, share plan or pension arrangements.
NEDs are reimbursed for expenses and any tax arising from these expenses.
Where appropriate, the Group will also meet the costs and any tax arising from travel for business purposes.
Maximum potential The Committee will make no increase in fees or benefits currently provided which it believes is inconsistent with the two parameters above.
Performance metrics N A Service agreements The service contracts of all current Executive Directors are terminable on 12 months notice from the Group and six months notice from the individual.
The Chairman also has a letter of appointment.
His engagement may be terminated on six months notice by either the Group or him.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Remuneration Committee Committee purpose and responsibilites The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration for all Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management and material risk takers.
The Committees purpose is to consider, agree and recommend to the Board an overall remuneration policy and philosophy for the Group that is aligned with its long-term business strategy, its business objectives, its risk appetite, values and the long-term interests of the Group that recognises the interests of relevant stakeholders.
The Committees Terms of Reference can be found on the Companys website at www.
com our-group corporate-governance 90 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Directors who served on the Committee during the year and their attendance at Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Remuneration 1 Committee meetings Eligible to attend Attended Committee Chairman Anthony Watson until 30 September 2015 and member thereafter 11 11 2 Anita Frew member to 30 September 2015 and Chairman thereafter 11 10 Committee members who served during 2015 Lord Blackwell 11 11 3 Alan Dickinson 2 2 Dyfrig John 11 11 Sara Weller 11 11 Former members who served during 2015 4 Carolyn Fairbairn 10 10 1 The number of meetings includes ad hoc meetings.
2 Ad hoc meeting arranged at short notice.
3 Appointed as member of the Committee on 17 July 2015.
Committee composition, skills and experience The Committee comprises Non-Executive Directors from a wide background to provide a balanced and independent view on remuneration matters.
From 1 October 2015, Anita Frew succeeded Anthony Watson as Chairman, with Anthony Watson remaining as a member of the Committee.
The change was made to bring about the separation of the roles of Senior Independent Director also held by Anthony Watson and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in line with best practice.
Carolyn Fairbairn retired as a Director of the Board and as a member of the Committee with effect from 31 October 2015.
Dyfrig John has notified the Board that he wishes to reduce his workload and therefore does not intend to seek re-election at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Stuart Sinclair was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director and as a member of the Committee on 4 January 2016.
How Committee meetings are run The management of the Committee is in keeping with the basis on which meetings of the Board are managed, as detailed on page 61, with a structure which facilitates open discussion and debate, with steps taken to ensure adequate time for members of the Committee to consider proposals which are put forward.
During 2015, the Committee met its key objectives and carried out its responsibilities effectively, as confirmed by the annual effectiveness review.
Building on improvements made in the previous year, the review identified a number of actions relating to agenda planning, the timeliness and content of Committee papers and induction of new Committee members that will continue to maintain and improve the Committees effectiveness.
Matters considered by the Committee The Committee met 11 times during 2015, including four ad hoc meetings called at short notice, to consider the following principal matters: Review of remuneration arrangements for senior executives: Determination of bonus outcome based on divisional and functional performance and adjustment for risk: Review of the use of new balanced scorecards for the determination of bonuses in divisions and functions: Performance conditions for the long-term incentive plan LTIP and the deferred bonus plan, including a review of clawback provisions: Bonus and salary awards for Executive Directors and key senior managers: Performance adjustments in respect of staff, and in particular in relation to staff accountable for PPI or LIBOR infractions: Feedback from the Committee Chairman on his her meetings respectively with the PRA and shareholders: Results of the Remuneration Committee effectiveness review and the suggestions for improvement: Approval of the 2014 and 2015 Directors remuneration report for publication within the annual report and Form 20-F: and Remuneration governance in the light of regulatory changes.
The Committee appoints independent consultants to provide advice on specific matters according to their particular expertise.
During the year, Deloitte LLP advised the Committee.
Deloitte was appointed as remuneration consultant by the Committee following a competitive tendering process.
Deloitte has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct.
The Committee has evaluated Deloittes performance during 2015.
The process of the review consisted of a detailed questionnaire completed by members of the Committee.
The results were discussed by the Committee and it was concluded that Deloitte were effective in providing objective and independent advice to the Committee.
In particular, it was recognised that Deloitte had sufficient knowledge and experience of all appropriate remuneration-related areas to provide adequate contributions to enable the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities.
Deloitte LLP is not connected with the Group.
Deloittes fees for services to the Committee in 2015 were on a time and materials basis and amounted to 426,700.
In addition, DeloitteLLP provided the Group with advice on taxation and other consulting services, and assurance services.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief Executive, Rupert McNeil Group HR Director until 16 October 2015, Paul Hucknall HR Director, Performance & Reward, Chris Evans Director, Performance and Variable Reward and Matthew Elderfield Group Director, Conduct, Compliance and Organisational Risk provided guidance to the Committee other than for their own remuneration.
Juan Colombs Chief Risk Officer and George Culmer Chief Financial Officer also attended the Committee to advise as and when necessary on risk and financial matters.
91 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The Committee is satisfied that its processes are robust and diligent and that the Groups remuneration and incentive plans conform to best practice standards.
Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting The Groups remuneration policy was detailed within the Directors remuneration report for 2013 and voted on at the 2014 AGM.
The remuneration offered to the Executive Directors in 2015 was disclosed in last years remuneration implementation report and was voted on at the 2015 AGM.
The shareholder votes submitted at the meetings, either directly, by mail or by proxy, were as follows: Votes Votes cast in favour Votes cast against withheld Number of Number of Number of shares Percentage of shares Percentage of shares millions votes cast millions votes cast millions Remuneration policy 2014 vote 48,261 97.97% 999 2.03% 1,391 Remuneration implementation report 2015 vote 51,131 97.67% 1,220 2.33% 410 Remuneration outcome for 2015 Executive directors audited The following table summarises the total remuneration delivered during 2015 in relation to service as an Executive Director.
The 2014 mechanical bonus outcome, before any discretionary adjustment would have been 978,882, but was reduced by approximately 18 per cent to 800,000.
This year the mechanical bonus outcome is 849,649.
In June 2015, the Group reached a settlement with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA with regard to aspects of its Payment Protection Insurance PPI complaint handling process during the period March 2012 to May 2013.
As a result, the Committee decided to make performance adjustments in respect of bonuses awarded in 2012 and 2013 to the Group Executive Committee and some other senior executives given their ultimate oversight of the PPI operations.
The number of shares adjusted was 409,039 for the GCE, 109,464 for the Chief Financial Officer CFO and 376,055 for the Chief Risk Officer CRO pro-rated in the above table to reflect his appointment to Executive Director.
1 F ollowing changes to the amount of tax relief available on pension contributions in each year, Executive Directors may elect to receive some or all of their allowances as cash.
The breakdown of payments made in cash and contributions into the pension scheme are shown below.
2 O ther remuneration payments comprise contractual cash payments to George Culmer as part of the buyout of benefits from his previous employer and income from all employee share plans, which arises through employer matching or discounting of employee purchases.
3 I n addition to deferral and performance adjustment, the GCEs bonus will only vest if the Groups share price remains above 75.5 pence on average for any 126 consecutive trading days in the five years following grant or the UK government sells 100 per cent of its shareholding in the Group at any time during the three years following grant.
50 per cent of the award will vest and be released, at the earliest, on the second anniversary of the award if either of the conditions has been met by that date, with the remaining 50 per cent vesting no less than six months later.
If neither of the conditions has been met by the fifth anniversary of the award, the award will lapse entirely.
4 T he LTIP vesting and dividend equivalents awarded in shares were confirmed by the Remuneration Committee at its meeting on 16 February 2016.
The average share price between 1 October 2015 and 31 December 2015 73.72 pence has been used to indicate the value.
The shares were awarded in 2013 based on a share price of 49.29pence.
LTIP figures for 2014 have been adjusted for the share price on the date of vesting 79.2 pence.
5 T he GCE has a conditional unfunded pension commitment, subject to share price performance.
This was a partial buyout of a pension forfeited on joining from Santander Group.
It is an Employer-Financed Retirement Benefits Scheme EFRBS.
The EFRBS provides benefits on a defined benefit basis at a normal retirement age of 65.
The EFRBS applies for a maximum of six years following the commencement of employment and the maximum allowance over that period is 26.5 per cent of the higher of the GCEs base salary and reference salary in the 12 months before retirement or leaving, subject to performance conditions.
No additional benefit is due in the event of early retirement.
The rate of pension accrual in each year depends on share price conditions being met.
Accrual at 31 December 2015 is a pension of 6 per cent of the reference salary or 73,200.
No new pension entitlement was accrued in 2015.
There are no other Executive Directors with defined benefit pension commitments.
6 U nder terms agreed when joining the Group, the CRO is entitled to a conditional lump sum benefit of 718,996 either i on reaching normal retirement age unless the CRO voluntarily resigns or is dismissed for cause, or ii on leaving due to long term sickness or death.
7 P erformance adjustment: the share price used for the valuation was the market price for a share in the Group at the award dates, 49.29 pence and 78.878 pence, respectively.
For the CRO, the total number of shares 376,055 has been pro-rated to reflect his appointment to Executive Director on 29 November 2013.
92 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Pension and benefits audited Antnio George Juan Pension Benefit Horta-Osrio Culmer Colombs Employer contribution to pension scheme 10,670 18,076 20,774 Cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution 556,890 164,624 160,276 Car or car allowance 12,000 11,168 12,000 Flexible benefits payments 42,440 28,800 28,400 Private medical insurance 28,928 760 13,149 Tax preparation 24,829 15,766 Transportation 32,440 3,598 2013 LTIP vesting audited Indicative Indicative Indicative Number of Vesting Number of share price value of award dividend Indicative shares awarded % shares vesting at vesting at vesting equivalent total value Antnio Horta-Osrio 7,425,441 94.18% 6,993,280 73.72 pence 5,155,446 96,308 5,251,754 George Culmer 4,017,041 94.18% 3,783.249 73.72 pence 2,789,011 52,100 2,841,111 Juan Colombs 3,576,283 94.18% 3,368,143 73.72 pence 2,482,995 46,384 2,529,379 Annual bonus audited In line with 2014, the Groups total bonus outcome is the sum of the divisional and functional bonus outcomes.
The bonus outcome for each division and function is driven by two performance indicators of equal weighting: Group underlying profit and division function Balanced Scorecard BSC performance.
Each performance indicator is used as a modifier to increase or decrease the target bonus outcome in the range of 0 per cent 145 per cent, subject to an overall funding limit as outlined below.
The 2015 annual bonus outcome for the Group excluding TSB was determined by adjusting the Groups target bonus outcome 415.4million in 2015 according to: Group underlying profit performance: a target of 7,536 million was approved by the Board, with threshold and maximum set at 20percent above and below target.
The outcome for 2015 was as follows: Below threshold 0% Threshold 55% On-Target 100% Maximum 145% UNDERLYING PROFIT 6,029m 6,029m 7,536m Actual 7,994m 9,043m This resulted in a modifier of 1.14.
Balanced Scorecard performance: stretching objectives for each division were approved by the Committee around the start of the performance year.
The objectives were aligned to the Groups strategy and split across five categories: Customer People Risk Building the business Financial BSC ratings are based on a scale ranging from Under at the lowest level, through Developing, Good, Strong and up to Top which is the highest rating.
Each of these ratings may be further differentiated by the addition of minus or plus.
For 2015, the Group adopted a new approach whereby each measure in the BSC is assigned targets aligned to the five-point rating scale.
Performance against these targets has been subject to detailed review and calibration by Management and the Committee advisor Deloitte LLP.
This detailed review is intended to support the Committee in exercising judgement.
The Committee reviewed performance in depth to determine ratings for the Group and each division, including consideration of risk matters arising in 2015.
The ratings for each division and function are communicated to colleagues within the business area to ensure bonus outcomes are transparent.
The ratings are considered commercially sensitive: however, as an indication of performance, the overall rating for the Group as determined by the Committee was Strong and the average modifier applied was 1.21.
Key performance factors considered by the Committee in arriving at the performance assessment for the Group included: Improvements in financial results net interest income increased by 5 per cent to 11,482 million, underlying profit increased by 5percent in the year to 8,112 million and there was a 48 per cent improvement in impairments.
The Group successfully completed the sale of TSB.
Growth in the key customer segments net lending to SMEs increased by 5 per cent and there has been continued development of the Groups digital capability.
Low risk the continued reduction in risk-weighted assets resulted in an improvement in the Groups common equity tier 1 ratio and the asset quality ratio continued to improve, demonstrating the Groups low risk position.
Effective cost leadership the ongoing Simplification programme has delivered 373 million of annual run-rate savings to date and is ahead of target in achieving 1 billion of savings by the end of 2017.
The Group has increased investment in IT, with a focus on ensuring that systems and processes are both efficient and resilient.
93 Governance Directors remuneration report continued An increased ordinary dividend of 2.25 pence per share in 2015, in line with its progressive and sustainable dividend policy.
The resilience of our capital position was demonstrated again in 2015 when we comfortably exceeded the threshold for the latest PRA stress test.
Building the best team employee engagement up 11 points and best bank for customers index up 6 points highlighting increased customer focus in the business.
Delivering a consistent and relentless approach under the Group conduct strategy to ensure we deliver customer needs with an open and transparent culture.
Under 0% Developing 55% Good 100% Strong 125% Top 145% BALANCED SCORECARD Collective performance adjustment: consideration was given to items not factored into the Group underlying profit or divisional balanced scorecards.
These included the provisions for legacy conduct-related matters relevant to the year and regulatory settlements in relation to PPI handling.
It also considered positive factors, such as the sale of the remaining holding in TSB at a premium of c. 200 million.
As a result of these items, the Committee approved an overall adjustment of approximately 26 per cent, resulting in a final bonus outcome of 353.7 million as shown in the table below.
Total bonus outcome 2015 final position On-target bonus 415.4m Group underlying profit modifier 1.14 1.21 Divisional functional performance modifier weighted average of all divisions functions Modified total outcome 479.5m Collective performance adjustment approx.
26% Total bonus outcome 353.7m To ensure fairness for the Groups shareholders, the total bonus outcome is subject to a limit of 10 per cent of pre-bonus underlying profit.
For 2015, the bonus outcome of 353.7 million is significantly below the limit of 835 million.
Individual outcomes for Executive Directors The individual bonus awards for Executive Directors are determined in the same way as for colleagues across the Group, with outcomes based on: Group underlying profit performance Balanced Scorecard performance Collective performance adjustment Individual performance On-target award Awards are approved by the Committee, which has discretion to adjust outcomes for any reason.
Antnio Horta-Osrio The Group Chief Executives GCE individual performance assessment for 2015, as confirmed by the Committee, reflected a number of considerations including: Underlying profit increased by 5 per cent to 8,112 million, leading to an improvement in underlying return on required equity to 15 per cent.
Improved financial strength with the pro forma common equity tier 1 CET1 ratio at 13.0 per cent after dividend payments and improved credit rating.
Strong performance on 2015 stress tests, comfortably exceeding the PRA capital threshold.
Continued support for helping Britain prosper plan, maintaining record of above market growth in SME lending.
Continued growth in digital channels and service capabilities for personal customers.
Further improvement in employee engagement survey results.
Successful completion of the TSB sale.
Gained shareholder support for credible and sustainable dividend policy.
2015 ordinary dividends 2.25 pence per share, with an additional special dividend of 0.5 pence per share recommended.
Maintained conditions that allowed UKFI to effect a significant reduction in the government shareholding.
The UKFI shareholding is now around 9 per cent compared to around 25 per cent before the trading plan commenced in December 2014.
Based on a full assessment of performance, the Committee agreed an individual rating for 2015 of Strong for the GCE.
Expected outcomes are based on individual performance before taking into account a modifier based on underlying profit and the Group BSC, as follows: Rating Under Developing Good Strong Top Expected outcome as % of salary 0% 0% 42% 91% 140% 94 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Following the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying profit target and Group BSC objectives, and taking into account the collective performance adjustment of 26 per cent and the individual rating of Strong, the Committee determined a 2015 bonus award to the GCE of 849,649 57 per cent of maximum.
As disclosed previously, the mechanical bonus outcome for the GCEs bonus in 2014 was 978,882.
This award was reduced to 800,000 to reflect the external environment at the time.
The GCEs 2015 bonus of 849,649 is 13 per cent lower than the 2014 mechanical bonus outcome.
George Culmer The Chief Financial Officers CFO personal performance assessment for 2015, as confirmed by the Committee, reflected a number of considerations including: Maintaining a sound performance of the Finance Division, continuing to improve key risk metrics in liquidity, funding and capital.
Playing a key role in the continued improvement in the Groups common equity tier 1 ratio 13 per cent compared to 12.8 per cent for 2014, whilst increasing ordinary dividend payments to 2.25 pence per share, with an additional special dividend of 0.5 pence per share.
Cost leadership, with continued reductions in cost:income ratio to 49.3 per cent.
Rating upgrade from a median of A to A following positive engagement with the Credit Risk Agencies CRAs.
Delivering the completion of the TSB sale.
Well managed relationships with key risk external stakeholders, e. g. investors, regulators and CRAs.
Based on a full assessment of performance, the Committee agreed an individual rating for 2015 of Strong Plus for the CFO.
Expected outcomes are based on individual performance before taking into account a modifier based on underlying profit and the Finance divisions BSC, as follows: Rating Under Developing Good Strong Top Expected outcome as % of salary 0% 0% 30% 65% 100% Following the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying profit target and the Finance divisions BSC objectives, and taking into account the collective performance adjustment of 26 per cent and the individual rating of Strong Plus, the Committee determined a 2015 bonus award to the CFO of 461,846 63 per cent of maximum.
Juan Colombs The Chief Risk Officers CRO personal performance assessment for 2015, as confirmed by the Committee, reflected a number of considerations including: Significant progress in the Groups Risk Management, delivering important steps forward in the governance of the business.
Prudent lending criteria, leading to improved credit quality across all portfolios.
Effective risk management leading to a reduction in the impairment charge to 568 million.
Further improved RWA Capital management and further reductions in the run-off portfolio.
Continued good progress in conduct strategy.
Continued strengthening and enhancement of the Groups policy, standards and control framework.
Based on a full assessment of performance, the Committee agreed an individual rating for 2015 of Strong Plus for the CRO.
Expected outcomes are based on individual performance, before taking into account a modifier based on underlying profit and the Risk divisions BSC, as follows: Rating Under Developing Good Strong Top Expected outcome as % of salary 0% 0% 30% 65% 100% Following the Committees assessment of performance against the underlying profit target and the Risk divisions BSC objectives, and taking into account the collective performance adjustment of 26 per cent and the individual rating of Strong Plus, the Committee determined a 2015 bonus award to the CRO of 455,431 63 per cent of maximum.
Deferral Consistent with the aim of ensuring that short-term financial results are only rewarded if they promote sustainable growth, the 2015 bonus awards for all Executive Directors are deferred into shares until at least March 2018 and subject to malus, clawback and a further holding period following vesting.
They are also subject to remaining in the Groups employment.
The Group Chief Executives 2015 bonus award is subject to an additional condition that the share price must remain above 75.5 pence on average for any 126 consecutive trading days in the five years following grant or the UK government sells 100 per cent of its shareholding during the three years following grant.
The Group has implemented clawback, covering all material risk takers, in line with PRA requirements.
Vested variable remuneration can be recovered from employees for a period of up to seven years after the date of award in the case of a material or severe risk event.
The Committee reserves the right to exercise its discretion in reducing any payment that otherwise would have been earned, if it deems appropriate.
95 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Long-term awards made in March 2013 vesting for the period ended on 31December 2015 audited The Group has performed strongly over the performance period of the 2013 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards, continuing to transform the business for the benefit of its shareholders.
During the performance period of the plan from 1 January 2013 to 31December2015, the Groups share price increased by 47 per cent from 49.69 pence to 73.07 pence.
At the end of the performance period, it has been assessed that awards will vest at 94.18 per cent of maximum.
Vesting at Vesting at Actual Vesting % of Threshold Maximum threshold maximum performance maximum Economic profit 35% of award 1,254m 1,881m 25% 100% 2,233m 35% Absolute total shareholder return 8% per 16% per 30% of award annum annum 25% 100% 16.6% 30% Customer satisfaction FCA reportable 1 complaints per 1,000 accounts over 3 years 10% of award 1.05 0.95 25% 100% 1.02 4.18% Total costs 10% of award 9,323m 8,973m 25% 100% 8,691m 10% Non-core assets at end of 2015 excluding UK Retail 10% of award 37.2bn 28.4bn 25% 100% 10.3bn 10% SME lending 5% of award at market 4% 25% 100% 8.1% 5% 1 Excluding CMC-led complaints and PPI complaints.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive versus the wider employee population Figures for All Employees are calculated using figures for UK-based colleagues subject to the Group Annual Bonus Plan.
This population is considered to be the most appropriate group of employees for these purposes because its remuneration structure is consistent with that of the GCE.
For 2015, 46,474 colleagues were included in this category.
% change in % change % change base salary in bonus in benefits 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 GCE 6% 6% 18% 1 1 1 All employees 2% 14.1 % 2% 1 Adjusted for movements in staff numbers and other impacts to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Relative spend on pay m The graph below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay total remuneration of all Group employees compared with distributions to shareholders.
Distributions to shareholders are ordinary and special dividends.
1 DIVIDEND SALARIES AND PERFORMANCE-BASED m m COMPENSATION 2015 1,962 2015 3,217 2014 535 2014 3,568 1 2015: Ordinary and special dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015, partly paid in 2015 and partly to be paid in 2016.
2014: ordinary dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31December 2014, paid in 2015.
96 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Payments within the reporting year to past directors audited As part of arrangements on leaving the Group, a deferred bonus was released to Tim Tookey 68,713.
Loss of office payments audited There were no payments for the loss of office made to former Directors during 2015.
External appointments held by the Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio During the year ended 31 December 2015, the Group Chief Executive served as a Non-Executive Director of Exor, Fundao Champalimaud, Stichting INPAR and Sociedade Francisco Manuel dos Santos for which he received fees of 216,054 in total.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited Fees 000 Taxable benefits 000 Total 000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Current Non-Executive Directors 1 2 2 Lord Blackwell 700 580 12 9 712 589 3 Alan Dickinson 144 33 144 33 3 Anita Frew 236 202 236 202 3 Simon Henry 105 53 105 53 Dyfrig John 105 105 105 105 Nick Luff 135 135 135 135 Deborah McWhinney 9 9 3 Nick Prettejohn 350 182 350 182 Anthony Watson 209 215 209 215 Sara Weller 135 123 135 123 Former Non-Executive Directors 4 Sir Winfried Bischoff retired April 2014 183 10 193 Carolyn Fairbairn retired October 2015 88 105 88 105 David Roberts retired May 2014 95 95 Total 2,216 2,011 12 19 2,228 2,030 1 Fees reflect the period of service prior to becoming Chairman of the Board.
3 Fees reflect the period in role on a pro-rata basis.
4 2014 taxable benefits are made up of car allowance of 3,136, private medical benefit of 608, and transportation of 6,693.
Breakdown of Non-Executive Directors fees 000s Senior Deputy Independent Audit Remuneration Board Risk SWG 2015 1 Board fee Chairman Director Committee Committee Committee Board fees Other fees Total Alan Dickinson 65 20 9 50 144 Carolyn Fairbairn 54 17 17 88 2 Anita Frew 65 100 20 27 20 4 236 Simon Henry 65 20 20 105 Dyfrig John 65 20 20 105 Nick Luff 65 50 20 135 Deborah McWhinney 5 2 2 9 Nick Prettejohn 65 20 20 245 350 2 Anthony Watson 65 60 20 43 20 1 209 2 Sara Weller 65 20 20 30 135 1 Scottish Widows Group Ltd. 2 Fees for membership of Nomination Committee.
97 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Historical total shareholder return TSR performance The chart below shows the historical TSR of Lloyds Banking Group plc compared with the FTSE 100 as required by the regulations, rebased as at 31 December 2008.
The FTSE 100 index has been chosen as it is a widely recognised equity index of which Lloyds Banking Group plc has been a constituent throughout this period.
Total shareholder return indices Lloyds Banking Group and FTSE 100 Lloyds return index FTSE 100 return index Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2008.
Source: Deloitte Historical Group Chief Executive GCE remuneration outcomes GCE 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GCE single figure of J E Daniels 1,121 2,572 855 remuneration 000 Antnio Horta-Osrio 1,765 3,398 7,475 11,540 8,773 Annual bonus payout J E Daniels Waived 62% 0% % of maximum opportunity Antnio Horta-Osrio Waived 62% 71% 54% 57% Long-term incentive vesting J E Daniels 0% 0% 0% % of maximum opportunity Antnio Horta-Osrio 0% 0% 54% 97% 94.18% Notes: J E Daniels served as GCE until 28 February 2011: Antnio Horta-Osrio was appointed GCE from 1 March 2011.
J E Daniels declined to take a bonus in 2009 and AntnioHorta-Osrio declined to take a bonus in 2011.
98 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Outstanding share awards Directors interests audited Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors were required to build up a holding in Lloyds Banking Group plc shares of value equal to 150 per cent of base salary 200 per cent for the GCE within three years from the later of 1 January 2012 or their date of joining the Board.
With the introduction of the fixed share award in 2014, the gross annual value of this award was added to salary to determine the personal shareholding requirement.
For the purposes of assessing the additional shareholding requirement, Executive Directors have up to three years from 1January 2014 to build up the additional shareholding created by the addition of the fixed share award.
As at 31 December 2015, all Executive Directors significantly exceeded the requirements.
Executive Directors are required to retain any shares vesting from 2013 LTIP awards onwards for a further two years post vesting although vested shares would count towards the shareholding requirement.
4 Number of shares Number of options Total shareholding Value Expected Unvested Unvested Totals at value at subject to Unvested subject to Totals at 24 31 December Owned continued subject to continued Vested 31 December February 2015 2 outright employment performance employment unexercised 2015 2016 000s Executive Directors 1 3 Antnio Horta-Osrio 11,761,072 5,759,844 16,644,524 37,151 34,202,591 34,203,204 18,911 3 George Culmer 7,090,093 1,735,766 9,004,413 37,151 17,867,423 17,867,957 9,766 3 Juan Colombs 3,145,458 1,801,742 8,253,825 29,990 535,231 13,766,246 13,766,780 7,043 Non-Executive Directors Lord Blackwell 50,000 50,000 n a n a Alan Dickinson 100,000 100,000 n a n a Anita Frew 300,000 300,000 n a n a Simon Henry 100,000 100,000 n a n a Dyfrig John 27,385 27,385 n a n a Nick Luff 300,000 300,000 n a n a 1 Deborah McWhinney 200,000 200,000 n a n a Nick Prettejohn n a n a Stuart Sinclair n a n a Anthony Watson 476,357 476,357 n a n a Sara Weller 200,000 200,000 n a n a 1 Shareholdings held by Antnio Horta-Osrio and Deborah McWhinney are either wholly or partially in the form of ADRs.
2 A wards subject to performance under the LTIP had an expected value of 50 per cent of face value at grant using current accounting assumptions.
Values are based on the 31 December 2015 closing price of 73.07 pence.
Full face value of awards are 24,991,833 for Antnio Horta-Osrio, 13,055,725 for George Culmer and 10,058,995 for Juan Colombs.
3 T he changes in beneficial interests for Antnio Horta-Osrio 613 shares, George Culmer 534 shares and Juan Colombs 534 shares relate to partnership and matching shares acquired under the Lloyds Banking Group Share Incentive Plan between 31 December 2015 and 24 February 2016.
There have been no other changes up to 24 February 2016.
4 Including holdings of connected persons.
A summary of transactions undertaken in the year, including share plan awards vested plus open market purchases and sales made by Directors, is shown on page 102.
As a result of the above shareholdings, the position for each Executive Director is as follows: Shareholding requirement Current shareholding Base salary % of base % of base plus fixed share salary plus salary plus Number of award fixed share Number of fixed share shares as at Requirement 1 1 2 Executive Directors 000s award shares award 31 12 15 met Antnio Horta-Osrio 1,961 200% 5,155,439 456% 11,759,547 Yes George Culmer 1,238 150% 2,441,801 435% 7,088,568 Yes Juan Colombs 1,221 150% 2,407,887 214% 3,428,561 Yes 1 N umber of shares required and current shareholding percentage of base salary plus fixed share award figures are calculated using the average share price for the period 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015 76.075 pence.
2 I ncludes shares owned outright reduced by forfeitable matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan, plus the estimated net number of vested unexercised options.
None of those who were Directors at the end of the year had any other interest in the capital of Lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
99 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Breakdown of shares interests audited Long-term incentive plan awarded in 2015 Awards in the form of conditional rights to free shares in 2015 were made over shares with a value of 300 per cent of reference salary for the GCE 4,579,006 shares with a face value of 3,660,000 : 275 per cent for the CFO 2,477,167 shares with a face value of 1,980,000 : and 275 per cent for the CRO 2,442,762 shares with a face value of 1,952,500.
The share price used to calculate face value is the average price over the five days prior to grant 6 March to 11 March 2015, which was 79.93 pence.
This was the average share price used to determine the number of shares awarded.
The performance conditions attached to these awards are set out in the table below.
The performance period ends on 31 December 2017.
Category Measure Basis of payout range Metric Weighting Delivering Absolute TSR Growth in share price Threshold: 8% pa 30% sustainable growth including dividends over Maximum: 16% pa 3-year period Becoming simpler Economic profit Set relative to 2017 targets Threshold: 2,870m 25% and more efficient Maximum: 3,587m Cost:income ratio Set relative to 2017 targets Threshold: 45.6% 10% Maximum: 44.5% Creating the best Customer complaint Average performance over Threshold: 1.15 complaints 10% customer experience handling total FCA 3-year period per 1,000 accounts and 32% reportable complaints FOS uphold rate 1 per 1,000 accounts Maximum: 1.05 complaints and per 1,000 accounts and 28% Financial Ombudsman FOS uphold rate Service FOS uphold rate Net promoter score Major Group average Threshold: 3rd 10% ranking over 2017 Maximum: 1st Digital active customer Set relative to 2017 targets Threshold: 12.7m active users 7.5% base Maximum: 13.3m active users Colleague engagement Set relative to 2017 targets Threshold: 62% 7.5% score Maximum: 70% 1 M easure excludes PPI complaints and any complaints received via Claims Management Companies CMC, but includes Banking, Home Finance, General Insurance, Life, Pensions and Investment complaints.
The Groups performance is heavily influenced by CMC volumes which are automatically reportable if defended.
However, only 2 per cent of complaints received via CMCs are currently upheld by the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS.
Accordingly, the Committee has determined that complaints received via CMCs should be excluded from this measure.
The targets referred to in the table relate to the Groups strategic plan, as approved by the Board.
Further details have not been provided for reasons of commercial sensitivity, but will be disclosed after vesting.
For each measure, 25 per cent will vest for threshold performance, 50 per cent for on-target performance and 100 per cent for maximumperformance.
Deferred bonus awarded in 2015 Bonus is deferred into shares.
The face value of the share awards in respect of bonuses granted in March 2015 was 800,000 1,000,875shares for the GCE: 496,000 620,542 shares for the CFO: and 467,892 585,376 shares for the CRO.
The share price used tocalculate the face value is the average price over the five days prior to grant 6 March to 11 March 2015, which was 79.93 pence.
2 E xecutive share award granted on 6 August 2012 for the loss of deferred share awards forfeited on leaving RSA Insurance Group plc.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 78.28 pence.
4 S hare buy-out award granted on 30 March 2011 for the loss of deferred share awards forfeited on leaving the Santander Group.
Awards are consistent with those forfeited and have a nil option price.
The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options was 3,491,290.
None of the other Directors at 31 December 2015 had options to acquire shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
The market price for a share in the Group at 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 was 75.82 pence and 73.07 pence, respectively.
The range of prices between 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 was 68.68 pence to 89.00 pence.
Lloyds Banking Group long-term incentive plan audited The following table shows conditional shares awarded under the plan.
Further information regarding this plan can be found on pages 100 and 105.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on that date was 79.2 pence.
101 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Directors interests summary of awards vested, purchases and sales made by directors in 2015 unaudited Holding at 1 January 2015 Transactions Holding at or appointment during Number of 31 December date the year shares Notes 2015 Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio 6,204,884 12 03 15 4,937,883 Release of 2012 LTIP 27 03 15 149,642 Fixed Share Award 19 05 15 56 Dividend reinvestment 25 06 15 136,880 Fixed Share Award 29 09 15 162,262 Fixed Share Award 21 12 15 166,993 Fixed Share Award Monthly 2,472 Share Incentive Plan purchase and matching shares 11,761,072 George Culmer 1,232,436 12 03 15 2,384,313 Release of 2012 LTIP 27 03 15 83,799 Fixed Share Award 31 03 15 2,358,546 Exercise of Share Buy out Award 19 05 15 11,151 Dividend reinvestment 25 06 15 76,652 Fixed Share Award 25 06 15 357,526 Release of 2012 Deferred Bonus 02 09 15 357,526 Release of 2012 Deferred Bonus 28 09 15 41,358 Dividend reinvestment 29 09 15 90,867 Fixed Share Award 21 12 15 93,516 Fixed Share Award Monthly 2,403 Share Incentive Plan purchase and matching shares 7,090,093 Juan Colombs 3,101,794 12 03 15 2,122,701 Release of 2012 LTIP 12 03 15 118,078 Release of 2011 Deferred Bonus 27 03 15 82,635 Fixed Share Award 20 05 15 3,647 Dividend reinvestment 12 06 15 2,750,000 Sale 25 06 15 75,588 Fixed Share Award 25 06 15 44,355 Release of 2012 Deferred Bonus 02 09 15 162,436 Release of 2011 and 2012 Deferred Bonus 29 09 15 89,604 Fixed Share Award 21 12 15 92,217 Fixed Share Award Monthly 2,403 Share Incentive Plan purchase and matching shares 3,145,458 Non-Executive Directors Lord Blackwell 50,000 50,000 Alan Dickinson 50,000 30 10 2015 50,000 Purchase 100,000 Anita Frew 300,000 300,000 Simon Henry 30 06 2015 100,000 Purchase 100,000 Dyfrig John 27,385 27,385 Nick Luff 200,000 20 03 2015 100,000 Purchase 300,000 1 Deborah McWhinney 200,000 200,000 Nick Prettejohn Anthony Watson 476,357 476,357 Sara Weller 200,000 200,000 1 Held in 50,000 ADRs with one ADR being equivalent to four ordinary shares.
102 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Implementation of the policy in 2016 It is proposed to operate the policy in the following way in 2016: Base salary In line with the policy, when determining and reviewing base salary levels, the Committee ensures that decisions are made within the following two parameters: An objective assessment of the individuals responsibilities and the size and scope of their role, using objective job-sizing methodologies.
The Group has applied a 2 per cent overall salary budget increase for the general population differentiated by performance and market position with increases of around 5 per cent for strongly performing colleagues.
Salary increases of 2 per cent are proposed for the Chief Financial Officer CFO and the Chief Risk Officer CRO.
When the Group Chief Executive Officer GCE, Antnio Horta-Osrio, was appointed to the Board at the start of 2011 it was agreed that, reflecting the weak financial position of the Group at that time, his salary would initially be held at 1,061,000, a level below the prevailing market rate.
To recognise this fact, the agreement with the GCE also contained a market related reference salary of 1.22 million, to be used in setting long term remuneration such as pension and LTIP.
Since 2011 the Group has achieved a successful transformation of its financial strength under his leadership and the government has reduced its shareholding from over 40 per cent to around 9 per cent.
Until now, however, the GCE has received no increase in his base salary since joining the Board in January 2011, despite overall pay settlements in the Group, including the proposed 2 per cent for 2016, amounting to 13.8 per cent since 2011.
For the first time since 2011, a base salary increase is proposed for the GCE.
The GCE was hired on the basis that upon the Government shareholding falling in the range of 15-20 per cent or less, the Committee would consider his remuneration being increased in line with market conditions.
With the Governments shareholding now being around 9 per cent and given the recovery of the Groups financial strength, the Committee has decided it should now begin to adjust the GCEs salary towards the reference salary.
After discussion with shareholders, the Committee has decided to stage this adjustment over two years.
For 2016, this will consist of an increase in base salary of 2 per cent, in line with the other Executive Directors, and an additional increase of 4 per cent to reflect the arrangements above, taking his total salary to 1,125,000.
The GCE has suggested, and the Board has approved, that for 2016 the 4 per cent increase be delivered in shares and held until the Government has sold its shareholding in the Group.
After this increase, the GCEs salary remains conservative compared to peers.
Salaries will therefore be as follows, effective dates shown below: GCE: 1,125,000 1 January 2016 CFO: 749,088 1 April 2016 CRO: 738,684 1 January 2016 There is no change to the GCEs reference salary of 1.22million which is used to calculate certain elements of long-term remuneration and the pension allowance.
Fixed share award Fixed share awards were introduced in 2014 in order to ensure that total fixed remuneration is commensurate with role and to provide a competitive reward package for Executive Directors, with an appropriate balance of fixed and variable remuneration, in line with regulatory requirements.
The actual levels of award set for 2016 are as follows: GCE: 900,000 CFO: 504,000 CRO: 497,000 Shares will be released in equal tranches over a five year period.
Pension In line with the remuneration policy, Executive Directors are entitled to a pension allowance which they may choose to take as cash in lieu of pension contributions.
The level of allowances has not been increased for 2016.
GCE: 50 per cent of reference salary less flexible benefits allowance CFO: 25 per cent of base salary CRO: 25 per cent of base salary The GCE is also entitled to the provision of an Employer-Financed Retirement Benefits Scheme EFRBS, subject to performance conditions, as described further in the annual report on remuneration.
Benefits For 2016, the benefits provided to Executive Directors include a car allowance, transportation, private medical insurance, life assurance and other benefits selected through the flexible benefits allowance which is capped at 4 per cent of base salary.
All employee plans Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Groups Sharesave and Sharematch plans on the same basis as other employees.
103 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual bonus Opportunity The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 140 per cent of base salary for the GCE and 100 per cent of base salary for other Executive Directors.
All assessments of performance are ultimately subject to the Committees judgement, but no award will be made if threshold performance for the financial measure is not met and or the individual is rated Developing performer or below.
The expected value of the bonus is 30 per cent of the maximum opportunity.
Deferral For the 2016 performance year, the annual bonus will be awarded in a combination of cash up to 50percent and shares.
40 per cent of the annual bonus will be released immediately on award, 40 per cent will be released on the first anniversary of award andthe remaining 20 per cent will be released on the second anniversary of award.
These deferral arangements will apply to the GCE and the other Executive Directors.
Performance measures For 2016 the annual bonus will be based on: and targets Underlying profit 50 per cent Balanced scorecard BSC objectives comprising five categories customer, people, control environment, building the business, finance 50 per cent The Committee considers the targets that apply to these measures to be commercially sensitive but will provide information on the level of payout relative to the performance achieved in next years annual report on remuneration.
The Committee applies its judgement to determine the payout level commensurate with business and or individual performance in determining the final BSC rating.
Performance adjustment is determined by the Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee and may result in a reduction of up to 100 per cent of the bonus opportunity.
The Independent Performance Adjustment Committee IPAC reviews the BSC outcomes and submits a report to the Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee to assist in this process.
The application of malus will generally be considered when: there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour, misconduct or material error or that they participated in conduct which resulted in losses for the Group or failed to meet appropriate standards of fitness and propriety: there is material failure of risk management at a Group, business area, division and or business unit level: the financial results at a Group, division or business unit level are re-stated or consideration is given torestatement: the Committee determines that the financial results for a given year do not support the level of variable remuneration awarded: and or any other circumstances where the Committee consider adjustments should be made.
Individual performance adjustment is informed using a matrix-based approach taking into account the severity of the issue, the individuals proximity to the issue and the individuals behaviour in relation to the issue.
In addition, the annual bonus may be subject to clawback for a period of up to seven years after the date of award.
The application of clawback will generally be considered when: there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error: or there is material failure of risk management at a Group, business area, division and or business unit level.
104 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Long-term incentive plan Opportunity The maximum annual long-term incentive award for Executive Directors is 300 per cent of salary.
Awards in 2016 are being made as follows: GCE: 300 per cent of reference salary CFO: 275 per cent of base salary CRO: 275 per cent of base salary Performance measures 2016 awards will be subject to a three-year performance period, and a two-year holding period following vesting.
and targets During 2015 and early 2016, the Committee consulted widely with various shareholders on appropriate performance measures and, in particular, on how management can be incentivised through the LTIP to successfully deliver the objectives set out in the Group Strategic Review.
The awards made in 2016 will vest based on the Groups performance against the following key measures: Absolute Total Shareholder Return 30 per cent Economic profit 25 per cent Cost:income ratio 10 per cent Strategic measures 35 per cent The following table provides a breakdown of these measures and the targets applicable.
The Committee believes these measures capture risk management and profit growth and appropriately align management and shareholder interests.
This period may be extended to 10 years where there is an ongoing internal or regulatory investigation.
The Committee may consider the application of malus and clawback as outlined in the annual bonus section above.
Strategic focus Measure Basis of payout range Metric Weighting Delivering Absolute Total Growth in share price Threshold: 8% 30% sustainable growth Shareholder including dividends over Maximum: 16% Return TSR 3-year period 1 Becoming simpler Economic profit Set relative to Threshold: 2,507m 25% 2018 targets Maximum: 3,308m and more efficient Cost:income ratio Set relative to Threshold: 47.3% 10% 2018 targets Maximum: 46.1% 2,3 Creating the best Total reportable complaints Set relative to See note 2 below 10% customer experience and 2018 targets Financial Ombudsman 35% 3 Service FOS uphold rate 25% Net promoter score Major Group average Threshold: 3rd 10% ranking over 2018 Maximum: 1st Digital active Set relative to Threshold: 13.4m 7.5% customer base 2018 targets Maximum: 14m Colleague Set relative to Threshold: 66% 7.5% engagement score 2018 targets Maximum: 72% 1 T he reduction in economic profit compared to the 2015 LTIP for 2017 performance reflects the introduction of the corporation tax surcharge for banks of 8 per cent.
2 M easure excludes PPI complaints and any complaints received via Claims Management Companies, but includes Banking, Home Finance, General Insurance, Life, Pensions and Investment complaints.
The FCA has issued guidance which applies from 2016.
The threshold and maximum for total reportable complaints are subject to validation, based on experience in H1 2016 and will be disclosed to shareholders later in the year.
3 T he Board will continue to review its risk appetite and to the extent that this results in changes to the acceptable level of uphold, consideration will be given to bringing the metric in line with revised appetite.
The metric will be no easier to achieve.
105 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees in 2016 The annual fee for the Chairman was increased by 2 per cent to 714,000, in line with the overall salary budget for the general colleague population.
The annual Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed in November 2015.
As a result of this review and following consultation with shareholders, for the first time since 2008, the fees were increased, as follows, to reflect market practice in financial services groups of a similar size.
These changes took effect from 1 January 2016.
2016 2015 Basic fee 75,000 65,000 Deputy Chairman 100,000 100,000 Senior Independent Director 60,000 60,000 Audit Committee Chairmanship 60,000 50,000 Remuneration Committee Chairmanship 60,000 50,000 Board Risk Committee Chairmanship 60,000 50,000 Responsible Business Committee Chairmanship 30,000 30,000 Audit Committee membership 30,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee membership 30,000 20,000 Board Risk Committee membership 30,000 20,000 1 Responsible Business Committee members 10,000 N A 2 Nomination & Governance Committee membership 5,000 5,000 1 New members only.
2 Where individual is not already Chairman of another Committee.
Non-Executive Directors may receive more than one of the above fees.
The following pages contain information that is required to be audited in compliance with the Directors remuneration requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
All narrative and quantitative tables are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
Additional disclosures 1 Emoluments of the eight highest paid senior executives The following table sets out the emoluments of the eight highest paid senior executives excluding Executive Directors in respect of the 2015 performance year.
Variable remuneration in respect of performance year 2015.
LTIP values shown reflect awards for which the performance period ended on 31December 2015 and include dividend equivalents.
Pension costs based on a percentage of salary according to level.
On behalf of the Board Anita Frew Chairman, Remuneration Committee 106
