Governance 128 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction The Directors Remuneration Policy described in this section was approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM on 15 May 2014.
The policy can be found in each of the Directors Remuneration Reports from 2013 onwards, which are available from the reporting centre of the Investor Relations part of the Companys website.
The committee will consider the Directors Remuneration Policy annually, to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned relative to the market.
The Directors Remuneration Policy must be put before shareholders for approval at least every three years.
Market benchmarks We benchmark total potential remuneration against remuneration packages paid by peer group companies.
Two peer groups are used for this purpose, namely: i FTSE 100 companies of a similar size by market capitalisation: and ii large European insurers.
The peer groups are kept under review to take into account different companies that enter the market or those that change their size or the main characteristics of their business.
We also look at remuneration arrangements in other types of UK-based financial sector companies.
Balancing shortand long-term remuneration Based on our view of current market practice and our remuneration principles, we have established the remuneration policy set out in this report.
Fixed annual elements, including base pay and benefits, recognise the status of our executives and ensure current and future market competitiveness.
STI and LTI arrangements are designed to motivate and reward them for making the Company successful on a sustainable basis.
Executive directors are also expected to retain sufficient of the vested shares from LTI and deferred STI share incentive awards, over a five-year period from the time of their appointment, to meet their respective shareholding requirements.
The shareholding linkage cements the relationship between the executive directors personal returns and those of the Companys investors.
The committee has discretion to amend the weighting of STI and LTI measures from year to year, in order to ensure that the executive directors are incentivised to drive performance in line with the Companys core strategic objectives.
Directors Remuneration Policy table executive directors How the element supports our strategic Maximum potential payout Performance measures used, objectives Operation of the element and payment at threshold weighting and time period applicable Base pay Recognises the Paid in 12 monthly instalments Base pay is set in the range of None role and the peer benchmark groups.
Reviewed annually with any responsibility for The maximum is the top of the changes becoming effective delivery of range of large European insurers from 1 January.
strategy and Maximum annual increases will not results normally exceed the average increase for the home country workforce.
Larger increases may be awarded in certain circumstances, such as an increase in scope or responsibility of the role, or salary progression for a newly appointed director.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 129 How the element supports our strategic Maximum potential payout Performance measures used, objectives Operation of the element and payment at threshold weighting and time period applicable Benefits allowance for retirement provision and other elective benefits Designed to The Company provides a benefit A fixed allowance of 35% None provide allowance to fund contributions to of base pay.
appropriate, retirement funding arrangements market-aligned and other elective benefits benefits consistent Otherwise paid monthly in cash.
with the role Other benefits The cost of core insured benefits None Benefits common to employees is determined by the insurance of the home employer, health provider based on experience factors assessments and the opportunity in the pool of employees covered and to participate in Sharesave so may vary from year to year Travel from home to work, and The Company offers the opportunity travel for partners to certain to participate in a HMRC-approved Board meetings or corporate Sharesave scheme events of the Company and its All other benefits are direct costs major subsidiaries borne by the Company based on For overseas appointments, policy agreed by the committee flexibility to provide benefits in line A summary of key items normally paid for with those of the executives home on relocation is set out in the Approach country and relocation costs for to remuneration in connection with internal or external appointments recruitment section of this report.
Short-term incentive STI Incentivises Determined annually following the The maximum opportunity is 150% Annual measures include: achievement finalisation of annual results of base pay Financial minimum 50% : of annually EPS in constant currency 50% of the award vests Vesting against targets is 0% at threshold agreed business RoE immediately and 100% at stretching targets, with objectives and Strategic and operational: interpolation between the points 50% is deferred for a period of strategic priorities measures of individual three years into a share incentive The committee has discretion: performance set out in the award.
Dividends are paid during to amend, and or set different directors personal the restricted period and malus performance measures for material scorecard changes such as a change in strategy, applies to the shares held under The committee has acquisition, divestment or market award prior to vesting discretion to vary the conditions, if it considers such The committee has the discretion weighting of the amendments necessary to achieve to amend deferred STI awards performance measures the original purpose and any new under the rules of the plan, to over the life of the Directors measures are not materially less adjust deferred STI awards in the Remuneration Policy difficult to satisfy event of any variation of the share to adjust the outcome, if it is not aligned The committee has discretion capital of the Company, and to to the overall performance of the to reduce STI outcomes adjust or vest deferred STI awards Company based on assessment of risk on a demerger, special dividend exposures.
Any use of the discretions would, where or other similar event, which relevant, be explained in the Annual affects the market price of the Report on Remuneration and may, shares to a material extent.
as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 130 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED How the element supports our strategic Maximum potential payout Performance measures used, objectives Operation of the element and payment at threshold weighting and time period applicable Long-term incentive LTI Incentivises Annual grants of share Maximum annual grants will not normally Awards granted in 2015: attainment incentive awards or options exceed a face value of 250% of base pay, Financial 70% of long-term over Old Mutual plc shares inclusive of the maximum TSR multiplier Strategic 30% objectives and being applied Vesting is subject to the TSR multiplier against strengthens the achievement of performance In exceptional circumstances, or on FTSE 100 Index 50% alignment of targets measured after a threerecruitment, the committee may grant and the JSE ALSI 50% interests between year period awards with a face value of up to 400% Awards granted in 2013 executive of base pay, inclusive of the maximum Vesting occurs 50% after three and 2014: directors and TSR adjuster being applied.
This is in years and 50% after four years.
Financial 60% shareholders addition to the buying out of unvested Malus applies to the shares held Strategic 40% awards from a previous employer under option or award prior TSR multiplier against the to vesting Vesting is 0% at threshold and 100% FTSE 100 Index 50% and at stretching targets, with interpolation The committee has discretion: the JSE ALSI 50% between the points before the grant of an award, Awards granted in 2012: to decide that a participant The committee has discretion: Cumulative growth over shall be entitled to receive to amend, and or set different three years in post-tax dividend equivalents performance measures for material AOP on a constant changes such as a change in strategy, to amend awards under the rules currency basis acquisition, divestment or market of the plan, to adjust awards in conditions, if it considers such TSR multiplier against the the event of any variation of the amendments necessary to achieve the FTSE 100 Index 50% and share capital of the Company, original purpose and any new measures the JSE ALSI 50% and to adjust or vest awards on are not materially less difficult to satisfy a demerger, special dividend or The committee has other similar event which affects to adjust the outcome, if it is not aligned to discretion to vary the the market price of the shares to the overall performance of the Company weighting of performance a material extent.
measures over the life Any use of the discretions would, where of the Directors relevant, be explained in the Annual Remuneration Policy.
Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Shareholding requirement To strengthen The minimum shareholding None None alignment of requirement as a percentage of interests between base pay is to be achieved within executive five years of appointment to the role directors and as follows: shareholders Group Chief Executive 200% Other executive directors 150% Unvested and vested but unexercised share awards or options are not taken into account in the calculation.
Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply Any commitment made before: i 27 June 2012: or ii the individual becoming an executive director of the Company: and any vesting of outstanding share incentive awards, will be honoured, even where it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled or such vesting occurs.
Malus provision All LTI and deferred STI awards contain a malus provision, which gives the committee the power to reduce awards if the results on which they were based were misleading or materially incorrect or were subsequently found to have relied on poor risk management or material misrepresentation of performance.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 131 Notes to the Directors Remuneration Policy table executive directors Performance measures and targets The committee selects performance measures that are central to the Companys overall strategy and are used by the executive directors and Board in overseeing the operation of the business.
The performance targets for STI are determined annually by the committee and are set in a range around the business plan for the year, as agreed by the Board.
External directorships Executive directors are, subject to prior clearance by the Board, permitted to hold one external non-executive directorship of a listed company and are entitled to retain the fees payable to them for doing so.
Treatment of incentive awards on termination or change of control For all deferred shortand long-term incentives, the share incentive plan rules provide for automatic Good Leaver status on termination of employment in the event of: i death: ii retirement: iii injury or disability: iv redundancy: v the employing company or business ceasing to be a subsidiary or business of Old Mutual plc: and vi certain takeovers and other corporate events.
In addition, the committee has discretion to award Good Leaver status for any other reason discretionary Good Leavers.
In these circumstances, the committee has discretion to apply less generous terms than would apply under the automatic Good Leaver reasons.
The committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the executive directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
Component Automatic Good Leaver Other leaver Change of control STI Pro-rata payment for the period No award will At the discretion of the committee.
worked in the performance year, be made.
based on agreed performance criteria Paid in cash.
Deferred STI Vesting of all awards on termination.
Outstanding Vest automatically except in the case awards are forfeit.
of internal re-organisations or mergers, as defined in the rules, where there may be an automatic surrender and replacement of awards in the new acquiring company.
LTI Vest on the normal vesting date Outstanding Vest subject to the achievement of except in the event of death or awards are forfeit.
performance measures and where other exceptional pro-rated from grant date to the compassionate reasons apply, when anniversary of grant date following vesting may be immediate, subject change of control, but the committee to achievement of performance may disapply pro-rating if it targets, calculated on a pro-rata considers it appropriate to do so basis, based on the period of time For internal reorganisations or after the date of grant and ending mergers, as defined in the rules, on the date of termination relative to there may be an automatic the restricted period surrender and replacement of The committee has discretion to awards in the new acquiring disapply time-based pro-rating company.
Sharesave In line with HMRC rules and the In line with HMRC In line with HMRC rules and the rules rules of Sharesave.
rules and the rules of Sharesave.
Anyone who is not a Good Leaver or a discretionary Good Leaver.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Companys approach to executive director and wider employee remuneration is based on a common set of remuneration principles and a governance structure, which have been implemented across all major subsidiaries.
This includes subsidiary remuneration committees with agreed terms of reference, who have oversight over local matters and ensure that the remuneration principles and policies are implemented consistently.
Although the committee does not consult directly with employees on executive director remuneration policy, it reviews proposals in the context of a detailed understanding of remuneration for the broader employee population.
The structure of total remuneration packages for executive directors, and for the broader employee population, is similar, comprising base pay, pension and benefits and eligibility for a discretionary STI based on performance in the financial year.
The level of STI and the portion deferred are determined by role and responsibility.
The Group LTI plan applies to executive directors and senior executives based at the Groups head office in London, and other LTI plans are in place for senior executives in subsidiary companies.
Annual base pay increases for the executive directors are limited to the average pay increase for employees in their home country, unless there has been a change in role or salary progression for a newly appointed director.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 132 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Approach to remuneration in connection with recruitment The committees approach to remuneration in connection with recruitment is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
It should be noted that the Company operates in a specialised sector and many of its competitors for talent are from outside the UK.
Remuneration terms for any new executive directors will be based on the approved remuneration policy and would include the same elements, and be subject to the same constraints, as those of the existing executive directors as shown below: Element of remuneration Maximum percentage of base pay Base pay Benefit allowance for retirement, elective benefits or in cash 35% Other benefits Dependent on circumstances and location STI 150% LTI 250% 400% in exceptional circumstances When it is necessary to buy out an individuals unvested awards from a previous employer, the committee will seek to match the expected value of the awards by granting awards that vest over a time frame similar to those given up, with a commensurate reduction in quantum where the new awards will be subject to performance conditions that are not as stretching as those applicable to the awards given up.
Existing annual incentive given up may be bought out on an expected value basis or, at the discretion of the committee, through a guaranteed STI award for the first performance year only.
Where appropriate, the committee will agree reasonable costs of relocation in line with the Groups mobility policy which, based on individual circumstances, provides for a settling-in allowance and costs incurred such as travel, shipping, immigration and tax advice, temporary housing, transaction costs on home sale purchase, home school search and school fees and, if in relation to a temporary assignment, tax equalisation and a housing allowance.
All of these costs will be covered gross of tax incurred by the executive, where applicable.
Service agreements and payment for loss of office Executive directors service agreements are designed to provide an appropriate level of protection for the executive and the Company by: i setting out individual entitlements to elements of remuneration consistent with policy: ii summarising notice periods and compensation on termination of employment by the Company: and iii describing the obligations in relation to confidentiality, data protection, intellectual property and restraint on certain activities.
Service agreements for the current executive directors are available on the Companys website www.
In the event that the employment of an executive director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service agreement between the Company and the executive director, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Companys policy is to make payments in accordance with pre-established contractual arrangements, but with consideration of individual circumstances.
These circumstances may include the reason for termination and, for deferred STI and LTI share incentive awards, some discretion in the determination of Good Leaver status for vesting of such awards.
The policy in this respect is set out in the following table: Standard provision Policy Details Other provisions in contract Notice Policy is to provide a maximum of In certain cases, executive Current contractual terms 12 months notice.
directors will not be required to for Julian Roberts were work their notice period and, agreed before 27 June 2012 depending on the circumstances, and, in the absence of may be put on garden leave or certain conditions relating to granted pay in lieu of all or part ill health or accident, of their notice period PILON.
provide Julian Roberts with PILON, including base pay, notice by the Company of 12 benefits and pension-related months and notice to the benefits, would normally be paid Company of 12 months.
monthly and be subject to mitigation when alternative employment is secured but may also be paid as a lump sum Executive directors are generally subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 133 Standard provision Policy Details Other provisions in contract Treatment of STI awards will be made to Good Paid in cash.
In the event of termination STI awards Leavers based on an overall by the Company with assessment of corporate and personal PILON, or on garden leave, performance and pro-rated for the Julian Roberts contract period worked in the performance agreed before 27 June year of termination.
2012, provides for payment of STI for the notice period.
The value to be paid will be determined by the committee based on the terms set out in the contract.
Treatment of All awards lapse except for LTI vesting for Good Leavers is unvested LTI and Good Leavers.
based on the achievement of deferred STI share performance conditions.
The incentive awards number of shares to vest would be calculated on a pro-rata basis, based on the period of time after the date of grant and ending on the date of termination relative to the restricted period Deferred STI awards for Good Leavers vest fully on termination.
Compensation Settlement agreements with Terms are subject to the signing There are no other for loss of office executive directors may provide for, of a settlement agreement.
contractual provisions as appropriate: for compensation for loss of office.
Incidental costs related to the termination, such as legal fees for advice on the settlement agreement Provision of outplacement services Payment in lieu of accrued, but untaken, holiday entitlements Exit payments in relation to any legal obligation or damages arising from such obligation Settlement of any claim arising from the termination Continuation or payment in lieu of other incidental benefits In the case of redundancy, two weeks base pay per year of service.
Non-executive One months notice 12 months for Non-executive directors are No compensation is directors the Chairman subject to annual re-election payable on termination at the Companys Annual of appointment as a Appointed for an initial three-year General Meeting.
term Normally expected to serve two three-year terms, subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting A third term of up to three years may be offered on a year by year basis after completion of the first two terms.
Subject to further adjustments which may be applied to discretionary Good Leavers as set out in the Treatment of incentive awards on termination or change of control section of this report.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Governance 134 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Dates of directors service contracts and letters of appointment Commencement date Executive director in current role Continuous service date Notice period Bruce Hemphill 1 November 2015 1 November 2015 12 months Paul Hanratty 1 July 2014 16 January 1984 12 months Ingrid Johnson 1 July 2014 1 September 1993 12 months Date of original Date of current Date current Non-executive director appointment appointment Current term as director appointment terminates Patrick OSullivan 1 January 2010 1 January 2016 3rd First period 1 January 2017 Mike Arnold 1 September 2009 1 September 2015 3rd First period 1 September 2016 Zoe Cruz 6 January 2014 6 January 2014 1st 6 January 2017 Alan Gillespie 3 November 2010 3 November 2013 2nd 3 November 2016 Danuta Gray 1 March 2013 1 March 2016 2nd 1 March 2019 Adiba Ighodaro 6 January 2014 6 January 2014 1st 6 January 2017 Trevor Manuel 1 January 2016 1 January 2016 1st 1 January 2019 Roger Marshall 5 August 2010 5 August 2013 2nd 5 August 2016 Nkosana Moyo 1 September 2013 1 September 2013 1st 1 September 2016 Vassi Naidoo 1 May 2015 1 May 2015 1st 1 May 2018 Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita 9 March 2012 9 March 2015 2nd 9 March 2018 Directors service contracts and letters of engagement for the non-executive directors are available on the Companys website at www.
com Directors Remuneration Policy table non-executive directors How the element supports our strategic Performance measures used, objectives Operation of the elements fees and benefits Maximum potential payout weighting and time period applicable To attract Fees for non-executive directors Fees are set within the range of Non-executive directors are non-executive other than the Chairman are comparative board and committee fees, not eligible to participate directors who set by the Board and paid in in performance-related benchmarked against an appropriate have the broad 12 monthly instalments incentive plans.
Average range of increases will not normally exceed the The Chairmans fees are set experience and average increase for the UK workforce, by the committee and paid in skills required 12 monthly instalments except where: to oversee the Travel for partners to a limited committee roles or responsibilities implementation number of Board meetings or change significantly: or of the strategy.
corporate events of the Company market fees in relation to certain roles and its major subsidiaries.
change significantly Non-executive directors may hold positions on the boards of subsidiary companies and are entitled to retain the fees payable to them for doing so.
OLD MUTUAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
