Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Remuneration Policy report This policy report was approved at the 2015 AGM and took effect from the date of approval.
It is reported here for information only.
It is currently intended that the Policy will apply for the three-year period following approval, subject to any change which may occur in the external regulatory framework within the sector in which OSB operates.
Policy overview This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the Remuneration Policy for OneSavings Bank and has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended.
The Policy has been developed taking into account a number of regulatory and governance principles, including: The UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
The regulatory framework applying to the Financial Services Sector including the PRA Remuneration Code and provisions of CRD IV.
The executive remuneration guidelines of the main institutional investors and their representative bodies.
Objectives of the Remuneration Policy The overriding principles of the Remuneration Policy for employees across the Group are as follows: Attract, motivate and retain high performing employees.
Adhere to and respond to the regulatory framework for the financial services sector and UK Listed companies more generally.
Strike an appropriate balance between risk taking and reward.
Encourage and support a strong sales and service culture.
Reward the achievement of the overall business objectives of the Group.
Align employees interests with those of shareholders and customers.
Be consistent with the Groups risk policies and systems to guard against inappropriate risk taking.
In respect of the Executive Directors and senior management, performance-related pay will form a significant but appropriate part of remuneration packages and there will be an appropriate balance between short and longer-term performance targets linked to the delivery of the Groups objectives.
The policy is intended to be delivered via a remuneration framework with the flexibility of being able to combine base salary, benefits, commission, annual bonuses and employee share plans.
The specific policy applying to Executive Directors is set out in the table and accompanying notes on page 70.
How we take account of risk in the Remuneration Policy Risk management is at the heart of our business, and underpins all business decisions.
In the context of remuneration, the Committee takes account of risk in a number of ways, including: Ensuring that the balance of remuneration i. e. absolute pay levels and the balance between fixed and performance-related pay is appropriate to our business and risk appetite.
In the choice of performance metrics and time horizons applying to incentives, whereby a broad balance of measures is used across our plans.
The use of appropriate underpins and discretions to our incentive plans, allowing the Committee to take account of the wider risk management framework when judgeing the out-turn under incentive plans.
Having a significant proportion of performance-related pay deferred and paid in shares.
The inclusion of clawback and malus provisions on incentive pay, which may apply for a period of up to seven years following the end of the performance period.
As a Level 3 PRA regulated firm, we also take seriously the requirements of the Remuneration Code.
In the design of our Remuneration Policy, we have therefore responded to the evolving regulation in this area, including the application of the EBA cap on variable remuneration to Level 3 Code Banks.
As a result, we sought shareholder approval to increase the cap on our variable pay to up 200% of fixed pay i. e. a 2:1 ratio, and our Remuneration Policy is designed to operate within this cap.
How the views of shareholders and employees are taken into account The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees on executive pay but receives periodic updates from the General Manager, Human Resources in relation to salary and bonus reviews across the Company.
As set out in the policy table overleaf, in setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company and salary increases will ordinarily be in percentage of salary terms in line with those of the wider workforce.
Thus, the Committee is satisfied that the decisions made in relation to Executive Directors pay are made with an appropriate understanding of the wider workforce.
The Committee will seek to engage with shareholders and their representative bodies when it is proposed that any material changes are to be made to the Remuneration Policy.
In addition, we will consider any shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM.
This, plus any additional feedback received from time to time, will be considered as part of the Committees annual review of Remuneration Policy.
70 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Policy report continued The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The table below and accompanying notes summarise the key aspects of OneSavings Banks Remuneration Policy for ExecutiveDirectors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance conditions Maximum Salary To recruit and reward Paid monthly.
Average annual increases will executives of a suitable generally be broadly in line with calibre for the role and Base salaries are reviewed annually, with any the average of the workforce.
Higher increases may be awarded in response to acute Recognises individuals No performance conditions apply to the payment retention issues, an increase in experience, of salary.
However, when setting salaries, account the scope of the role, following responsibility and is taken of an individuals specific role, duties, the appointment of a new performance.
experience and contribution to the organisation.
executive which could also include internal promotions to As part of the salary review process, the bring that executives package in Committee takes account of the external market line with market over a number for UK listed companies both in the Financial of years or in response to Services sector and across all sectors, in order to marketfactors.
ensure that salary positioning is appropriate.
Whilst this is not the key driver of salary increases, it provides important background context.
Benefits To provide market The Company provides: There is no maximum cap on competitive benefits to car allowance 13,000 and 9,000 for the CEO benefits, as the cost of benefits ensure the well-being of and CFO respectively : may vary according to the employees.
life assurance: external market but the nature income protection: and of the benefits themselves will private medical insurance.
Pension To provide retirement Directors may participate in a defined contribution Up to 13% of salary, subject to planning to employees.
plan, or, if they are in excess of the HMRC annual or employee matching.
lifetime allowances for contributions, may elect to receive cash in lieu of all or some of such benefit.
The maximum bonus Annual To incentivise and The annual bonus targets will have at least a 75% opportunity is 100% of salary.
bonus reward individuals for weighting based on performance under an agreed the achievement of balanced scorecard which includes an element of pre-defined, Committee risk appraisal.
The remaining balance will be based on personal performance targets.
approved, annual financial and The objectives in the scorecard, and the weightings operational objectives on each element will be set annually, and may be which are closely linked flexed according to role.
Each element will be to the corporate assessed independently, but with Committee strategy.
discretion to reduce the resulting outcome.
Details of the performance targets set for the year under review and a summary of performance against them will normally be provided in the annual report on remuneration.
50% of any bonus paid will be made in shares under the OneSavings Bank Deferred Share Bonus Plan 2014 the DSBP.
These deferred shares will vest after three years, provided that the executive remains in employment at the end of the three year period.
Clawback malus provisions apply, as described innote 1 on page 71.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance conditions Maximum Performance To incentivise and PSP Awards will be made annually at the discretion The PSP has a grant limit of Share Plan recognise execution of of the Committee, usually following the 200% of salary.
PSP the business strategy announcement of full-year results.
Actual awards may be lower Normally, policy awards will be made to Executive than this, and will comply with Rewards strong Directors and the senior leadership team, based any overall regulation over the financial performance on a mixture of internal financial performance permitted level of variable pay.
targets and relative total shareholder return.
Any vesting will be subject to an underpin, whereby the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the business has operated within the Boards risk appetite framework.
This takes into account capital adequacy, liquidity, credit risk, operational risk and conduct and compliance risk.
The performance targets will be measured over three financial years.
Clawback and malus provisions apply and are structured as for the annual bonus.
All-employee All employees including Tax favoured plan under which regular monthly Maximum permitted savings share Executive Directors are savings may be made over a three or five year based on HMRC limits from time incentive plan encouraged to become period and can be used to fund the exercise of an to time.
Sharesave shareholders through option, where the exercise price is discounted by Plan the operation of an up to 20%.
Provides tax advantages to UK employees, with Executive Directors eligible to participate on a similar basis to other employees.
Share To increase alignment Executives must retain at least 50% of the shares At least 200% of salary for the ownership between executives and acquired on vesting of share awards net of tax Chief Executive Officer and at guidelines shareholders.
until the required holding is attained.
least 150% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer or such higher Executive Directors are level as the Committee may expected to build and determine from time to time.
maintain a minimum holding of shares.
Note: 1 Clawback and malus provisions apply to both the annual bonus and PSP.
These provide for incentive recovery in the event of the discovery of a material misstatement of results, an error in the calculation of bonus outcome, significant failure of risk management, regulatory censure or in instances of individual gross misconduct discovered within five years of the end of the performance period.
A further two years may be applied following such a discovery, in order to allow for the investigation of any such event.
In order to effect any such clawback, the Committee may use a variety of methods, with-hold deferred bonus shares, future PSP awards or cash bonuses, or seek to recoup cash already paid.
A description of how the Company implemented the policy set out in this table in 2015, and how it intends to implement it in 2016, is set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Choice of performance measures for Executive Directors awards The use of a balanced scorecard for the annual bonus reflects the balance of financial and non-financial business drivers across the Company.
The combination of performance measures ties the bonus plan to both the delivery of financial targets and strategic personal objectives.
This ensures there is an appropriate focus on the balance between financial and non-financial targets, with the scorecard composition being set by the Committee from year to year depending on the corporate plan.
The PSP is based on a mixture of financial measures and relative total shareholder return, in line with our key objectives of sustained growth in earnings leading to the creation of shareholder value over the long term.
Total Shareholder Return provides aclose alignment between the relative returns experienced by our shareholders and the rewards to executives.
There is an underpin in place to address risk in the business, taking into account capital adequacy, liquidity, credit risk, operational risk andconduct and compliance risk.
In line with HMRC regulations for such schemes, the SAYE does not operate performance conditions.
72 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Policy report continued How the Remuneration Committee operates the variable pay policy The Committee operates the share plans in accordance with their respective rules, the Listing Rules and HMRC requirements where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of certain plans, including: Who participates in the plans.
When to make awards and payments.
How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and how much of an award should vest.
The testing of a performance condition over a shortened performance period.
How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group.
Whether a participant is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes, what proportion of an award vests at the original vesting date or whether and what proportion of an award may vest at the time of leaving.
How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring or for special dividends.
What the weighting measures and targets should be for the annual bonus plan and PSP from year to year.
The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust existing targets and or set different measures for the annual bonus and for the PSP if events happen that cause it to determine that the targets are no longer appropriate and amendment is required so they can achieve their original intended purpose and provided the new targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the annual report on remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Awards granted prior to the effective date Authority has been given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with Directors that were entered into prior to the effective date of this policy.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Remuneration Policy for other employees The Committee has regard to pay structures across the wider Group when setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and ensures that policies at and below the executive level form a coherent whole.
There are no significant differences in the overall remuneration philosophy, although pay is generally more variable and linked more to the long term for those at more senior levels.
The Committees primary reference point for the salary reviews for the Executive Directors is the average salary increase for the broader workforce.
A highly collegiate approach is followed in the assessment of annual bonus, with our corporate scorecard being used to assess bonus outcomes throughout the organisation, with measures weighted according to role, where relevant.
Overall, the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards performance-related pay than for other employees.
In particular, performance-related long term incentives are not provided outside of the most senior executive population as they are reserved for those considered to have the greatest potential to influence overall levels of performance.
Although PSP is awarded only to the most senior managers in the Group, the Company is committed to widespread equity ownership.
Accordingly, in 2014, our Sharesave Plan offer was launched for all employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in this plan on the same basis as other employees.
Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy The chart below illustrates how the composition of the Executive Directors remuneration packages, as it is intended the policy will be implemented in 2016, would vary under various performance scenarios.
Notes: 000 1 Minimum performance assumes no award 1,500 1,422 is earned under the annual bonus plan and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP thus only fixed pay salary, benefits and pension are payable.
1,200 2 At on-target, half of the annual bonus is earned i. e. 50% of salary and 25% of 979 salary is achieved under the LTIP i. e. 25% 859 of maximum.
900 3 At maximum full vesting is achieved under both plans i. e. 100% of salary.
Share price 592 growth is ignored.
522 600 4 All-employee share plan participation is ignored.
359 300 0 1 2 3 1 2 3 Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum CEO CFO n Salary, benets and pension n Annual bonus n LTIP Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Service contracts The terms and provisions that relate to remuneration in the Executive Director service agreements are set out below: Provision Policy Notice period Twelve months on either side.
Termination payments A payment in lieu of notice may be made on termination to the value of their basic salary at the time of termination.
Such payments may be made in instalments and in such circumstances can be reduced to the extent that the Executive Directors mitigate their loss.
Rights to DSBP and PSP awards on termination are shown below.
The employment of each Executive Director is terminable with immediate effect without notice in certain circumstances, including gross misconduct, fraud or financial dishonesty, bankruptcy or material breach of obligations under their service agreements.
Remuneration Salary, pension and core benefits are specified in the agreements.
There is no contractual right to participate in the annual bonus plan or to receive long term incentive awards.
Post-termination These include six month post termination restrictive covenants against competing with the Company: restrictions nine month restrictive covenants against dealing with clients or suppliers of the Company.
Nine month restrictive covenant against soliciting clients, suppliers and key employees.
Contract date Andy Golding 19 May 2014, April Talintyre 19 May 2014.
Payments for loss of office Annual bonus on termination On termination, executives will be contractually entitled to salary over their notice period.
Payments may be phased and subject to mitigation.
There is no automatic contractual right to bonus payments.
For good leavers, the Remuneration Committee may elect to pay a pro-rata bonus for the period of employment at its discretion and based on full year performance.
PSP on termination Share-based awards normally lapse on termination.
In certain good leaver situations, awards would normally be time pro-rated taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been met if the executive is a good leaver.
In the event that any departure is made from this default treatment of good leavers, the Committees rationale would be set out in the annual report on remuneration.
The Company may also pay reasonable legal costs in respect of any compromise settlement.
In determining good leaver status, best practice would be to stay within definitions of scheme rules i. e. death, ill health, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, or his employing business being sold out of the Group.
However, as is permitted under the rules, the Remuneration Committee will need to retain flexibility for the range of potential different circumstances, taking into account the individuals performance and the reasons for their departure.
Where an executive is determined as a good leaver by the Committee, this discretion and a rationale for the determination will be set out in the remuneration report.
Service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Approach to recruitment and promotions The remuneration package for a new Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved Remuneration Policy and subject to any prevailing limits imposed by the PRA Code.
Currently, this would facilitate annual bonus of 100% of salary and PSP award of up to 200% of salary lower if the regulatory framework prescribes this.
On recruitment, salary policy may but need not necessarily be set below the normal market rate, with phased increases as the executive gains experience.
The rate of salary should be set so as to reflect the individuals experience and skills.
In addition on recruitment, the company may compensate for amounts foregone from a previous employer using cash awards, the Companys share plans or awards under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 as may be required taking into account the quantum foregone: the extent to which performance conditions apply: form of award: and the time left to vesting.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of their prior role should be allowed to pay out broadly according to its terms.
Any other on-going remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For all appointments, the Committee may agree that the company will meet certain appropriate relocation costs.
74 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Policy report continued For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at that time.
External appointments Executive Directors may accept directorships of other quoted and non-quoted companies with the consent of the Board who will consider in particular the time commitment required.
It is also at the discretion of the Board as to whether the Executive Director will be able to retain any fees from such an appointment.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration The Company has a Non-Executive Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors.
Five are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Two of the Non-Executive Directors, Dr David Morgan and Tim Hanford, the JCF Directors are Directors nominated by the major shareholder OSB Holdco Limited in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement, further details of which are given on page 54.
The remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The table summarises the key aspects of the remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees To attract and retain a The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are There is no prescribed maximum high-calibre Chairman entitled to an annual fee, with supplementary fees annual increase.
TheCommittee and Non-Executive payable to the Chair of the Audit, Remuneration, is guided by thegeneral increase Directors by offering Nomination and Risk Committees and for acting in the Non-Executive market a market competitive as the Senior Independent Director.
but onoccasions may need fee level.
to recognise, for example, Fees are reviewed annually.
changein responsibility and ortime commitments.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of travel and other reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties The level of these fees will be reviewed annually by the Board.
Letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors, apart from the JCF Directors are appointed by letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
The key terms are: Provision Policy Period of appointment Initial three year term.
Notice periods Three months on either side.
The appointments are also terminable with immediate effect and without compensation or payment in lieu of notice if the Chairman or Non-Executive Director apart from the JCF Directors is not re-elected to their position as a director of the Company by shareholders.
Payment in lieu of notice The Company is entitled to make a payment in lieu of notice on termination.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
JCF Directors Tim Hanford and Dr David Morgan are nominated by the major shareholder.
Their appointments will terminate in accordance with the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
Under the Relationship Agreement, the major shareholder will receive an annual fee of 60,000 from the Company in respect of each JCF Director that it appoints to the Board, in consideration for the provision of the Directors time and expertise.
Where the Relationship Agreement allows, the fees for each of the JCF Directors may be increased in line with other Non-Executive Director fee increases.
Neither Tim Hanford nor Dr David Morgan receives fees for the provision of their services.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Annual report on remuneration Introduction This section sets out details of the remuneration which the Executive and Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman received in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2015 together with the operation of the Remuneration Committee over the same period.
The annual report on remuneration will, in conjunction with the annual statement of the Remuneration Committee Chairman on page 68, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 11 May 2016.
Where required, data has been audited by KPMG LLP and this is indicated where appropriate.
In preparing this report consideration has been given to the GC100 and Investor Group Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance.
Remuneration Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee held five Committee meetings during the year.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee in the year, and attendance at meetings by individual Committee members, is set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Board considers each of the members of the Committee to be independent in accordance with the Code.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available on the Companys website or on request by shareholders.
In summary, the duties of the Committee include: Setting the Remuneration Policy for all Executive Directors of the Company and the Chairman of the Board, the Company Secretary and all employees that are identified as Code Staff for the purposes of the Prudential Regulation Authoritys Remuneration Code Code Staff and the PRA Code respectively.
Within the terms of the Remuneration Policy and in consultation with the Chairman of the Board and or Chief Executive, as appropriate, determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director and the Chairman and other designated senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments and share option or other share awards.
Approve the design of, and determine targets for, any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve total annual payments made under such schemes.
The Committee will seek input from the Chief Risk Officer to ensure that awards reflect the Companys risk appetite and profile and takes into account current and potential future risks.
Ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
In carrying out its duties the Remuneration Committee takes into account any legal requirements, the PRA Code, UK Corporate Governance Code and UK Listing Rules.
Determining the fees of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Key matters considered by the Remuneration Committee Key issues reviewed and discussed by the Remuneration Committee during the year included: consider and approve the 2015 Directors remuneration report: consider shareholder feedback on remuneration proposals: review and approve 2015 Executive bonus awards: review and approve 2015 Executive salary increases: review and approve salary increases and bonus awards for Code Staff: agree 2015 awards size and targets for grants under the PSP: and consider remuneration policy in light of EBA proposals.
Advisers to the Committee New Bridge Street part of Aon plc served as remuneration consultants to the Committee during the year.
Aon provided advice on all aspects of executive remuneration including development of remuneration policy, guidance on performance metrics and benchmarking exercises.
The total fees paid to New Bridge Street in 2015 were 57,618 New Bridge Street was appointed by the Committee as its adviser in 2014.
Neither New Bridge Street nor Aon plc have any other connection with the Group and therefore the Committee is satisfied that it provides objective and independent advice.
New Bridge Street is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by the voluntary code of conduct of that body, which is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
The Committee also takes input on senior executive remuneration from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Officer and General Manager, Human Resources.
The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary advises the Committee in respect of the UK Corporate Governance Code, share schemes and also acts as secretary to the Committee, ensuring that the Remuneration Committee fulfils its duties under its terms of reference and provides regular updates to the Remuneration Committee on relevant regulatory developments in the UK.
No individual is present in discussions directly relating to their ownpay.
76 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration continued Single total figures of remuneration Executive Directors audited information The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
The remuneration paid in respect of 2014 is for service and performance both pre and post the IPO: Amount Basic Taxable Annual Bonus Vested Executive Directors 000 Year Salary Benefits Pension Bonus Paid Deferred LTIP Total Andy Golding 2015 401 13 52 191 191 0 848 2014 349 12 45 174 174 23 777 April Talintyre 2015 284 9 37 130 130 0 590 2014 252 8 33 120 120 9 543 2015 Salary audited information Early in 2015, the Remuneration Committee carried out a full year review of base salaries for the Executive Directors.
This was the first salary review since our admission to the London Stock Exchange in June 2014.
Our review took into account pay positioning and practice in other public quoted companies of a similar size to OneSavings Bank, both within the financial services sector and within the wider market along with the performance of the Company and the Directors following IPO.
The Committee determined that the base salaries should be increased to 410,000 for the Chief Executive and 290,000 for the Group Finance Director in order to align with market rates within comparable UK listed companies.
As a result, the salaries for the Executive Directors during 2015 were: Salary as at Salary from Total salary 1 January 1 April paid in Executive 2015 2015 2015 Andy Golding 375,000 410,000 401,250 April Talintyre 265,000 290,000 283,750 Executive Directors Pension audited information Executives received pension payments into defined contribution scheme and cash allowance totalling 13% of salary: Contributions paid in 2015 Executive Director 000 Andy Golding 52 April Talintyre 37 Executive Bonus Scheme: 2015 performance against targets audited In 2015 the Executive Directors participated in the Executive Bonus Scheme: their maximum opportunity under the scheme was 75% of salary with the actual payment dependant on company performance versus stretching objectives.
Each Executive Director has a further discretionary bonus opportunity of 25% of salary, with awards linking to individual performance versus appraisal objectives and behaviours demonstrated as per the Companys Behavioural Competency Framework.
The actual performance over the year relative to these targets is shown below: Performance achieved % of bonus earned Measure Weighting Measure Andy Golding April Talintyre Commentary Financial 35% Various measures 34.5 34.5 All financial Key Performance Indicators were set at including Profitability, a stretch level at the start of 2015.
During a year of Growth, Capital Return significant change, performance versus all but one of on Equity and these measures was significantly in excess of target, Cost:Income Ratio hence the bonus awarded for both individuals being close to the maximum available.
For example: Cost:income ratio 2015 target 35% vs actual 26%.
Return on equity 2015 target 25% vs actual 32%.
Underlying profit after tax 2015 target 71m vs actual 84.5m.
Non- 10% Staff: Various 7 7 The Company set a number of stretching targets for financial measures including meeting headcount plans and minimising employee Headcount & Attrition attrition.
Whilst headcount targets were achieved, the UK attrition fell below target: hence the bonus earned not being at the maximum.
15% Customer Service: 15 15 All customer related targets were exceeded, resulting Various measures in bonus earned in this area being at the maximum including Satisfaction, level.
Complaints and Retention Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Executive Bonus Scheme: 2015 performance against targets audited continued Performance achieved % of bonus earned Measure Weighting Measure Andy Golding April Talintyre Commentary 15% Quality: Various 11.5 9 Targets were set on areas including audits, training, measures including regulatory returns, book arrears, IT system up-time Compliance, Credit and operational incidents.
The Company outperformed Risk and Operational on the majority of targets.
April Talintyres bonus earned was less than Andy Goldings, due to the individual weightings applied to the KPIs in this area.
Personal 25% Personal performance 25 24.1 Both individuals achieved very strong Year End subject to year-end Appraisal ratings Andy Golding achieved Outstanding appraisal and April Talintyre achieved Highly Effective.
These ratings take into account their overall performance versus objectives which were set at the beginning of 2015, and achieved in a year of considerable change and growth.
The pay-outs have been calculated in accordance with the pay-out ranges applied to all employees.
Annual 100% 93 89.6 bonus % of salary Notes: The weightings are considered by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure they reflect an appropriate balance of priorities for management.
Where a change of emphasis is considered to be necessary, the weightings will be amended in future years.
This performance resulted in a bonus of 381,300 for the CEO and a payment of 259,950 to the CFO.
50% of the bonus will be paid in cash in April 2016 with the remaining 50% deferred into shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
These shares will be held for a three-year period there are no further performance conditions attached to this award however it is subject to clawback or malus in the circumstances set out in the Policy Report.
If the Executive Director leaves priortovesting any entitlement to the deferred shares is forfeited unless for a good leaver reason such as redundancy, retirement or ill health.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year The table below shows the awards made to executive directors in 2015 under the performance share plans and the performance 1 conditions attached to these awards : Face value Face value of Percentage of awards End of of award award released for achieving performance Performance Executive % of salary threshold targets period conditions 2 Andy Golding 100% 375,000 25% 31-Dec-17 EPS & TSR 2 April Talintyre 100% 265,000 25% 31-Dec-17 EPS & TSR Notes: 1 The number of shares awarded was calculated using a share price of 2.19 the average mid-market quotation for the preceding 5 days before grant.
2 Andy Golding and April Talintyre have no other outstanding LTIP awards.
The performance conditions that applied to the 2015 awards was a combination of Earnings per Share EPS and total shareholder return TSR : an equal weighting applied to both, and they will be assessed independently.
For the EPS element, growth targets were linked to the Companys three year growth plan, measuring growth from the base figure of 2014.
For the TSR element, OneSavings Banks relative performance is measured against the FTSE All Share index excluding Investment Trusts.
The payout schedules for each element are set out below: EPS element TSR element % of that part of the Performance level 50% of total award 50% of total award award vesting Below threshold 12% Below median 0% Threshold 12% Median 25% Stretch 18% Upper quartile 100% Pro-rata vesting in between the above points Once the provisional out-turn has been calculated, the Remuneration Committee will review the operation of the business against the Boards risk appetite framework, taking into account, capital, liquidity, credit, operational and conduct and compliance risk and may exercise its discretion to reduce the awards, potentially to zero, in the event of a breach of this riskappetite.
78 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration continued Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The table below sets out the percentage change in base salary, value of taxable benefits and bonus for the CEO compared with the average percentage change for employees.
For these purposes UK employees who have been employed for over a year and therefore eligible for a salary increase have been used as a comparator group as they are the analogous population based on service and location.
In 2015, this group formed the majority of OneSavings Banks employees.
The benefit offering for this group remained the same in 2015 with costs per employee flat as the Group negotiated a two-year deal on private medical cover in2013.
Average Percentage Change 20142015 Taxable Salary Benefits Annual Bonus Chief Executive Officer 14.9% 8% 9.8% UK Employees 6.99% 0% 32.6% Comparison of Company performance and CEO remuneration The following table summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration and annual bonus pay-out as a percentage of maximum opportunity in 2013 to 2015.
2013 2014 2015 Chief Executive Officer Andy Golding Andy Golding Andy Golding Annual bonus as a % of maximum opportunity 92.5% 92.63% 93.00% CEO single figure of remuneration 000 518 777 848 Total shareholder return The graph below shows the Total shareholder return performance of the Company over the period from Listing to 31 December 2015 to the performance of the FTSE All Share Index.
This index is considered to be the most appropriate index against which to measure performance as the Company is a member of this index.
As OneSavings Bank has only been listed for a short period 1.5 years the entire historical performance to date as well as the statutory requirement to show movement in performance between listing and financial year ends has been shown.
250 200 150 100 50 5 June 2014 31 December 2015 This graph shows the value, at 31 December 2015, of 100 invested in OneSavings Bank plc on 5 June 2014 being the date that shares were first admitted to trading compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All Share Index.
OneSavings Bank plc OneSavings Bank plc daily return FTSE All Share Index Total shareholder return Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters Total Shareholder Return rebased Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Relative importance of the spend on pay The chart below shows the Companys total employee remuneration including the Directors compared to distributions to shareholders and operating profit before tax for the year under review and the prior year.
In order to provide context for these figures, underlying operating profit as a key financial metric used for remuneration purposes has been shown.
2014 2015 Total employee costs 18.7m 21.7m Distributions to shareholders 9.5m 21.1m Underlying Profit Before Tax 69.7m 105.9m Total Employee Costs vs PBT 26.80% 20.50% Average Headcount 419 544 Average PBT Per Employee 166,348 194,669 Notes: 2014 distributions to shareholders have been updated from the number shown in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration nil following the approval of the final dividend by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Statement of voting at general meeting At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, shareholders were asked to vote on the following remuneration items: To approve the Remuneration Implementation Report To approve the Remuneration Policy: and To approve the variation of the remuneration ratio.
Each of these resolutions received a significant vote in favour by shareholders: the Committee is grateful for this support and endorsement by our shareholders.
The votes received were: % of Votes % of Total Votes Resolution Votes for votes cast against votes cast votes cast withheld To approve the Remuneration Implementation Report 222,724,283 99.89 243,594 0.11 222,967,877 492 To approve the Remuneration Policy 216,736,072 97.21 6,231,805 2.79 222,967,877 492 To approve the variation of the remuneration ratio 216,979,666 97.31 5,988,211 2.69 222,967,877 492 Implementation of Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors for 2016 Salary Salary reviews are normally carried out in Q1 every year and take effect from 1 April in that year.
In spring 2016, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the base salaries of the Executive Directors.
This review took into account the salary increase budgets for other employees, the performance and experience of the Directors and of OneSavings Bank together with the relative pay levels and practice in other public quoted companies of a similar size both within the financial services sector and within the wider market.
As a result of the continued growth of the Company, both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer salaries remained below competitive external levels.
The Committee considered that in light of this positioning combined with strong corporate and individual performance, adjustments should be made to bring them closer to market levels.
Accordingly, the Committee determined that the base salary for the Chief Executive Officer will be increased by 9.8% and the base salary for the Chief Financial Officer increased by 6.9%.
As a result, the salaries for the Executive Directors during 2016 are: Salary from 01 April 2016 Executive Director Andy Golding 450,000 April Talintyre 310,000 Benefits These will remain as a car allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance for the Executive Directors.
Pension The current pension arrangements described above will remain in place for the forthcoming financial year.
Annual bonus & Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP The operation of the bonus plan for 2016 will be consistent with the framework detailed in the policy section of this report.
The maximum opportunity for the year ending 31 December 2016 will be 100% of salary for all Executive Directors.
75% of the awards will be based on corporate performance split between Company financial performance 35% of the total bonus and non-financial performance 40% of the total bonus.
The remaining 25% of the awards will be determined based on the executives personal performance.
Half of any bonus payment will be subject to 50% of payment made in shares under the DSBP, and clawback malus provisions apply as detailed in the policy report.
Proposed target levels have been set to be challenging relative to the 2016 business plan.
Specific targets are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, the Committee intends to disclose these retrospectively in next years remuneration report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive.
80 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration continued Performance Share Plan PSP Awards under the PSP will be made in March 2016.
Awards for the Executive Directors will be 100% of salary.
The performance conditions that will apply to the 2016 awards continue to be Earnings per Share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
For the EPS element, growth targets are set with reference to the Companys three year business plan and external expectations of our performance.
The target range continues to be set at a level well above most listed companies.
However, the range is reduced from that set in 2015, since our plans and external estimates both reflect the impact of the Bank Corporation tax surcharge which is effective from 1 January 2016.
For the TSR element, the 2016 award will measure OneSavings Banks relative performance against the FTSE 250, given that the Company is now part of this index.
The pay-out schedules for each element are set out below: EPS element TSR element % of that part Performance level 50% of total award 50% of total award of the award vesting Below threshold 8% Below median 0% Threshold 8% Median 25% Stretch 15% Upper quartile 100% Pro-rata vesting in between the above points All employee share plans In 2015 OneSavings Bank made a second annual award under the SAYE scheme allowing all eligible employees to save a portion of their monthly salary with the option to use these savings to purchase shares at a pre-agreed price at the end of the exercise period.
For the 2015 grant, the maximum amount an employee could save across all plans was 500 per month and the exercise period was set at three years.
The exercise price was discounted by 20% from the share price on award.
External Board appointments Andy Golding is a Director trustee of Building Societies Trust Limited but receives no remuneration for this position.
Payments to departing Directors During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past Directors: neither has it made any payments to Directors for loss of office.
Implementation of Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Single total figures of remuneration Chairman and Non-Executive Directors audited information The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by the Chairman and each Non-Executive Director the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014.
Total fees 000 2014 2015 Chairman Mike Fairey 193 150 Non-Executive Directors Graham Allatt 44 70 1 Eric Anstee 2 Rod Duke 68 80 Tim Hanford 53 60 Malcolm McCaig 61 60 Mary McNamara 47 70 Dr David Morgan 53 60 Nathan Moss 40 60 Stephan Wilcke 258 60 Total 817 672 1 Eric Anstee joined the Board on 21 December 2015.
Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in any of the Companys share schemes and are not eligible to join a Company pension scheme.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees The annual fees for serving as a Non-Executive Director were reviewed and agreed by the Board prior to listing.
The fee levels that apply from listing to date are set out below.
Base fees 000 2014 2015 Chairman 150 150 Non-Executive Director 60 60 Additional fees Senior Independent Director 10 10 Audit Committee Chair 10 10 Remuneration Committee Chair 10 10 Nomination Committee Chair 10 10 Risk Committee Chair 10 10 Strategic report Governance Financial statements OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 The Chairmans fee will be increased to 165,000 in 2016.
This reflects the continued contribution and time commitment made by the incumbent to the role and brings the fee closer to the market level versus similar sized companies within the sector.
Other Non-Executive Director fees will remain unchanged.
Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information Total shares owned by executives: Interests Interests in share in share incentive incentive schemes schemes awarded awarded subject to without performance Shareholding Current Total interest Shares performance conditions requirement shareholding in shares at owned at conditions at as at % of basic % of basic 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 31-Dec-15 salary salary Andy Golding 2,250,540 2,000,000 79,307 171,233 200% 1,942% April Talintyre 962,042 779,415 61,622 121,005 150% 1,173% Notes: 1 Includes share in OSB Holdco Ltd. 2 Based on the closing share price on 31 December 2015 3.537.
3 There were no changes to directors interests in the Companys shares during the period 31 December 2015 and 16 March 2016.
This includes the following options under the SAYE: Exercise period Number of options Granted Market price exercised Exercise price 31-Dec-15 Beginning of forfeited End of Executive Date of grant Beginning End period lapsed period April Talintyre 2014 1.34 3.357 18-Jul-17 18-Jan-18 6,716 6,716 Share ownership guidelines The Remuneration Committee has approved share ownership guidelines which require the Chief Executive Officer to accumulate and maintain a holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent to no less than 200% of salary and the Chief Financial Officer 150% of salary.
50% of any vested share awards must be retained until the guideline is achieved.
Non-Executive Directors shareholdings audited information Shareholding as Non-Executive Director at 31-Dec-15 Graham Allatt 0 Eric Anstee 0 Rod Duke 94,537 Mike Fairey 30,000 Tim Hanford 0 Malcolm McCaig 111,805 Mary McNamara 0 Dr David Morgan 0 Nathan Moss 0 Stephan Wilcke 300,000 The following information was disclosed in the IPO Prospectus at the time of listing.
The Chairman received an award of 30,000 ordinary shares for his services in preparing the Company for Listing.
He is required to hold these shares while he remains as a Director of the Company, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Stephan Wilcke is required to accumulate and maintain a holding of shares in the Company equivalent to no less than two times his Non-Executive Director fees.
Rod Duke and Malcolm McCaig received an award of 106,481 and 159,722 ordinary shares respectively as nil price options the IPO Awards which vested immediately on listing.
They were able to dispose of up to 30% by value of the ordinary shares in which they were indirectly interested following the vesting of their IPO awards.
There are no other share ownership guidelines for Non-Executive Directors.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, on 16 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Mary McNamara Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 March 2016
