68 OneSavings Bank plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder The first awards were granted under the Performance Share Plan I am pleased to present the PSP Committees report for 2015.
In 2015 the first awards were granted under the PSP.
These awards will only As set out in the Chairmans statement vest if challenging performance at the beginning of this report, conditions are met the Group must OneSavings Bank has had an excellent achieve EPS growth of 18% per annum year with strong performance against and upper quartile growth in Total all of our key measures.
shareholder return TSR over the performance period for the awards to At the beginning of the year the vest in full.
The Committee must also be Committee set stretching but realistic satisfied that the Group has adhered to targets for the Executive Bonus Scheme the Boards risk appetite framework, using our balanced scorecard approach taking into account, capital, liquidity, the measures chosen are metrics that credit, operational and conduct & the Committee believe reflect the compliance risk over the performance holistic performance of the Group.
Further awards will be made Non-financial measures represent 65% under this Plan in 2016. of the total bonus targets demonstrating our commitment to OSB received high support for its growing the Group in a sustainable, remuneration arrangements at prudent way and encouraging a focus the 2015 Annual General Meeting on long-term success.
This includes June 2015 was also the first Annual staff, customer and quality objectives, General Meeting for OneSavings Bank as measures we believe are lead a listed company.
At this meeting our indicators of the future performance of remuneration policy, annual report on OneSavings Bank.
remuneration and a resolution to increase the cap on variable pay to two Performance against both the financial times fixed pay were submitted to and non-financial performance shareholders.
I was delighted with the measures has been strong resulting in support from shareholder for our bonus payments of 93% and 89.6% of arrangements with votes for the maximum for the CEO and CFO proposals of 97.21%, 99.89% and 97.31% respectively.
50% of this award will be respectively.
We continue to have an deferred into shares under the Deferred open dialogue with shareholders and to Share Bonus Plan.
These shares will be consult with them prior to making major held for a three-year period and are changes to remuneration structures or subject to strict clawback and malus quantum.
Changes to structures as a result of Financial Services regulation The Committee stays up to date with developments in financial services regulation and market trends and is cognisant of the current discussions on proportionality taking place in Europe.
The Committee will continue to monitor developments in this sector and will make any changes necessary to comply with the regulations.
This may mean that we will need to present a revised Remuneration Policy to shareholders in 2017 to reflect the final requirements.
Mary McNamara Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 March 2016
