1 APPLICATION OF POLICY The information provided in this part of the Directors' Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Consideration by directors of matters relating to directors remuneration Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee consisted of Alan Fletcher who chaired the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Peter Hartill, Edward Tilly, until his retirement on 1 July 2015, and Hugo Tudor, from his appointment on 24 November 2014, all of whom were independent non-executive directors, and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
The Board introduced a conflicts policy in 2015 which takes into account the requirements of the UK Code on Corporate Governance in recognising and managing conflicts at remuneration committees.
None of the non-executive directors who sit on the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder or debt holder, conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Chairman of the Company does not participate in discussions on his own remuneration.
The Committee determines the Companys policy on executive remuneration and specific compensation packages for each of the executive directors and the Chairman.
No director contributes to any discussion about his own remuneration.
The Committee also reviews the level and structure of remuneration of senior management.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary.
In determining the directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted Mr N S Terrington Chief Executive and the Groups Director of Human Resources about its proposals.
Remuneration advisers The Committee retained the services of New Bridge Street NBS, a brand of Aon Hewitt Limited, as its independent advisor on remuneration matters throughout the year.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct.
NBS also advised the Company on various sundry remuneration matters during the year, which did not conflict with its advice to the Committee.
In evaluating the independence of NBS the Committee considered the following: other services provided to the Company and the fees paid by it to the advisors wider group, Aon Hewitt fees paid to NBS as a percentage of its wider groups total revenues in the year the policy of NBS to prevent conflicts of interest whether there were any relationships between NBS and any member of the Committee whether there were any shares in the Company owned by NBS or its wider group any business or personal relationships between NBS or its wider group and any senior executive of the Company Aon Hewitt provided administration services to the Corporate Trustee of the Groups retirement benefits plan during the year but given the independence of the Trustee this was not considered to be advice to the Board.
Aon Hewitt also acted as the administrators of the Groups stakeholder defined contribution pension plan during the year.
It provided no advice to the Board in this capacity.
NBS has written to the Committee Chairman to confirm its position on these matters.
Its total fees including VAT for the year ended 30 September 2015 were 59,000 2014: 73,000, which were charged on the basis of the work carried out by it.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 83 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
