B5.1 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEEE The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Dear Shareholder The philosophy underpinning the Groups remuneration policy seeks to produce an outcome which is fair and appropriate to the Company, its shareholders, senior executives and employees.
Company performance is central, with the focus being on short and long term qualitative and quantitative objectives with an emphasis on strong risk management.
The Group has made excellent progress against the objectives set at the beginning of the financial year: underlying operating profit has increased by 10.2% to 134.7 million, 1,326.6 million of first mortgage and 59.1 million of consumer loans were advanced, whilst maintaining high credit standards, 104.4 million was invested in loan portfolios, three public securitisations were completed, warehouse funding facilities were increased and extended, savings deposits increased to 708.7 million and a third retail bond issue was launched.
After the year end, on 2 October 2015, the Group announced that its subsidiary, Paragon Bank, had agreed to acquire the entire share capital of Five Arrows Leasing Group, an acquisition which broadens the Groups activities and is expected to be immediately enhancing to earnings and return on equity.
The Committee has reflected the positive performance in the year in applying the remuneration policy.
Performance bonuses of 100% of maximum for Mr N S Terrington and Mr R J Woodman and 75% of maximum for Mr J A Heron have been awarded.
In reaching this decision, the Committee has reviewed performance against a number of financial and risk based targets, taking into account individual performance in particular for Mr Terrington and Mr Woodman the exceptional development of future profit streams, the further development of the Groups operational and financial model, and delivery against longer term strategic goals.
The objectives are detailed in section B5.2.
Long term incentives LTIs which were granted in December 2011 matured in December 2014.
These awards were subject to a Total Shareholder Return TSR performance condition, measured against the FTSE-250 Index over the three year period from the date of grant.
The Companys performance over the period ranked in the upper quartile and it was the judgement of the Committee that these rewards to executives were a fair reflection of performance over the period, and therefore the awards vested in full.
During the year the Committee considered various aspects of its policy on executive director remuneration.
In particular the use of Earnings Per Share EPS performance conditions in the Groups LTIs and the levels at which these are set are kept under annual review.
Following this years review and taking into consideration feedback received from major shareholders, it was decided that the EPS targets for the grant to be made in the financial year ending 30 September 2016, which will constitute the performance test for 50% of the award, should be determined following the publication of the Groups preliminary announcement.
The Committee will then set performance targets which are appropriately stretching given business plan expectations, consensus and the challenges to achievement.
The Committee conducted a review of the Chairmans compensation during the year in the light of the considerable changes in the Groups operations since the last benchmarked review in 2008.
In the light of this review the Chairmans fee was increased to 240,000 with effect from 1 October 2015.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC PAGE 81 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Corporate Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The other key decisions made by the Committee during the year are as follows: Salaries for the year ending 30 September 2016 have been increased by 2.25%, in line with the general level of increases to other employees Awards of performance shares with a market value of 200% of salary, vesting of half of which is subject to a relative TSR performance condition measured against the constituents of the FTSE-250 Index and vesting of half of which is subject to an EPS performance related target, will be awarded in the financial year ending 30 September 2016 Deloitte are to be appointed as remuneration advisers in place of New Bridge Street NBS with effect from the conclusion of the 2016 AGM The Committee concluded that no other changes were required in the application of the remuneration policy, including other performance metrics used for awards of LTIs, and that the overall remuneration policy remained appropriate.
Therefore there have been no changes to remuneration policy during the year and none are currently proposed.
Together with the Group Chairman, and accompanied by the Company Secretary and the Groups Director of Human Resources, I consulted with major shareholders and shareholder advisory bodies prior to the Committees finalisation of the decisions above and received broad support.
During the year ended 30 September 2015 the Committee has undertaken a review of the new requirements in respect of executive remuneration introduced in the revised version of the UK Code on Corporate Governance applicable to financial years commencing on or after 1 October 2014.
No significant changes resulting from this review were required to executive remuneration or the related incentive plans.
Clawback and malus have been in operation within the Companys discretionary share plans for a number of years and will be introduced for cash bonuses with effect from those paid in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2016.
The Committee determined that given the current levels of executive director shareholdings, which are significantly in excess of that required by the Companys share ownership policy, and the long service of the management team, it would be inappropriate at this point to require directors to hold their shares for an additional period after the vesting of an LTI grant.
This will be kept under review annually.
The Groups present remuneration policies were approved at the AGM in 2014 and as it is required to submit its remuneration policies to shareholders for approval every three years, a vote on policy will be required at the 2017 AGM.
In view of the significant changes the Group has undergone since the present policy was drafted, the Committee intends to take this opportunity to undertake a thorough review of the way the Group rewards executive directors and senior employees, covering all aspects of the packages offered, including bonus arrangements, share based rewards and post-retirement provision.
This review will consider the growth, diversification and increased complexity of the Group, the challenges this presents, the changes in its exposure to regulation and developments over recent years in shareholder expectations, governance rules, regulatory requirements and developing best practice.
It will also take account of potential new requirements, including those which might arise from the European Banking Authoritys consultation on remuneration policies.
The Committee intends to complete this review during the financial year ending 30 September 2016 and will be seeking input from major shareholders, investor groups and external consultants.
We will report on the results of this review in next years Directors Remuneration Report and shareholders will be asked to approve the revised policy at the 2017 AGM, with the intention that the new policy will remain in place until 2020 unless the Groups circumstances change significantly.
The most important challenge for the Committee will be to continue to ensure that the remuneration policy remains appropriately structured to retain and motivate executive directors, whilst providing alignment with shareholders and, most importantly, directly linking to the achievement of the Companys strategy.
I commend this report to shareholders and ask you to support the resolution to approve the Companys Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Policy report for the year ended 30 September 2015 at the AGM in 2016.
Alan K Fletcher Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 November 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
