Group Chief Executives report Delivering long-term value to customers and shareholders premium focus underpins our earnings I am pleased to report a strong growth in the region and is key to the performance in 2015. resilience of our financial performance Our strategy continues to serve across the cycle.
us well, focusing on the three US life IFRS operating profit of long-term opportunities across 1,691 million was up 10 per cent, driven by growth in fee income earned our geographic markets on separate account assets that have i serving the protection continued to benefit from robust net and investment needs of the inflows.
growing middle class in Asia: UK life IFRS operating profit of ii providing asset accumulation 4 1,167 million grew by 60 per cent, and retirement income products and included 339 million arising in to US baby boomers and the second half of 2015 from specific iii meeting the savings and management actions taken to position the balance sheet more efficiently retirement needs of an ageing under the new Solvency II regime.
M&G delivered operating profit of The strength of the Groups execution The strength of the Groups 442 million, broadly in line with 2014. capabilities, combined with our leading execution capabilities, combined Funds under management including market positions, growing in-force book with our leading market positions, internal funds were 7 per cent lower at and excellent diversification by geography, growing in-force book and 246.1 billion, reflecting retail outflows currency, product and distribution enable excellent diversification enable during 2015. us to create value for our customers while us to create value for our generating sustainable earnings and cash The Group is focused on delivering strong customers while generating for our shareholders.
cash generation, which underpins both our sustainable earnings and cash strategic and financial flexibility.
Group performance 3 free surplus generation, a key indicator of cash generation from our life and asset We continue to comment on our Mike Wells management businesses, was 15 per cent Group Chief Executive international business performance in local higher at 3,050 million after reinvestment currency terms expressed on a constant in new business.
In total, our businesses exchange rate basis to show the underlying remitted cash to the corporate centre of business trends in a period of currency 1,625 million, up 10 per cent on an actual volatility.
We have used this basis in exchange rate basis.
Cash remittances of discussions below for our Asian and US 467 million from Asia were 17 per cent businesses to maintain comparability.
higher while those from the US increased Our Group IFRS operating profit based on by 13 per cent to 470 million, both on longer-term investment returns increased an actual exchange rate basis.
In the UK, by 22 per cent in 2015 to 4,007 million.
On our life operation remitted 331 million an actual exchange rate basis, the Groups in line with last year and M&G delivered IFRS operating profit grew by 26 per cent.
a 6 per cent increase in remittances to 302 million.
Asia life and asset management operating profit of 1,324 million grew 4 New business profit was up 20 per cent by 17 per cent, reflecting the growing to 2,617 million, primarily reflecting recurring income from our life in-force higher overall volumes in Asia and the UK.
2 book up 14 per cent to 7.2 billion and All three of our life businesses contributed higher assets under management in significantly to the total, with 1,490 million Eastspring Investments.
The recurring up 28 per cent of new business profit from 04 Prudential plc Annual Report 2015 www.
