STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONSIDERATION OF RISK This section of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Banks A core principle for the design of Shawbrooks Remuneration Policy has Remuneration Policy, prepared in accordance with the amended Large and been to ensure that risk management is at its core.
Key features of the Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Remuneration Policy which incorporate risk management include: Regulations 2008.
An appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration, in line with the Banks strategy and risk appetite levels.
This Remuneration Policy will be submitted to shareholders in a binding An appropriate balance between short-term and long-term vote at the 2016 AGM, from which date it will take effect.
It is intended that performance measures, and significant time horizons applying to the Remuneration Policy applies for three years following approval, subject incentive plans due to bonus deferral and Performance Share Plan PSP to any changes that would require re-approval.
A significant proportion of variable remuneration being paid in equity REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES at senior levels within the Bank.
Through the Remuneration Policy, Shawbrook seeks to reward employees A wide range of performance measures, which take into account the for their contribution, and motivate them to deliver the best outcomes for Banks short-term and long-term strategy, as well as key risk stakeholders.
This Policy is underpinned by the Banks over-riding considerations.
remuneration principles: The use of a bonus underpin, ensuring that bonus payouts are only 1.
Remuneration will be determined within the Banks stated risk appetite, permitted if the Banks overall performance is satisfactory, including defined as maintaining a balanced strategy to reward our employees underlying financial performance, sustainability, customer, risk for appropriate conduct and performance.
Safeguarding the right management and regulatory capital ratio as part of a formal risk outcomes for customers is at the heart of this.
adjustment process at year end.
The remuneration structures will be developed in alignment with the The inclusion of malus and clawback provisions on all incentive plans, appropriate regulatory environment.
and annual consideration of any events as part of the risk adjustment 3.
There will be an appropriate mix of long-term and short-term incentive process.
arrangements in place which will assist in driving the long term security, soundness and success of the Bank.
The long-term and short-term incentive plans will be subject to As a newly listed Company, we have had limited opportunity to engage appropriate performance measures, ensuring the right balance with shareholders on remuneration to date.
However, during early 2016, we between these elements of the reward package.
approached our major shareholders to gain their views on, and help shape, 5.
Pay outcomes will be determined with reference to total reward our Remuneration Policy.
principles, e. g. when making bonus decisions we will take into account total aggregate remuneration with reference to the external market.
It is the Committees intention that shareholder approval of the 6.
Base pay decisions will primarily be determined by the size and scope Remuneration Policy will be sought every three years.
The Committee will of the role, as well as any market adjustments, including cost of living actively seek dialogue with the Banks major shareholders when wage movement or movement in the market for key roles or skills.
appropriate, and any feedback received will be considered during the External pay data, when available, will provide the basis for decisions.
Committees annual review of the Policy.
The Committee will also take into 7.
Variable pay decisions will be determined by the overall business consideration AGM voting outcomes where appropriate.
The Committee performance, as well as individual performance evaluation measured will also consult with shareholders when any significant changes to the against agreed performance objectives, the culture of the Bank, and Policy are proposed.
The Chief Risk Officer CRO will have appropriate input into the setting CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYEE VIEWS AND of remuneration policies for the Bank and will be consulted by RemCo  in relation to senior management awards.
In determining the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, the 9.
Remuneration policies will be communicated in a clear and transparent Committee takes into consideration the pay and employment conditions way for all colleagues, and in a timely way.
of the wider employee Group.
In particular, when determining Executive 10.
Annual pay and bonus decisions will reflect: Director salary increases, the Committee will consider the salary increases Contribution to Group results: being awarded to the wider employee Group.
Alignment with the Groups values: Appropriate risk behaviour: and The Bank does not perform a formal consultation process on the Transparency.
remuneration of Executive Directors with other employees.
However, the Company has introduced arrangements to facilitate all employees The Banks approach to remuneration outcomes ensures that employees acquiring shares in the Company and employees will therefore be able to are rewarded fairly, encourages a culture where customers are at the core, vote on the Executive Directors remuneration in the same way as other whilst protecting shareholder interests and continuing to drive the Banks shareholders.
There is no employee representative on the Committee.
Instead, the views In applying the remuneration principles, we have made the decision to of employees are taken into account by HR.
One of the duties of the HR voluntarily implement the CRD IV cap on variable remuneration.
As a result, Director is to brief the Board on employee views and, as a regular invitee to the variable remuneration awards made to Executive Directors will not Remuneration Committee meetings, the HR Director ensures that decisions exceed 200% of fixed pay.
are made with appropriate insight to colleagues views.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The remuneration for Executive Directors and the wider employee Group In addition, an additional one-off IPO share award was granted to follow a common set of remuneration principles, as shown on page 67, employees under the Shawbrook Bank Incentive Plan 2015 to allow them to which are embodied in the Companys remuneration policy.
Particular share in the success of the Company on Admission: points of note are: Those employees who joined the Bank after 1 January 2014 received a All employees are eligible to receive an element of variable pay in the gross award of 1,500: form of a discretionary bonus, and PSP for some key individuals : Those who joined between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 Share ownership is encouraged through the Companys Save As You received a gross award of 2,000: and Earn SAYE scheme.
Key individuals also participate in the PSP: and Those who joined before 1 January 2013 received a gross award All employees receive Company benefits, including life assurance, of 2,500. private medical insurance and eligibility for a Group personal pension plan.
Where an employee does not take up the Group personal pension The IPO Awards vested on Admission.
Each participant received ordinary plan, they are automatically auto-enrolled into the Groups stakeholder shares in full or partial satisfaction of the IPO Award, with any balancing pension plan, unless they choose to opt out.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR DIRECTORS The policy table below summarises the key components of the Remuneration Policy that will be applied when setting the remuneration packages for Executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Opportunity Salary To recruit, motivate and retain Salaries are normally reviewed annually, with any changes There is no maximum salary or fixed Executive Directors of the required typically taking effect from 1 March.
pay allowance level or increase calibre.
that may be given in any year, but Salaries are reviewed taking into consideration a number of any increases will normally not Reflect the individuals experience, factors, including: exceed those awarded to the wider performance and responsibility.
Size and scope of the role: employee population.
Skills and experience of the individual: Performance of the Bank and the individual: Salary increases for the wider employee population: and Pay levels for similar roles at companies of a similar size and complexity.
Salary levels may also be adjusted to take account of any significant regulatory changes.
This is not expected during the life of this policy.
Pension To provide a competitive postExecutive Directors may participate in the Banks Group Personal Up to 35% of salary for the CEO and retirement benefit in order to retain Pension Plan.
Where an employee does not take up the Group 15% for other Executive Directors in Executive Directors of the required personal pension plan, they are automatically auto-enrolled respect of any financial year.
into the Groups stakeholder pension plan, unless they choose to opt out.
Actual pension levels for the year under review are listed in the table Executive Directors may receive a cash allowance in lieu of a in the Annual Remuneration Report pension contribution.
Contribution levels depend on individual circumstances.
Benefits To provide a competitive and Executive Directors receive a range of benefits, including private There is no maximum value of appropriate benefits package health cover for the Director and his immediate family, life benefits, as the cost of benefits may in order to motivate and retain insurance, discounted gym membership and permanent health vary in accordance with market Executive Directors of the required insurance.
Additional benefits may be provided as reasonably required, for example relocation benefits.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in any HMRC approved all-employee share plans operated by the Bank on the same basis as other employees.
The Bank currently operates a SAYE plan and may also provide benefits under a SIP in the future.
68 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Opportunity Annual Bonus To incentivise and reward the Annual bonuses are based on Bank and individual performance The normal maximum bonus achievement of short-term financial over one year.
At least 50% of the bonus will be based on opportunity in respect of any and non-financial objectives which financial performance, with the remainder based on strategic financial year is 100% of salary: are closely linked to the Banks non-financial and personal objectives.
however the Committee may make strategy.
awards of up to 100% of fixed pay.
The measures, and their applicable weightings and targets, are Deferral into shares reinforces set at the beginning of each year.
retention and enhances alignment with shareholders by encouraging 0% of maximum will pay out for threshold performance.
longer-term focus and risk alignment.
Details of the performance targets set will be provided in the Annual Remuneration Report when deemed no longer commercially sensitive.
The award level is determined by the Committee based on actual performance against the targets set.
However, the Committee has discretion to reduce the formulaic outcome including to zero where the outcome is not reflective of the overall performance of the Bank, or as a result of the risk adjustment process.
50% of any bonus paid will be deferred into awards under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP.
The awards will normally be released in three equal tranches after one, two and three years, subject to continued employment.
Deferral levels and any deferral holding periods may be amended to take account of any regulatory changes during the life of the Policy or such other factors the Committee considers appropriate.
Annual bonus awards are subject to the Banks malus and clawback provisions, set out on page 70.
Performance Share Plan To incentivise and reward the PSP awards will normally be made annually, based on a The normal maximum PSP PSP delivery of the Groups long-term combination of total shareholder return TSR, internal financial opportunity in respect of any strategy and growth in shareholder measures and key strategic non-financial measures.
At least 50% financial year is 100% of salary.
value over a sustained period of time.
of a PSP award will be subject to TSR and or financial measures.
The PSP rules allow for awards of Performance measures will normally be tested over a period of up to 300% of salary to be made in three years or such other period as the Committee determines exceptional circumstances.
However, any PSP award will comply with the otherwise.
Typically, 25% of maximum will pay out for threshold performance.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the 2:1 variable remuneration cap.
formulaic outcome including to zero where the outcome is not reflective of the overall performance of the Bank or as a result of the risk adjustment process.
Personal performance in the year prior to award may also be taken into account when determining award levels.
Any awards that vest, net of tax and NIC liabilities, are subject to a further holding period.
There will be a minimum five year period between grant and sale.
Performance, vesting and holding periods may be amended to take account of any regulatory changes during the life of the Policy.
PSP awards are subject to the Groups malus and clawback provisions, set out on page 70.
Shareholding guidelines To align the interests of Executive Executive Directors are expected to build and maintain a At least 200% of salary.
minimum shareholding in the Company within five years of the later of recruitment or the Banks listing.
Executives must retain at least 50% of shares acquired on vesting of PSP awards net of tax until the guideline is met.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE MEASURES FOR VARIABLE REMUNERATION PAYMENTS IN RELATION TO LEGACY AWARDS The Committee considers that the balance of performance measures, Any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office not in line which includes financial, strategic, and personal objectives, means that with the Remuneration Policy detailed out above may nevertheless be remuneration is aligned to shareholders and regulatory requirements.
satisfied where i the terms of the payment or award were agreed before the Policy came into effect, as set out in the Listing Prospectus where Financial and strategic measures have been chosen as the Committee relevant such payments or awards will be set out in the Annual considers that these will incentivise the Executive Directors to deliver Remuneration Report for the relevant year, and ii the individual was not a strong financial performance which results in value creation for Director of the Company at the time and in the Committees opinion was shareholders.
not in consideration for becoming a Director of the Company.
The Committee also understands that executives should be incentivised to MALUS AND CLAWBACK display the appropriate risk and conduct behaviours, and therefore To ensure compliance with the applicable regulatory requirements, and as performance measures are likely to include specific measures which are a method for sound risk management, all variable remuneration is subject directly linked to executives individual performance in these areas.
to malus and clawback provisions.
The specific terms are set out in the incentive plan rules as well as the Executive Directors service contracts.
The Committee will review the specific performance measures annually to ensure that executives are appropriately incentivised to deliver the Malus and clawback may be implemented in exceptional circumstances, Companys strategic priorities.
on such basis that the Committee in its discretion considers to be fair, reasonable and proportionate.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may vary any performance condition applicable to a PSP award in accordance with its terms if Under the malus provisions, exceptional circumstances may include, but anything happens which causes the Committee to consider it appropriate, are not limited, to reputational damage, failure of risk management or poor provided that it considers the amended condition to be fair, reasonable underlying performance.
Malus adjustments may include: and not materially less challenging but for the event in question.
Prior to the earlier of the normal vesting date of DSBP awards and the third anniversary of the date of grant, reducing the number of shares TERMS OF SHARE AWARDS under the DSBP including to nil : and Share-based awards granted under the DSBP and the PSP: Prior to the normal vesting date of PSP awards, reducing the amount of a may be made in the form of nil-cost options, conditional share awards any PSP awards including to nil.
or forfeitable shares: b may incorporate the right, subject to any regulatory requirements to Under the clawback provisions, exceptional circumstances may include, the contrary, to receive the value of dividends which would have been but are not limited, to a material misstatement in the published results of payable on the shares that vest under an award since the date of grant the Bank for the period to which the award related, an error in calculating of the award.
This amount may be paid in cash or shares and may the incentive payment, or misconduct of the individual.
Clawback assume the dividends had been reinvested in shares on a cumulative adjustments may include: basis: Reducing an individuals cash bonus outcome for the current year c may be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and including to nil : d may be adjusted in the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, Requiring a cash repayment in respect of any shares delivered under special dividend or other transaction that will materially affect the value the DSBP and or PSP: of the Companys shares in the Committees opinion.
Reducing any other outstanding share awards the individual holds: and The individual returning some or all of the shares acquired under his award to the Company.
DSBP awards may be clawed back within three years of grant and PSP awards within three years of the normal vesting date of the relevant award.
70 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES The policy table below summarises the key components of the Remuneration Policy that will be applied when setting the remuneration packages for Non-Executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measures Opportunity Non-Executive Directors To recruit and retain Non-Executive The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are entitled to There is no maximum fee increase fees Directors of the required calibre.
an annual fee, with additional fees payable to the Senior that may be given in any year, Independent Director, the Chairman and members of the but any increases will take into Reflect the time commitment Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees and any Committee consideration increases awarded to required and scope of responsibility.
formed following the approval of the policy.
Additional fees are Executive Directors and the wider also payable to the members of the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman does not receive any additional fee for his membership of the Remuneration Committee nor for being Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Fees are set at a level that reflects the responsibilities of the role and the time commitment required, and the fee levels offered at companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred while performing their duties to the Bank.
RECRUITMENT AND APPOINTMENT TO THE BOARD In the event of appointing a new Executive Director, the remuneration package offered will be determined in line with the following principles: The Committee will seek to pay no more than is necessary: The Committee will consider all relevant factors, including the calibre and experience of the individual and the scope of the role, as well as the interests of the Bank and its shareholders: Salary will be set taking into account the review principles set out in the policy table on page 68.
Where appropriate, the salary may be set at an initially lower level with the intention to make phased salary increases over a number of years which may be above those for the wider employee Group to achieve the appropriate market positioning: The remuneration package will align with the policy table on page 68.
The maximum variable pay opportunity will be within the maximum limits set out in the table, and will be within the 2:1 ratio of variable remuneration to fixed remuneration.
This limit excludes any buy-out awards, which are governed as set out in the paragraph below: Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the Bank or following corporate activity or reorganisation e. g. merger with another Company, the normal policy would be to honour any legacy arrangements in line with the original terms and conditions: Where a new Executive Director has to relocate to take up the appointment, either in the UK or from overseas, practical and or financial support may be given in relation to relocation and mobility: In order to facilitate recruitment, the Committee may need to buy out variable remuneration arrangements forfeited or forgone on leaving a previous employer.
The value of the buy-out awards will broadly be the equivalent of, or less than, the value of the award being bought out.
In accordance with regulatory requirements, these buy-out awards will take into consideration relevant factors including, but not limited to: The form of the award: Any performance conditions attached to those awards: The vesting profile of the awards and the likelihood of vesting: and Relevant regulatory guidance in place in relation to buy-out awards.
The Company may rely on the exemption in the Listing Rules 9.4.
2 to allow any such buy-out awards to be made in line with this Policy without requiring separate shareholder approval.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The notice periods and dates of the current Executive Directors service contracts are shown below: Name Date of service contract Notice period by Company Notice period by Director Steve Pateman 1 Chief Executive Officer 1 October 2015 6 months 6 months Tom Wood Chief Financial Officer 1 April 2015 12 months 12 months Stephen Johnson Deputy Chief Executive Officer 28 July 2015 12 months 12 months 1 Steve Patemans appointment was effective from 1 January 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Banks policy going forward for new Directors is that service contracts As a general rule, unvested DSBP awards will not lapse on cessation of for an Executive Director may be terminated with six months notice by employment, except in the circumstances of dismissal for gross either the Bank or the individual, unless there is evidence of gross misconduct, voluntary resignation or a similar bad leaver reason misconduct or other circumstances where the individual may be summarily determined by the Committee, in which case the awards will lapse dismissed by written notice.
The Committee reserves the right to use a 12 immediately unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Where DSBP month notice period upon recruitment of a new Executive Director awards do not lapse, the awards will ordinarily vest on the original vesting if necessary.
date, subject to the operation of malus and or clawback, unless the Committee determines that the awards should vest on the individuals The Bank may terminate employment by making a payment in lieu of cessation of employment.
notice equivalent to salary and the cost of benefits and pension during the unexpired period of notice.
Where an individual is dismissed for cause, any vested nil-cost options held under the DSBP will also lapse, unless the Committee determines Under the terms of their service contracts, Executive Directors receiving otherwise.
If an individual dies, his unvested DSBP awards will normally vest salary in lieu of notice are required during that period to take all reasonable immediately.
steps to find an alternative remunerated position to mitigate their loss to the Company.
Treatment of outstanding PSP awards The Committee will determine whether an Executive Director is a good Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are appointed via letters leaver in its absolute discretion.
However typical good leaver scenarios will of appointment, which are available for inspection at the Companys include cessation of employment due to injury, ill-health, disability, registered office.
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a threeretirement, the sale of the individuals employing entity out of the Group, year term, and may serve for a second term, at the Boards discretion.
or any other circumstances for which the Committee determines good leaver status is appropriate.
As a general rule, unvested PSP awards will The appointment of the Chairman may be terminated with three months lapse immediately on cessation of employment, unless determined to be a notice by either the Bank or the individual.
The corresponding notice good leaver.
In this case, the awards will ordinarily vest on the original periods for other Non-Executive Directors are one month by either party.
vesting date, unless the Committee determines that the awards should vest on the individuals cessation of employment.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation for loss of office other than fees paid for their notice period.
Where an individual is dismissed for cause, any vested nil-cost options he holds under the PSP will also lapse, unless the Committee determines The Executive Directors service contracts and the Non-Executive Directors otherwise.
If an individual dies, his unvested PSP awards will normally vest letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders at the immediately on the good leaver terms set out above.
If the Committee determines the outstanding awards should vest, the PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE proportion vesting will be subject to: The Remuneration Policy relating to payments for loss of office reflects the The satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions measured service contracts in place as well as the relevant incentive plan rules.
over the original performance period or, where appropriate the period to the individuals cessation of employment : There is no automatic or contractual right to incentive payments.
The The operation of malus and or clawback: and Committee will consider the specific circumstances of the cessation of Pro-rating of awards to reflect the reduced period of time between employment when exercising its discretion, including the rationale for grant and early vesting as a proportion of the original vesting period departure and the performance to the date of cessation, with payments unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Any holding periods applicable to shares acquired under PSP awards may The Committee reserves the right to make additional termination continue to apply following cessation of employment at the Committees payments where such payments are consistent with an existing legal discretion.
obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation, or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Treatment of in year annual bonus and outstanding DSBP awards In general, outstanding annual bonus awards will lapse on cessation of employment, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
72 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS ILLUSTRATION OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The charts below illustrate the potential 2016 remuneration outcomes for the Executive Directors under the new Remuneration Policy, in the following three scenarios: Scenario Description Assumptions Minimum performance Minimum remuneration receivable.
Fixed pay salary as at 1 January 2016, pension and benefits.
No payouts under incentive plans.
Target performance Value of remuneration payable for achieving performance in line Fixed pay as above.
Maximum performance Value of remuneration payable for achieving performance in excess Fixed pay as above.
of the maximum targets set.
2,096k 2,100 Fixed remuneration 30% Annual variable remuneration 1,736k Long-term variable remuneration 1,750 22% 30% 1,400 1,309k 29% 32% 1,064k 1,050 25% 846k 801k 32% 100% 49% 40% 32% 32% 700 652k 25% 459k 32% 32% 100% 43% 35% 350 281k 43% 35% 100% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum CEO: Steve Pateman CFO: Tom Wood Deputy CEO: Stephen Johnson REMUNERTION PAYMENTS AND PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office will only be made if consistent with this remuneration policy or otherwise approved by an Ordinary Resolution by shareholders.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT This section of the Directors Remuneration Report summarises how Shawbrook implemented the Remuneration Policy in 2015, and how it is intended to be operated in 2016.
This Annual Remuneration Report will be submitted to shareholders in an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
Where required, sections of the Annual Remuneration Report have been audited by KPMG LLP - this is indicated where appropriate.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to  Prior to Admission, the Banks governance in relation to remuneration matters was carried out by a jointly formed Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
This Committee met once between 1 January 2015 and the date of Admission.
Material assistance was provided to the Committee by the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Head of Secretariat, the Interim Chief Executive Officer & Chief Financial Officer and the Interim Human Resources Director.
These individuals attended certain meetings by invitation but were not present for discussions on their own remuneration.
From 20 October 2015, the Committee received advice on executive remuneration from Deloitte LLP, following a competitive tender process.
Prior to that, advice was provided by New Bridge Street.
Both Deloitte LLP and New Bridge Street are founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adhere to its Code of Conduct.
Following appointment, Deloitte LLP provided advice and information in respect of the development of the Banks Remuneration Policy, its reporting under the Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations, and compliance with other regulatory requirements, and were paid fees totalling 47,650 for the period.
Deloitte has also provided risk advisory, internal audit and real estate advisory services to Shawbrook during 2015.
New Bridge Street provided advice in respect of executive remuneration arrangements in the period leading up to, and immediately following, Shawbrooks IPO.
Fees paid to New Bridge Street for the period from IPO to October 2015 were 41,000.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from all parties was objective and independent.
Single total figure of remuneration audited The tables below set out the single total figure of remuneration for Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2015, reflecting remuneration received from appointment to the Shawbrook Group plc Board in 2015.
Richard Pyman stepped down as CEO on 2 October 2015.
Inclusive of additional allowance of 110,000 based on annualised allowance of 175,000 for acting as Interim CEO for the period 21 May to 31 December 2015.
Richard Pyman and Tom Wood had previously subscribed for B and or C ordinary shares in the Company, the terms of which provided for their conversion into ordinary shares upon the IPO on a basis determined by reference to the IPO price.
As a result of this conversion, Richard Pyman held 1,181,164 ordinary shares and Tom Wood held 2,742,841 ordinary shares.
74 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Sir George Iain Graham Robin Sally-Ann Paul Roger Lindsey James 7 8 9 9 10 11 9 12 13 Non Executive Director Mathewson Cornish Alcock Ashton Hibberd Lawrence Lovering McMurray Scott Fees 000 31 94 56 61 10 32 64 Total 000 31 94 56 61 10 32 64 14 Legacy share plan 000 3,590 2,308 Total 000 3,621 94 56 2,369 10 32 64 Notes: 7.
Appointed on 20 March 2015 and stepped down from the Board on 6 July 2015.
Pollen Street Capital was paid 30,000 for the services of Lindsey McMurray for the years ended 31 December 2014.
James Scott was a Director of Laidlaw Acquisitions Limited prior to Admission.
He received no fee for this position.
Sir George Mathewson and Robin Ashton had previously subscribed for B and or C ordinary shares in the Company, the terms of which provided for their conversion into ordinary shares upon the IPO on a basis determined by reference to the IPO price.
As a result of this conversion, Sir George Mathewson held 1,237,874 ordinary shares and Robin Ashton held 795,776 ordinary shares.
The tables below set out the single total figure of remuneration for Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the financial year ending 31 December 2014, reflecting remuneration received from appointment to the Shawbrook Bank Limited Board in 2014: Year ended 31 December 2014: 1,3 2 Director Richard Pyman Tom Wood Ian Henderson Salary fee 000 225 275 264 Taxable benefits 000 2 34 1 Pension 000 16 21 6 Annual bonus 000 125 150 Other 000 100 Total 368 480 371 Notes: 1.
Termination payment Sir George Director Mathewson Sir Brian Ivory Graham Alcock Robin Ashton Roger Lovering Fees 123 119 27 50 60 The Group paid Pollen Street Capital Limited 30,000 for the services of Lindsey McMurray.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of remuneration table audited Salary fees Salaries for the Executive Directors were reviewed on Admission, in light of the change in scope and nature of the roles, and to reflect the current FTSE-listed environment.
The table below sets out the salaries for the Executive Directors from the date of Admission.
Salary Salary from pre-Admission Admission 1 Richard Pyman 300,000 350,000 2 Tom Wood 275,000 325,000 3 Stephen Johnson n a 260,000 1.
Richard Pyman stepped down from the Board on 2 October 2015.
Since Richard Pyman stepped down as Chief Executive Officer, Tom Wood has been acting as interim Chief Executive Officer while continuing his role as Chief Financial Officer.
In addition to the salary quoted above, he has received a temporary allowance of 175,000 p. a. for his role as interim Chief Executive Officer.
Stephen Johnson was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer on 21 May 2015.
The 260,000 salary figure shown in the table is his effective salary from appointment to the Board, on an annualised basis.
Salaries for the Executive Directors were increased following Admission to reflect the increased responsibilities associated with Shawbrooks status as a listed Company.
Salaries were determined following a benchmarking review of similar peers and are now more aligned with the market.
Future salary increases will be made in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
As shown in the table above, since his appointment as interim Chief Executive Officer, Tom Wood has received an additional allowance of 175,000 p. a.
On the commencement of Steve Patemans employment as Chief Executive Officer on 1 January 2016, Tom Wood was no longer eligible for this allowance.
Details of Steve Patemans remuneration arrangements on recruitment are shown on page 79.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Similarly, fees for the Non-Executive Directors were set on Admission, as shown below.
The fees remained at these levels throughout 2015, except for the Chairman fee, as shown in the table below: Fees from Fees from Admission 1 August 2015 NED base fee 65,0001 65,000 2 Chairman fee 122,700 190,000 1.
Paul Lawrence received an additional fee of 25,000 p. a. in 2015 in relation to his role as Chairman of the Risk Committee and a fee of 5,000 p. a. in 2015 in relation to his role as a member of the Audit Committee.
Fees received by Sir George Mathewson at the time of Shawbrooks Admission to the Main Market.
Sir George stepped down from the Board on 6 July 2015 and was succeeded as Chairman of the Board by Iain Cornish.
Mr Cornishs fees are 190,000 per annum.
These fees are more in line with FTSE 250 market practice and reflect Mr Cornishs experience and knowledge of the financial services industry.
Taxable benefits Taxable benefits comprise private medical insurance for all Directors and a living allowance for the CFO ceased from April 2015.
Pension In 2015, Executive Directors received employer pension contributions of 7.5% of salary.
All-employee share plans Eligible employees were invited to subscribe for options over ordinary shares of 1 pence Ordinary Shares with an exercise price of 259.76 pence per share, a 20% discount to the average closing middle market quotation of an Ordinary Share for the three dealing days immediately preceding the date on which the invitation to participate was made on 7 September 2015.
The options have a savings contract start date of 1 December 2015 and are exercisable between 1 December 2018 and 1 June 2019.
The options have no performance and all options are outstanding.
On 2 October 2015, some of these options to buy ordinary shares were granted under the terms of the Sharesave Scheme to certain Executive Directors of the Company.
Name Number of options Tom Wood 6,929 Stephen Johnson 6,929 Annual bonus As detailed in the IPO Prospectus, for 2015 the Executive Directors were eligible to participate in the annual bonus, with a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 100% of salary.
For each Executive Director, the 2015 annual bonus outcome was based on performance against a scorecard of measures, weighted 65% on financial measures, and 35% on non-financial measures reflecting the strategic goals of the Bank, and individual objectives.
The table below illustrates performance against the targets set for each measure.
Measure Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Outcome Underlying PBT 45% 55.5m 79.5m 83.5m 80.1m Return on Tangible Equity 10% 15% 23% 27% 26.9%1 Cost:income ratio 10% 56% 48% 44% 48% Risk management 20% Remuneration Committee judgement See below Customer NPS 7.5% 18 30 34 34 Culture & employee engagement 7.5% Remuneration Committee judgement See below 1.
The actual underlying return on equity of 27.9% included a positive uplift of c. 1% due to the revaluation of deferred tax assets following the implementation of the 8% bank surcharge.
The Remuneration Committee determined it was appropriate to exclude this uplift for the purposes of determining bonus outcomes.
Following a review of the Banks risk management performance over the year, based on input from the Chief Risk Officer, the Committee determined a payout of 62.5% under the risk management element of the scorecard.
This outcome reflects the significant effort that has been put into transforming the risk culture of the Bank over the year, which has resulted in substantial improvement, especially during the second half of the year.
During the year, the Bank has performed strongly against the culture and employee engagement element of the scorecard, particularly in regards to the improvement in the risk culture among employees and staff turnover rates.
As a result, the Committee determined that a payout of 100% of maximum was warranted under this element.
The Committee assessed the individual performance of the Executive Directors over the year.
During 2015, Tom Wood performed a pivotal role as CFO during the successful IPO of the Group, and stepped up as interim CEO for seven months of the year, during which he led the Bank following IPO.
As a result of his outstanding commitment and contribution to the Bank over the year, including performing a number of roles, the Committee exercised their discretion to award him a bonus of 100% of salary.
76 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Stephen Johnson also performed a pivotal role during the IPO, providing excellent support to Richard Pyman and Tom Wood in his role as Deputy CEO.
As a result, the Committee determined an overall bonus level of 95% of salary was warranted for Stephen Johnson.
50% of the annual bonus earned has been paid in cash, with the other 50% deferred into Shawbrook shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, which will vest in equal tranches after one, two and three years in March of 2017, 2018 and 2019.
The bonuses earned by the Executive Directors are summarised in the table below: Bonus outcome Amount Amount deferred Director % of maximum paid in cash into shares Tom Wood 100% 212,000 212,000 Stephen Johnson 95% 118,000 118,000 Performance Share Plan No PSP awards were granted in 2015.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited No PSP awards were granted to Executive Directors in 2015.
It is intended that the first awards under the PSP will be granted in 2016.
Payments to past Directors audited There were no payments made to past Directors relating to 2015.
Payments for loss of office audited Richard Pyman stepped down from the role of Chief Executive Officer on 2 October 2015, following a period of ill health.
Mr Pyman did not receive any salary, benefits and pension from the date that he stepped down from the Board.
No awards were made to Mr Pyman under the 2015 annual bonus and he held no outstanding awards under the Performance Share Plan.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited As set out in the Remuneration Policy table above, Executive Directors are required to achieve and maintain, within five years, a shareholding in the Bank of at least 200% of salary.
Until this is achieved, Executive Directors must retain at least 50% of shares acquired on vesting of PSP awards net of tax.
Unvested shares, including shares under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, are not taken into account when assessing achievement against the shareholding requirement.
Interests in shares The table below summarises the shareholdings as at 31 December 2015, and achievement against the shareholding requirements, of the Executive Directors.
Shares owned Current shareholding 1 2 Director outright % of salary Requirement met?
Directors beneficial holdings in the ordinary shares of the Bank, including holdings of connected persons.
Current shareholding valued using the three-day average share price to 31 December 2015 of 352.6p.
The table below summarises the shareholdings of Sir George Mathewson and Robin Ashton at 31 December 2015.
The other Non-Executive Directors have not been included in the table as they currently hold no shares in the Company.
Shareholding at Director 31December 2015 Sir George Mathewson 928,406 Robin Ashton 596,832 There have been no changes in the share interests of the current Directors between 31 December 2015 and to March 2016.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Change in remuneration of the CEO compared to the wider employee population The table below sets out the increase in salary, benefits excluding pension and bonus of the CEO compared to that of the wider employee population.
Based on the salary of Richard Pyman for the period between January and May 2015 and Tom Wood jncluding an acting up allowance for the period between June and December 2015.
Note that the Chief Executives salary increased to reflect the associated additional responsibility and duties of leading a publicly listed Company.
Adjusted for movements in colleague numbers and other impacts to ensure a like for like comparison.
Figures for All employees have been calculated using data for all relevant colleagues except the CEO, which is considered to be the most appropriate Group of colleagues for these purposes.
Historical TSR performance and CEO remuneration outcomes The chart below compares the TSR performance of the Bank to that of the FTSE 250 from the date of Admission 8 April 2015 to the end of the 2015 financial period.
The Remuneration Committee considers the FTSE 250 to provide the most relevant comparison as Shawbrook is currently a constituent of this index.
140 130 120 110 100 90 80 Mar 15 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 16 Shawbrook FTSE 250 The table below summarises the single total figure of remuneration and annual bonus payout as a percentage of maximum for the period used above.
Please note that in future years, once the first tranche of PSP awards have vested, the table will also include PSP vesting as a percentage of maximum.
Period to 31 December 2015 1 Single total figure of remuneration Richard Pyman & Tom Wood 6,694,417 Annual bonus payout Tom Wood % of maximum 100% 1.
Based on the total remuneration of Richard Pyman for the period between January and May 2015 and Tom Wood jncluding an allowance as Interim CEO for the period between June and December 2015.
78 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the total staff costs and dividends paid to shareholders over the relevant financial year and immediately preceding financial year.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 % change Total staff costs 46,611,275 31,204,152 49% Dividends paid n a n a n a 1.
No dividends were paid in 2014 or 2015.
External appointments for Executive Directors Executive Directors are permitted to hold external Board appointments.
External appointments and the treatment of any related fees are also subject to prior approval of the Board.
Stephen Johnson is a Director of Latchglen Limited, but does not receive any fees in respect of this appointment.
At the time of writing, neither Steve Pateman nor Tom Wood held any external appointments.
Recruitment arrangements for Chief Executive Officer Following the departure of Richard Pyman on 2 October 2015, it was announced that Steve Pateman would join Shawbrook Group as CEO on 1 January 2016.
His base salary has been set at 625,000 to reflect the wealth of experience he brings to the Group and his outstanding track record of building highly successful SME banking businesses.
Mr Patemans benefits, bonus opportunity and PSP opportunity have been set in line with the current policy for all Executive Directors.
His pension allowance is 35% of salary, in line with the pension provision offered by his previous employer.
His bonus opportunity will be 100% of salary, of which 50% will be deferred under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan on the same basis as all other Executive Directors, and his PSP awards will typically be made in shares to the equivalent value of up to 100% of salary.
In addition to the above, Mr Pateman has also received one-off share awards in relation to his recruitment: An award of shares was granted to him over 552,623 shares by Special Opportunities Fund Guernsey LP over Shawbrook Group plc shares or options.
This grant is in respect of awards forfeited from his previous employer, is of equivalent value and will be subject to the same deferral schedule as those awards, as well as malus and clawback provisions.
Other shareholders have not suffered any dilution as a result of this award.
A further award over 71,408 ordinary shares has been granted by the Company to compensate him for the reduction in fixed remuneration from his previous employment.
This award vested immediately and the resulting net shares will be subject to a three year holding period.
This award was necessary to secure Steve Patemans services.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2016 The Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2016 in line with the Policy Report above.
Salary The Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors during 2015, following a market review of salary levels.
The salaries effective from 1 January 2016 are as follows: 2016 salary 2015 salary Steve Pateman 625,000 n a Tom Wood 425,000 325,000 Stephen Johnson 260,000 260,000 Following a benchmarking review of peer organisations, the CFOs salary was adjusted from 1 January 2016, in order to ensure that total compensation is competitive and aligned to the market in light of our voluntary implementation of a 2:1 cap on variable remuneration.
Pension As detailed above, with effect from 1 January 2016, the CEO will receive a pension allowance of 35% of salary.
A review of pension levels for the other Executive Directors is currently being undertaken, subject to the maximum pension level set out in our Policy Table above.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity remains unchanged at 100% of salary for Executive Directors.
As for 2015, 50% of any bonus earned will be deferred under the DSBP in line with the Policy table on page 68.
For 2016, the annual bonus will be based on: Measure Weighting Financial measures PBT 35% Return on Tangible Equity 10% Cost:income ratio 10% Non-financial measures Risk management 15% Customer NPS 5% Culture & employee engagement 5% Individual measures Individual performance 20% The 2016 bonus structure and weightings have been adjusted to allow for a specific element of the bonus to be awarded for individual performance against specified short-term business objectives, as agreed at the beginning of the financial year.
For each Executive Director, individual performance will be assessed against a personal scorecard of financial and non-financial metrics including financial, strategic, risk, customer, and people measures.
The 2016 bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and have therefore not been disclosed upfront.
Performance against these targets will be provided in next years Annual Remuneration Report.
Performance Share Plan PSP grants in 2016 will be equal to 100% of salary for Executive Directors.
Any awards that vest will be subject to a two-year holding period following the end of the three-year performance period.
The PSP awards vest subject to the achievement of a balanced scorecard of measures, as set out in the table below: Measure Weighting Target performance requirement Maximum performance requirement Financial measures Relative TSR 20% Median against peer Group Upper quartile against peer Group Earnings per share 40% 20% growth p. a.
Non-financial measures Customer NPS 20% 26 34 Risk management 20% Judgemental assessment against a number of factors see below We intend to use the following Group of selected peers for assessing TSR performance for the 2016 awards: Aldermore Group plc Arrow Global Barclays Close Brothers HSBC International Personal Finance Lloyds Banking Group OneSavings Bank Paragon Group of Companies Provident Financial Royal Bank of Scotland Secure Trust Bank Standard Chartered Virgin Money The risk and compliance factors which will be taken into consideration by the Committee at the time of vesting include: Board risk appetite metrics, material regulatory breaches, completion of actions of regulatory audit control effectiveness reviews, regulatory change programmes and customer complaints.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome to reflect the overall performance of the Group, any significant risk events during the period, or for any other circumstances as deemed appropriate by the Remuneration Committee.
80 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Any vested awards will be subject to a further holding period following the end of the three-year performance period, during which time Executive Directors will not be able to sell any shares earned.
Non-Executive Director Fees The Board reviewed the fees for the Non-Executive Directors in early 2016.
As a result of additional benchmarking undertaken, and to reflect the typical fee structure seen in the UK-listed environment, it was decided to introduce additional fees for the Senior Independent Director, the Chairmen and members of the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees, and members of the Nomination Committee.
As the role of Nominations Committee Chairman is performed by the Chairman of the Board, it was determined that there should be no additional fee for this role.
The Chairman of the Board also receives no additional fee for his membership of the Remuneration Committee.
The new fee structure will take effect from 1 January 2016, and is shown in the table below: Fees from 1 January 2016 NED base fee 65,000 Chairman fee 190,000 SID fee 10,000 Audit and Risk Committee Chairman fee 20,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 5,000 Audit and Risk Committee membership fee 5,000 Remuneration and Nomination Committee membership fee 2,500 STATEMENT OF VOTING AT AGM This will be the first year that the Directors Remuneration Report is put to shareholders for approval.
The results of the vote will be disclosed in the 2016 Annual Remuneration Report.
APPROVAL This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 2 March 2016.
GRAHAM ALCOCK Remuneration Committee Chairman 2 March 2016 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2015 SHAWBROOK GROUP PLC 81
