SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 42 Remuneration report for the period ended 31 January 2015 Introduction and background As reported last year, all former Group employees, including Lynn Fordham, are now employees of Aberdeen Asset Management plc AAM and are paid in accordance with AAMs remuneration policy and not the Companys remuneration policy.
The Company and the Directors therefore have no liability for payments made to these AAM employees by AAM, including payments made to Lynn Fordham.
No such employees have received remuneration from the Company or awards granted by the Company over the Companys shares during the year.
Their remuneration is governed by AAM policy, details of which can be found in the AAM annual report and accounts.
Mrs Fordham retains a significant holding in the Companys shares and holds LTIPs awarded prior to the sale of Aberdeen SVG Managers Limited to AAM, which will continue to vest over the period to March 2017 subject to satisfaction of relevant performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee considers that it is prudent to ask Shareholders to approve a remuneration policy that covers both executive Directors and non-executive Directors.
Should the Company wish to pay an executive Director in the future, the terms of such remuneration will be covered by this policy.
Notwithstanding that the remuneration is paid by AAM to Lynn Fordham pursuant to AAM policy, regulations require that it be disclosed in the Report on remuneration implementation below.
Remuneration Committee meetings The Remuneration Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee considered remuneration at two of their meetings during the year: to review the Companys remuneration policy, approve the 2013 remuneration report and approve the vesting of various LTIP awards.
The Report on remuneration policy and remuneration implementation has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Companys remuneration policy This policy provides details of the remuneration policy for the non-executive Directors of the Company and for any executive Directors that may be paid by the Company in the future.
All Directors, other than Lynn Fordham, are non-executive, appointed under the terms of Letters of Appointment, and none has a service contract.
The Company has no employees.
Lynn Fordham is currently seconded by AAM to act as executive Director of the Company.
As stated above, payments to Lynn Fordham from 1 June 2013 have been, and continue to be made in accordance with AAMs remuneration policy, not the Companys remuneration policy.
The Directors have no liability for payments made to Lynn Fordham by AAM.
A resolution to approve the Companys remuneration policy was passed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Given the changes to the remuneration policy to allow flexibility to pay executive Directors, the policy will be put to Shareholders for approval at the AGM to be held on 1 May 2015.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 43 Remuneration structure Executive Directors The table below sets out SVG Capitals proposed policy in relation to each component of executive Director remuneration, with further explanation in the notes below: Salary fixed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To support the recruitment and retention of executive Directors of the calibre required to manage and grow the Company successfully.
Opportunity and recovery or The Company seeks to pay a fair salary commensurate with the individuals role, withholding provisions responsibilities and experience, importance to the business and having regard to the market rates for similar roles in the sector and other comparable companies.
Salary increases are normally awarded by reference to the increase in the cost of living, but may take into account other factors such as market salary levels, Company performance, individual performance, changes in responsibility and levels of pay elsewhere in the Group.
The Committee will consider the impact of any base salary increase in the total remuneration package.
Other than in exceptional circumstances or where there is a change in role or responsibilities, year on year increases in basic salaries will be in line with general workforce increases and will not exceed inflation by more than 5%.
No recovery or withholding provisions.
1 Performance measurement framework Not applicable.
Benefits fixed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To provide cost-effective benefits, to support the health and well-being of employees and to attract and retain high performing executive Directors.
Operation The Company will provide a range of benefits such as: medical insurance: disability insurance: life assurance: contributions to gym membership and paid holiday.
Specific benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to time.
Opportunity and recovery or withholding Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap as the cost is set by external providers and provisions may change from time to time, but represent only a small percentage of total remuneration.
The costs associated with benefits provision are monitored and controlled.
Pension fixed pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To provide contributions to enable executive Directors and wider staff to make long-term savings to provide post-retirement income.
To provide market competitive defined contributions to assist with recruitment and retention of people of the necessary calibre.
Operation Executive Directors are offered a choice between defined contribution funding to a personal pension scheme or a cash salary supplement or a combination of both.
Opportunity and recovery or Contributions or cash allowances of up to a maximum of 30% of base salary may withholding provisions be provided.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 44 Remuneration report continued Shareholding requirement Purpose and link to strategic objectives To create alignment with Shareholders by encouraging longer-term focus.
Operation Executive Directors and senior staff are expected to build up over a reasonable period of time, and thereafter maintain, a shareholding in the Companys shares.
Opportunity and recovery or The Chief Executive has a share retention target of 3.0 times salary and other senior members withholding provisions of staff have a target of 1.0 times salary.
Vested shares net of income tax and National Insurance contributions under the Deferred Bonus or Long Term Incentive Plans should be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
Other than in exceptional circumstances it is anticipated that the time period taken to build up the required shareholding would not exceed five years.
The Remuneration Committee will retain the ability to introduce additional retention conditions.
Short-term incentives variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To reward performance on an annual basis against key financial, operational, risk and individual objectives.
Operation Discretionary annual bonus scheme and deferred bonus plan under which a proportion of bonus may be compulsorily deferred into shares.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum potential bonus is 200% of salary, although bonuses of up to 300% of withholding provisions salary may be awarded in exceptional circumstances.
The target bonus pay out is 100% of salary.
At least 50% of any bonus will be compulsorily deferred into shares vesting in equal instalments over a period of five years.
All bonus payments are subject to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also retains discretion to amend the proportions of bonus subject to compulsory deferral.
The Remuneration Committee has the right to cancel or reduce any bonus compulsorily deferred into shares in the circumstances described under long-term incentives described below.
1 Performance measurement framework For executive Directors, a maximum of 50% of bonus is normally determined by reference to Company performance and 50% normally by reference to non-financial objectives which may include personal, risk and other key Group targets.
All Group performance targets are reviewed and set by the Committee early in the year to align with the Companys strategic objectives.
The choice and weighting of performance metrics may vary from year to year.
Awards are determined by the Committee after the year end based on the actual performance against these targets.
Details of the annual performance targets andperformance against those targets will be shown in the Remuneration report.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 45 Long-term incentives variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To motivate Directors to deliver long-term Shareholder value, thereby aligning the interests of management with those of Shareholders.
To encourage long-term retention of key executives.
Operation SVG Capital operates a performance share plan under which participants are awarded nil-cost options over the Companys shares.
Opportunity and recovery or The maximum value of nil-cost options that may be granted in any year under the withholding provisions performance share plan rules is 200% of salary and bonus.
In practice, in all but exceptional circumstances, this will be limited to 200% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has the right, in respect of future awards to cancel or reduce long-term incentive awards, in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results, miscalculation of a participants entitlement, individual misconduct or an event resulting in material loss or reputational damage to the Company or any member of the Group.
Further details are provided in note 3.
1 Performance measurement framework Nil-cost options awarded previously under the performance share plan are subject to targets related to the Companys undiluted net asset value per share NAV over a four-year period and the Companys average annual compound total Shareholder return TSR over a threeyear period.
0% of existing performance share awards vest at a threshold performance level, increasing to full vesting at a stretch performance level.
The rules of the scheme provide discretion to the Remuneration Committee to amend the performance targets or impose different performance targets providing that these are no less challenging than the targets imposed when the plan was first introduced.
The Committee has not set the targets for future performance share awards as no awards are currently being granted.
However, the Committee would first consult with major Shareholders before making any significant changes to the targets.
Carried interest variable pay Purpose and link to strategic objectives To align the interests of executives involved in direct investments and or direct co-investments with those of the Shareholders of the Company.
Operation The proceeds of carried interest are only paid out after the performance of the pool of assets has exceeded a minimum level of return.
Carried interest points are allocated on establishment of the scheme and will vest over the investment period of the specified investment pool.
Carry does not apply to any commitments to fund or co-investments alongside these fund commitments.
To be eligible, participants must have satisfied the shareholding retention policy described above and will also be required to co-invest alongside the Company in the pool of assets.
Opportunity and recovery or The carried interest pool for direct investments and or direct co-investments is capped at withholding provisions 20% of net cash profits made on realisations from the underlying investment pool.
If awarded to an executive Director, carried interest is not expected to comprise a large proportion of the overall executive Directors package and other elements of the total remuneration will be reduced to take account of the carried interest award.
At the time that each carried interest scheme is established, carry is pre-allocated for the benefit of investment staff and cannot be returned to the Company, save in the event of the holder ceasing to be a Group employee.
Any carried interest awarded to an executive Director would come from this segregated pool and would not represent any additional exposure to the Company, simply a reduction in the carried interest available to be allocated to other staff.
1 Performance measurement framework SVG Capitals carried interest arrangements require a compound return of 8% p. a. before any proceeds are paid out.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 46 Remuneration report continued Notes to the remuneration policy table 1.
Rationale for choice of performance measures for shortand long-term incentive plans Bonus The performance targets chosen by the Board for the bonus are designed to ensure the successful implementation of the business plan and strategies agreed by the Board and may be adjusted to take account of risk.
The Remuneration Committee will select the performance conditions for determining the bonus awards as they align directly with the shortand long-term strategy of the business.
These conditions are set annually by the Remuneration Committee at levels that take into account the Boards business plan.
Nonfinancial performance is assessed by reference to personal objectives set at the start of the year, including non-financial measures such as risk management, marketing of the Company, team leadership, management skills and promotion of SVG Capitals corporate culture both internally and externally.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to amend or adopt alternative annual bonus targets in order to achieve better alignment with the Companys strategic objectives Performance shares In order to ensure that long-term incentives provide alignment with Shareholders, the Remuneration Committee sets performance conditions that reward executives for delivering absolute value in the Group.
The Remuneration Committee believes that TSR and growth in NAV are appropriate measures of long-term performance for a business which is focused on delivering superior returns in a long-term asset class.
The performance conditions for the last awards granted under the performance share plan consist of i the average growth in the Companys undiluted Net Asset Value NAV per share over a four-year period of 7% p. a.
100%of the award vests and ii the Companys average annual compound total Shareholder return TSR over a three-year period of 10% p. a.
100% of the award vests, with each determining 50% of the award.
These targets have remained the same since the 2009 awards.
Carried interest plans The plans adopt market standard performance measures and targets.
These comprise payment of 20% of net cash profits made on the underlying investment pool once a compound 8% return p. a. on contributed amounts has been reached.
Consistency with policy for all employees SVG Capital executive Directors remuneration packages tend to be higher than those of other Group employees, but also contain a higher proportion of variable pay.
All employees will be eligible to receive salary, pension contributions and benefits and to be considered for a discretionary annual bonus with the maximum opportunities reflecting the role and seniority of each employee.
Higher-earning members of staff below the executive Directors will have a portion of their bonus deferred into shares vesting in equal instalments over a four-year period.
Within the Group, senior members of staff have part of their compensation linked to the long-term performance of the Groups investments through carried interest schemes.
No carried interest will be paid on investments in private equity funds or on co-investments made alongside these funds.
Carried interest will be payable on other equity investments, such as direct co-investments and direct investments.
Malus clawback policy The Committee has agreed a policy which applies to bonus, deferred share awards and performance share plan awards made during the year to executive Directors and certain other senior executives under which awards may be forfeited, or reduced prior to vesting, or recovered after vesting for a period of three years following vesting in exceptional circumstances on such basis as the Remuneration Committee considers fair, reasonable and proportionate.
This would include material misstatement of Group financial statements, material failure of risk management or cases where an individual is deemed to have caused a material loss for the Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the right of forfeiture, reduction or recovery described above will no longer be exercisable by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this policy, which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation of implementation without seeking Shareholder approval for a revised version of the Policy report.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 47 4.
Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company As the Company has no employees, the process of consulting with employees on the setting of the remuneration policy is not relevant.
Committee discretions The Committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee will apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: k selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: k determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: k determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : k determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: k making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. change of control, rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : k determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and applying the appropriate treatment: and k undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures, and setting targets for the bonus and performance share plan PSP from year to year.
If an event occurs which results in the bonus or PSP performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment the Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures and or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or unexercised at the date of this report, as detailed on page 54 of the Annual report on remuneration, remain eligible for vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
Scenarios As no executive Directors are paid by the Company, no remuneration scenarios can be shown.
External appointments The Company permits executive Directors of the Company to accept limited non-executive directorships and other similar appointments, it being recognised that such appointments increase their commercial knowledge and business experience to the general benefit of the Company.
Fees earned from such directorships may be retained by executive Directors.
Chairman and non-executive Directors remuneration policy The non-executive Directors of the Company are entitled to such rates of annual fees as the Board at its discretion shall from time to time determine subject to the aggregate annual fees not exceeding 600,000 and reimbursement of reasonable fees and expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
In line with the majority of investment trusts, no component of any Directors remuneration is subject to performance factors.
There are no provisions in Directors Letters of Appointment for recovery or withholding of fees or expenses.
Annual fees are pro-rated where a change takes place during a financial year.
During the year, the Company simplified its arrangements with respect to payments to non-executive Directors.
The Chairmans arrangements did not change.
These changes for non-executive Directors are set out below and are consistent with the existing remuneration policy approved by shareholders: Component Prior position Current position Basic fee 25,000 42,500 Chairman Audit Committee 10,000 5,000 Chairman Remuneration Committee 10,000 5,000 Senior Independent Director 5,000 5,000 Non-chairman members of Audit and Remuneration Committees 5,000 nil Attendance fee 1,500 1,500 per meeting per meeting attended in excess of five in any financial year provided more than ten meetings have been attended in that year Assuming seven board meetings in a financial year the number of meetings that took place in 2013 that attendance fees paid were paid in respect of attendance fees are not paid for certain ad-hoc meetings or briefing meetings the total aggregate amount paid under the prior position would have been 151,500 and under the current position would have been 150,000.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 48 Remuneration report continued Table of Directors Remuneration Components Non-executive Directors Element Purpose and link strategy Operation Maximum Board To attract and retain The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities.
The level There is no Chairman fee a high-calibre Board of the fee is reviewed, periodically by the Remuneration Committee, with maximum Chairman by offering a reference to workload, time commitment and market levels in comparably feelevel.
market-competitive fee sized FTSE companies, and a recommendation is then made to the Board level.
without the Chairman being present.
The Chairman does not receive benefits other than limited travel and hospitality-related benefits may be provided in connection with the role.
Non-executive To attract and retain The non-executives are paid a basic fee and, under certain circumstances, There is no Director fees high-calibre nonan attendance allowance.
The Audit and Remuneration Committee maximum executive Directors Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director are paid supplements to feelevel.
by offering a marketreflect the additional responsibilities, workload and time commitment.
fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee, with reference to workload, time commitment and market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
Non-executive Directors do not receive benefits other than limited travel and hospitality related benefits may be provided in connection with the role.
The Board only exercises its discretion in setting rates of fees after an analysis of fees paid to Directors of other companies having similar profiles to that of the Company, and consultation with third-party advisers.
Accordingly, there are no differences in policy on the remuneration of Directors and the remuneration of employees.
No Director is entitled to receive any remuneration from the Company which is performance-related.
As a result, there are no performance conditions in relation to any elements of the Directors remuneration in existence to set out in this remuneration policy.
Service Contracts none of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
Non-executive Directors are engaged under Letters of Appointment.
Appointments are generally for a three-year term, subject to annual re-election at each AGM.
The dates of the current Letters of Appointment are as follows: Stephen Duckett 12 March 2012 Andrew Sykes 28 September 2012 Lynn Fordham 1 June 2013 David Robins 6 August 2013 Helen Mahy 23 July 2014 Loss of Office Directors Letters of Appointment expressly prohibit any entitlement to payment on loss of office.
Scenarios as the Chairman and non-executive Directors remuneration is fixed at annual rates, there are no other scenarios where remuneration will vary.
It is accordingly not considered appropriate to provide different remuneration scenarios for each Director.
Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company as the Company has no employees, the process of consulting with employees on the setting of the Remuneration Policy is not relevant.
Other Items None of the non-executive Directors has any entitlement to pensions or pension related benefits, medical or life insurance schemes, share options, long-term incentive plans, or performance related payments.
No non-executive Director is entitled to any other monetary payment or any assets of the Company except in their capacity where applicable as shareholders of the Company.
Recruitment policy In determining remuneration arrangements for new executive appointments to the Board including internal promotions, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors, including the calibre of the individual, the nature of the role, local market practice, the individuals current remuneration package, SVG Capitals remuneration policy, internal relativities and existing arrangements for current executive Directors.
For external appointments, some variation may be necessary in order to attract the successful candidate and to reflect particular skills or experience specifically required.
Where relevant, local market practice, with respect to pension and benefits provision may also be taken into account.
The maximum level of variable pay as expressed as a percentage of base salary which may be awarded to new executive Directors in respect of their appointment shall be no more generous than the combined maximum levels expressed in the remuneration policy table above in respect of the Chief Executive, with an appropriate mix between annual bonus, excluding any awards made to compensate the executive Director for awards forfeited by their previous employer.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 49 If a new appointment is the result of an internal promotion the Remuneration Committee would expect to honour any pre-existing or contractual arrangements or benefits package agreed with the relevant individual.
In the event that a new Director resides overseas, the Remuneration Committee may agree a reasonable relocation package and tax equalisation arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee may make bonus commitments or share awards on the appointment of an external candidate to compensate for remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, taking into account factors such as any performance conditions attached to those awards, the form in which they were granted, for example cash or shares, and the time over which they would have vested.
The aim would be to ensure that replacement awards would be made on no greater than a comparable basis.
The Committees intention is that any such awards made are in the best interests of both the Company and its Shareholders.
The Committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary, particularly when determining buyout arrangements.
The Company would make use of existing arrangements where possible and may also make awards under the exemptions from prior Shareholder approval contained in the Listing Rules.
In the event of an appointment of a new non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table below.
Service contracts The main terms of the service contracts of the executive Directors will be as follows: Provision Policy Notice period Six months notice if given by the Company Six months notice if given by the executive Director Company policy is that future executive Directors notice periods should not normally exceed six months.
Save for these notice periods the contracts have no unexpired terms.
Dates of contracts At the date of this Report and Accounts, Lynn Fordham is the only executive Director.
Her employment contract is with Aberdeen Asset Management and the Company has entered into a Letter of Appointment on similar terms to non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment.
Termination payments All Directors contracts entitle the Company to give pay in lieu of notice.
This would be limited payment of salary and benefits for the remainder of the notice period.
In future contracts such payments would normally be phased and subject to mitigation.
Remuneration and benefits The operation of all incentive plans, including being eligible to be considered for an annual bonus and deferred share awards is non-contractual.
All incentive plans are subject to usual good leaver provisions.
In order to be entitled to an annual bonus, an executive Director must normally be in the Groups employment and not under notice of termination either given or received at the time the bonus is paid.
In good leaver circumstances, the Committee has discretion to pay a pro-rata bonus in respect of the proportion of the year worked.
Such awards would be subject to application of the performance conditions.
Shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only vest if the Director remains an employee of the SVG Capital Group during the vesting period commencing when the award is made and will vest in equal annual instalments.
Awards would vest early on a change of control.
In the event of a change of control before the expiry of the performance measurement period of a longterm incentive award, the vesting level of the award will be determined by the Remuneration Committee based on the extent to which the performance targets have been achieved and vested shares will then be scaled down to reflect the shortened measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee may modify such vesting levels if it considers that the performance target would be met to a lesser or greater degree at the testing date and or if the application of pro-rating would be inappropriate in the circumstances.
On termination of employment, outstanding awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors do not have service contracts or contracts for services.
Their appointment letters provide no entitlement to compensation or other benefits on ceasing to become a director.
Service contracts will be available for inspection at the Companys headquarters in business hours.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 50 Remuneration report continued Report on Remuneration Implementation This Report is prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Directors emoluments Directors are only entitled to fees at such rates as are determined by the Board from time to time in accordance with the Remuneration Policy.
The rates of Directors fees applicable for the financial year were set out in the Directors Remuneration Report contained in the Companys 2013 Annual Report & Accounts and were amended in 2014, consistent with the Remuneration Policy as more fully described on page 42.
A binding Ordinary Resolution proposing approval of the Remuneration Policy was put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company held on 28 March 2014, and was passed by 98.96% of shareholders voting on the resolution.
A non-binding Ordinary Resolution proposing approval of the Remuneration Report was also put to shareholders at that meeting and was passed by 65.01% of shareholders voting on the resolution.
TheCompanys largest shareholder voted against a number of resolutions at the AGM, including the Remuneration Report resolution.
Had that shareholder voted in favour of the resolution approving the Remuneration Report, the resolution would have been passed by 94.23% of shareholders.
No opinions were expressed by shareholders with respect to the policy that applied to non-executive Directors, being the only policy that will apply going forward.
None of the Directors has any entitlement to pensions or pension related benefits, medical or life insurance schemes, share options, long-term incentive plans, or performance related payments.
No Director is entitled to any other monetary payment or any assets of the Company.
Accordingly the Single Total Figure table below does not include columns for any of these items or their monetary equivalents.
Directors & Officers insurance is maintained and paid for by the Company on behalf of the Directors.
In line with market practice the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors in respect of costs, charges, losses, liabilities, damages and expenses, arising out of any claims or proposed claims made for negligence, default, breach of duty, breach of trust or otherwise, orrelating to any application under Section 1157 of the Companies Act 2006, in connection with the performance of their duties as Directors of the Company.
The indemnities would also provide financial support from the Company should the level of cover provided by the Directors & Officers insurance maintained by the Company be exhausted.
Details of the implementation of the remuneration policy are set out below.
The Committee appointed New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon plc to provide general remuneration advice and specific advice on the operation of its long term incentive plans.
New Bridge Street helped establish these plans and was therefore well placed to advise on them.
Neither New Bridge Street nor any other partof the Aon Corporation provided other services to the Company during the year and the Committee was therefore comfortable with their objectivity and independence.
No fees were paid to New Bridge Street during the period.
Single Total Figure Tables Set out below, are single total figure tables for non-executive Directors and the executive Director.
Non-executive Directors are paidtheirfees by the Company.
From 1 June 2013, Lynn Fordham ceased to be an employee of the Group when she became an employee of AAM and her remuneration has been paid by AAM and not by the Company.
Regulations require that the remuneration paid by AAM to Lynn Fordham be disclosed in this Remuneration Report.
The Directors who served during the period received the following emoluments: Single Total Figure Table audited information 3 Non-executive Directors Fees paid Taxable benefits Total For the For the For the 13month 13month 13month period ended period ended period ended Name of Director 31 Jan 2015 2013 31 Jan 2015 2013 31 Jan 2015 2013 Andrew Sykes 140,833 130,000 140,833 130,000 Stephen Duckett 55,208 55,000 55,208 55,000 1 Caroline Goodall 37,250 55,500 37,250 55,500 2 Helen Mahy 22,940 22,940 1 David Robins 55,208 16,500 55,208 16,500 1 Retired 30 September 2014.
3 None of the fees referred to in the above table were paid to any third-party in respect of the services provided by any of the Directors.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 51 Single Total Figure Table audited information From 1 June 2013, LynnFordham has been employed by AAM.
The information in this table comprises the remuneration received by LynnFordham from AAM, as advised by AAM for the 13 month period to 31 January 2015.
Lynn Fordham is a non-executive of Fuller, Smith and Turner PLC and received fees of 63,083 in respect of this appointment during the period.
Such fees were retained by MrsFordham.
While the Company has no control over the bonus paid to Lynn Fordham by AAM, it is required to disclose information on this payment by virtue of Mrs Fordhams appointment by the Company as the Companys nominee on the Board of ASVG.
3 Executive Directors Lynn Fordham Notes Salary & Fees 392,471 All payments are made by AAM pursuant to the AAM remuneration policy.
Benefit 6,075 Includes private health care, life cover and permanent health insurance.
Annual Bonus 1,250,000 75% of this is deferred into shares and vests in equal tranches over three years.
50% of the deferred amount is in AAM shares with the balance in SVG Capital plc shares.
Vesting of Long Term Incentive 2,821,195 Relating to awards made in 2010 and 2011 that vested during the period to 31 January 2015.
All of this amount was gain.
Pension 78,770 Includes 30,483 paid by way of salary supplement.
Total 4,548,511 Total 2013 5,067,109 Annual Bonus Lynn Fordhams key performance parameters, her performance against them and therefore her bonus are all determined by AAM and the bonus is paid by AAM.
Mrs Fordham received a bonus of 1,250,000, 75% of which was deferred in shares which are released in equal tranches over three years, subject to her continued employment with AAM.
468,750 of the bonus was deferred into shares in AAM and 468,750 of the bonus was deferred into shares of the Company.
Long Term Incentives The value attributable to Long Term Incentives is the market value of the shares on the day that they vested during the year, regardless ofwhether they were exercised or not.
Lynn Fordham had 384,466 nil cost options that vested on 15 April 2014 with a market price of 416.5p per share and 281,750 nil cost options that vested on 17 February 2014 at 433p per share.
Full details of shares vested but unexercised are on page 54.
These awards were made on 15 April 2010 and 17 February 2011 respectively and were subject to the four year net asset value per share performance condition and the three year total shareholder return performance condition respectively, fulldetails of which are contained in the table at the top of page 54.
Other Benefits Taxable Benefits The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors are entitled to be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred by them in connection with the performance of their duties and attendance at Board and General Meetings.
Pensions related benefits Mrs Fordham received a pension entitlement of 20% of salary from AAM.
No awards were made to Directors over ordinary shares of the Company during the period.
Loss of office For the period from 1 June 2013, Lynn Fordhams employment contract has been with AAM and the Company has no contractual liability for loss of office payments.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but are engaged under Letters of Appointment.
These specifically exclude any entitlement to compensation upon leavingoffice for whatever reason.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 52 Remuneration report continued Share Price Total Return The chart below illustrates the total shareholder return for a holding in the Companys shares as compared to the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Committee has decided that the FTSE All-Share Total Return Index is the most appropriate, available broad market index for comparative purposes as it is the principal index which the Companys shares are quoted.
Total shareholder return vs FTSE All-Share Total Return Index over five years to 31 January 2015 500 400 300 200 100 0 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Dec 31-Jan 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 SVG Capital FTSE All-Share Index Rebased at 100 at 31 December 2009 Source: Bloomberg Total remuneration of Chief Executive The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the financial years shown in the TSR graph is shown in the following table.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in each year.
The LTIP vesting figures and bonus payments show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
For the 13month period ended 2010 2011 2012 2013 31 Jan 2015 Total remuneration 000 865 970 2,077 5,067 4,549 2 LTIP vesting % 0% 0% 80.5% 100% 100% 3 1 1 Bonus % 65.4% 80.5% 71% N A N A 1 Mrs Fordhams bonus that was paid by AAM is not subject to a cap, therefore a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
2 LTIP vesting % is percentage by LTIPs that vested against maximum number that could have vested in that year.
3 Bonus % is actual bonus paid against maximum bonus that could have been awarded.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 53 Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The table below shows the proportion of the Companys income spent on pay.
For the 13month period ended 31 Jan 2015 2013 Difference 1 Total employee pay 4.9m 7.9m Distribution to Shareholders: a dividends 0m 0m b share buyback 205.0m 151.1m 1 This includes Directors fees and Group employee pay.
There were no Group employees following the transaction with Aberdeen Asset Management which closed on 31 May 2013.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited information Neither the Companys Articles of Association nor the Directors Letters of Appointment require a Director to own shares in the Company, however executive Directors and members of the Companys Investment Committee comprising employees of ASVG are encouraged to build up an interest inthe Companys shares.
Inthe case of Lynn Fordham, she has agreed to hold shares equivalent to at least 100% of her salary whilst she retains the position of Executive Director.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline.
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the equity securities of the Company at 31January 2015 are shown in the table below: Ordinary Shares Loan Stock For the For the 13month 13month period ended period ended Director 31 Jan 2015 2013 31 Jan 2015 2013 Andrew Sykes 31,000 31,000 Lynn Fordham 483,815 194,468 Stephen Duckett Nil Nil Caroline Goodall Nil Helen Mahy 3,529 David Robins 4,000 4,000 The Company has been advised that Mr Duckett is not able to own shares in the Company due to restrictions imposed by other companies that he acts for in a non-executive capacity.
Helen Mahy appointed to the Board on 24 July 2014.
Caroline Goodall resigned from the Board on 30 September 2014.
The performance conditions consist of i average growth in the Companys undiluted Net Asset Value per Share over a four year period of 7% p. a.
100% of the award vests and ii the Companys annual compound total shareholder return over a three-year periodof 10% p. a.
These awards were over the four year period from 15 April 2010 subject to the performance condition that average growth in the Companys undiluted Net Asset Value per share of at least 7% p. a. with full vesting taking place at 15% p. a.
The actual average growth in undiluted Net Asset Value per share was24%p.
a. so the awards vested fully.
Mrs Fordham has exercised all of the vested shares.
These awards were made under the AAM bonus deferral scheme and granted by AAM.
They will vest subject to continued employment and good bad leaver provisions.
These awards were over the three year period from 17 February 2011 subject to the performance condition that average annual compound total shareholders return beat least 10% with full vesting taking place at 20%.
The actual average annual compound total shareholder return was 20.2% so the awards vested fully.
Mrs Fordham exercised all of the vested shares.
These awards were made under the Companys Deferred Share Bonus Plan and will vest subject to continued employment and good bad leaver provisions.
1 Mrs Fordham exercised these vested awards during the period.
The price of an ordinary share on 13 October 2009, when awards were granted to Lynn Fordham under the PSP, was 126.2p.
The price of an ordinary share on 15 April 2010, when awards were granted to Lynn Fordham under the PSP, was 170.7p.
The price of an ordinary share on 17 February 2011, when awards were granted to Lynn Fordham under the PSP, was 250.5p.
The price of an ordinary share on 22 March 2012, when awards were granted to Lynn Fordham under the PSP, was 278.7p.
The price of an ordinary share on 6 March 2013, when awards were granted to Lynn Fordham under the PSP, was 385.0p.
This price was used for awards made to Lynn Fordham under the deferred share bonus plan.
The price of our ordinary share on 12 December 2014, when awards were granted under the AAM bonus deferral scheme was 430.24p.
The mid-market price of shares at 30 January 2015 was 435.3p and the range for the year was 382.2p to 466p.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2015 Corporate information 55 Share plan dilution limits The Company has established an employee benefit trust EBT to enable it to subscribe for or purchase shares in the market to satisfy awards and options made to employees under the PSP and the 2001 ESOP.
During the year, the EBT sold 134,750 shares in the two Tender Offers and with the proceeds received purchased 151,147 shares.
In addition, 155,451 shares were transferred from Treasury to the EBT during the year to be used to satisfy vested LTIP awards.
3,239,242 shares were sold or transferred by the EBT to satisfy LTIP awards that vested in 2014.
The total number of shares held by the EBT is 686,790 at a total cost of 1,557,194 excluding commission and stamp duty representing 0.83% of the Companys issued share capital, excluding treasury shares as at 18 March 2015.
The maximum number of shares that theCompany may require to satisfy awards assuming that all awards vest fully and are exercised is 1,892,907 shares.
The Board will continue to regularly review the benefit of using the trust to make market purchases.
The Board may use new issue shares or shares held in treasury if any to satisfy grants.
Inany 10 calendar year period the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than 10% of the issued ordinary share capital ofthe Company under the PSP, the 2001 ESOP and any other employees share scheme adopted by the Company.
As at 31 January 2015, the total number of shares issued or issuable under awards and options made under the PSP and the 2001 ESOP in the last 10calendar years was equal to 3.58% ofthe issued ordinary share capital on that date excluding treasury shares.
AIFMD remuneration requirements The AIFMD Remuneration requirements are specific in advising firms that the disclosure of Remunerated Code staff remuneration is to bebased on a full accounting period.
As this legislation was only introduced in July 2014, it means that only six months information would be available for publication.
Based on the information not providing a complete picture for this accounting period, the information is not being disclosed until after the end of the next full accounting period.
Approval This Directors remuneration report, including both the report on remuneration policy and remuneration implementation has been approved by the Board of Directors.
On behalf of the Board Helen Mahy Chairman, Remuneration Committee 23 March 2015
