Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Report on Directors Remuneration Long-Term Incentive Scheme LTIS vesting Remuneration Committee The LTIS award for the 2013-15 performance period vests in June Chairmans Statement 2016.
The final payment due under the 2013 LTIS is determined with reference to three performance measures: relative TSR 50% weighting, cash flow 25% weighting and Return on Equity 25% Dear Shareholder weighting.
The TSR and Cash Flow metrics have been tested at On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors 31December 2015, and 36% of the TSR-related element has Remuneration Report DRR for the year to 31 December 2015. vestedand 48% of the cash flow related element has vested.
Thereport comprises: Thisassessment will result in a future payment due in June 2016 of59,030 to Paul Mainwaring.
The ROE-related component will Annual Report on Remuneration, which details how our policy beperformance tested in June 2016 as it takes account of relative was applied in 2015: and performance, prior to the final payment being made.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, which was approved at the 2014 AGM, and is included for information only as no changes Base salary restraint are proposed at the 2016 AGM.
In accordance with our Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in 2014 our Executive Directors received no base Shareholder consultation and application of our salary increase in 2015.
Remuneration Policy As highlighted in the 2014 DRR the Remuneration Committee the Increasing alignment of remuneration Committee introduced more detailed and structured individual withshareholders Performance Targets Targets for our Executive Directors to In 2015 we introduced an element of share-based remuneration provide a clear framework for the assessment of annual bonus.
It is hoped that in time we will be TheCommittee has assessed the performance of the Executive abletoextend this more widely across the Company.
The Board Directors against these Targets to determine the appropriate level firmly believes this better aligns the interests of senior staff of bonus within the range.
The Targets and the Committees andshareholders.
assessment of performance are disclosed in this report.
Looking ahead It is also important to note that the policy approved in 2014 In 2016 we expect to start work on developing anew includes some significant constraints on incentive pay.
The Remuneration Policy with the intention of aligning performance BonusPool Operating Profit is subject to a cap of 150% of the prioryear Bonus Pool Operating Profit.
In 2015 we have achieved a objectives with key milestones in the integration of IGBB.
Although substantial increase in our operating profit after exceptional items, the acquisition is expected to complete during this year, the timing is uncertain and it is therefore unclear whether we will apply our despite a challenging business environment.
For the Executive current Remuneration Policy to part or all of 2016 or seek Directors the Bonus Pool Operating Profit without the application of this cap would have been 145.7m.
With the application of this shareholder approval during 2016 for a new policy for the enlarged cap, the actual Bonus Pool Operating Profit used for calculating Group.
In any event we will seek shareholder approval for a new Remuneration Policy at our AGM in 2017 at the latest.
We intend bonuses was 80.7m, reducing the bonus opportunity by 45%.
toseek advice from shareholders when the timing of completion Following the significant number of votes against the DRR at last becomes clearer.
years AGM, I wrote to our largest shareholders and their agents We also await with interest the conclusions of the Investment explaining that the Committee expected for 2015 to award bonuses only in relation to agreed performance criteria and not to Association Executive Remuneration Working Group on the exercise its discretion with respect to exceptional circumstances.
For 2015 the Committee undertook a comprehensive performance The Committee is also closely monitoring developments in assessment in awarding bonuses in accordance with our policy remuneration regulation from European and UK authorities.
there be need to amend policy or practice in light of these regulatory developments, the Committee will undertake consultation with Performance and reward outcomes for 2015 major shareholders in advance of any significant proposed changes.
Our Chief Executive is entitled to receive a bonus of 1.825 2.175% of Bonus Pool Operating Profit and our Finance Director is entitled Key decisions of the Committee for 2015 to a bonus of 0.675 0.825% of Bonus Pool Operating Profit.
The Agreed and assessed specific performance objectives for each individual performance objectives are reported on in detail on Executive Director: pages 42 and 43.
The Remuneration Committee awarded our Chief Consultation with shareholders following the 36% vote against Executive 28 basis points out of a potential 35 basis points for our Remuneration Report at our 2015 AGM: performance against these objectives, resulting in a total bonus of 1,698,735.
Our Finance Director was awarded 11 basis points out Introduction of a share based compensation plan for senior staff: of a potential 15 basis points against his objectives, resulting in a Decision to review Remuneration Policy in 2016 following the total bonus of 633,495.
Executive Directors are required to invest acquisition of IGBB: and 50% of the post-tax bonus into Company shares, deferred for three Appointment of New Bridge Street as advisors to the years.
This assists in building towards the minimum shareholding Remuneration Committee.
requirement, which is 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of base salary for the Finance Director.
Total shareholder return for the 7 years to 31 December 2015 Stephen Pull was284%.
Chairman Remuneration Committee 1 March 2016 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 39 Report on Directors Remuneration continued The Report on Directors Remuneration has been prepared in Governance accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, The Role of the Remuneration Committee theUKLA Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
TheCompanies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the The Committee is chaired by Stephen Pull.
The other members of the Committee during 2015 were Angela Knight, Roger Perkin and Companys members on certain parts of the Report on Directors David Shalders.
Roger Perkin stood down from the Remuneration Remuneration and to state whether in their opinion those parts ofthe report have been properly prepared in accordance with Committee in July 2015.
All members of the Committee are theregulations.
The Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement, the The Committee is responsible on behalf of the Board for developing Directors Remuneration Policy and certain parts of the Annual and maintaining formal and transparent policies on remuneration Report on Remuneration indicated in that report are unaudited.
for the Companys employees, the framework in which that policy is applied, and its cost.
In addition, the Committee regularly Definitions used in this report reviews remuneration policies to ensure that they continue to Executive Director means any executive member of the Board: becompliant with the relevant corporate governance and regulatory requirements, including the Remuneration Code.
Senior Management means those members of the Companys Executive Committee other than the Executive Directors and The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for: thefirst level of management below that level: reviewing and approving the general principles of the Companys Broker means front office revenue generators: remuneration policies: considering the relationship between incentives and risk: Control Functions means those employees engaged in functions such as Compliance, Legal, HR, Finance, Operations and Risk determining the application of the Companys remuneration Control: policies to the Executive Directors: reviewing the application of the Companys remuneration Remuneration Code means the Remuneration Code of the policies to Senior Management, Brokers and Control Functions: FCA:and determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and 2013 Regulations means the Large and Medium-sized Companies theChairman: and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. approving the remuneration of Senior Management after Annual Report on Remuneration consultation with the Chief Executive: The Annual Statement made by the Chairman on page 39 and this approving all share and long term incentive schemes and their Annual Report on Remuneration are subject to a shareholders application: and advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Information in this report reviewing and approving the Report on Directors Remuneration.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were: Companys website, www.
Stephen Pull Chairman, David Shalders, Roger Perkin and Angela Knight.
With effect from 2 July 2015, Roger Perkins stepped down The Chairman and the Executive Directors attend the Committee from his position on the Remuneration Committee and was not by invitation.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors are not replaced on this Committee.
permitted to be in attendance when any matter relating to their own remuneration is being discussed.
During 2015 the Committee also undertook the regular task of approving the remuneration of senior management and addressed the Companys obligations under the Remuneration Code which apply to the Company and its FCA regulated subsidiaries which remain in the lowest category for the purposes of the Remuneration Code classified as Proportionality Tier Three including reviewing the remuneration of all Remuneration Code staff.
As required by the Remuneration Code, an annual central and independent review of compliance with policies and procedures forremuneration adopted by the Company was undertaken.
This work, conducted by the Companys internal auditor, provided the Committee with an independent assessment of compliance with the Remuneration Code and supported the Committees conclusion that the Company continues to comply with the Remuneration Code.
The Remuneration Policy Statement, including the list of Remuneration Code staff, has been reviewed, and the disclosures required to be made under the Remuneration Code have been approved.
These disclosures are available on the Companys website, www.
40 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The single total remuneration for each of the Directors who held office during the year ended 31 December 2015 was as follows: 1 Salaries and fees Benefits Bonus LTIS Pension Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 2 John Phizackerley 550 183 1 1,699 537 2,250 720 7 Paul Mainwaring 350 350 1 1 633 495 59 1,043 846 Non-executive Directors 3 Rupert Robson 196 175 196 175 Angela Knight 64 59 64 59 Roger Perkin 67 62 67 62 4 Stephen Pull 67 62 67 62 David Shalders 59 45 59 45 5 Carol Sergeant 68 68 6 Terry Smith 494 1 495 1,421 1,430 2 2 2,332 1,032 59 3,814 2,464 Notes: 1 50% of the bonus is subject to investment in the Companys ordinary shares as detailed in the policy table.
2 Appointed 1 September 2014, 2014 bonus award equivalent to 1,611,000 on an annualised basis.
3 In addition he received 4,000 as a pension trustee.
4 In addition he received 4,000 as a pension trustee.
Includes fees under consultancy arrangement for advisory services in the amount of 35,000 during 2015.
6 Former Chief Executive retired 31 August 2014.
The value vested following achievement of performance conditions measured to 31 December 2015.
With the application of the cap, the actual Bonus Pool Operating Fixed remuneration Profit used for calculating bonuses was 80.7m, reducing the The fixed remuneration of the Chief Executive, John Phizackerley bonusopportunity by 45%.
and the Finance Director, Paul Mainwaring remained unchanged throughout 2015 at 550,000 and 350,000 respectively.
The allocation to each of the Executive Directors took into consideration their personal contribution, relative responsibilities Annual bonus and their performance against specific objectives agreed with The Remuneration Committee determined that the Bonus Pool eachExecutive Director during the first quarter of 2015.
Within the Operating Profit for 2015 should amount to 80.7m.
overall limits set by the Remuneration Policy our Chief Executive is eligible for a bonus of between 1.825% and 2.175% of Bonus Pool The Remuneration Policy requires that for any bonus to be Operating Profit.
Our Finance Director is eligible for a bonus of awardedto the Executive Directors, operating profit must between 0.675% and 0.825% of Bonus Pool Operating Profit.
exceedathreshold calculated as the weighted average cost of capital times the average capital employed.
The Committee determined In determining annual bonus awards, the Committee also that the Bonus Pool Operating Profit had exceeded this threshold.
confirmed, in consultation with the Board Risk Committee, thattheCompany and individual executives had operated within For 2014 the Bonus Pool Operating Profit of 53.8m was agreed risk controls and regulatory compliance requirements.
determined after deducting from operating profit exceptional items including a charge of 46.7m relating to the cost 50% of the 2015 bonus net of tax has to be invested in the improvement programme.
In 2015 we achieved a significant Companys ordinary shares to be held for three years and will be recovery in our operating profit after exceptional items, despite subject during this time to clawback as described in the Directors` achallenging business environment.
The Bonus Pool Operating Remuneration Policy.
The reinvestment requirement does not have Profit used to determine the aggregate bonus pool in 2015 was any service or other non-performance conditions attached to it.
subject to a cap of 150% of the prior year Bonus Pool Operating For 2015 the Remuneration Committee awarded John Phizackerley Profit of 53.8m.
a bonus of 1,698,735 which comprised a base bonus of Without the application of this cap the Bonus Pool Operating Profit 1,472,775 equivalent to 1.825% of Bonus Pool Operating Profit would have been 145.7m.
This is based on reported operating and a bonus of 225,960 determined by his performance against profit of 121.9m adding back the amortisation of PVM deferred his agreed personal objectives.
consideration and intangible assets arising on acquisition and the costs relating to the proposed acquisition of IGBB.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 41 Report on Directors Remuneration continued The Targets set for the Chief Executive, the allocation of the bonus pool for each objective, and the assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the performance against each objective is shownbelow.
Potential Overall Award Score Assessment of Performance by the Chief Executive Performance Targets Basis Points Basis Points Remuneration Committee Strategic actions investing in new initiatives 6 6 Comprehensive approach to strategic thinking, for growth McKinsey project leading to 10 arrows, Murphy Durieu and MOAB acquisitions completed.
Management team key hires and complete 6 5 New senior team largely complete and working well formation of the Executive Committee together.
Good interaction with the Board.
Finance and operating reforms greater 3 2 Some progress in reviewing and monitoring internal responsibility and accountability by business approval and authorisations for various internal heads for budgets processes.
New T&E policy with lower thresholds.
Staff including training and reforms to Broker 3 2 Significant progress in achieving a cultural shift in compensation support of core values.
Regulatory matters complete governance 3 2 Appointed new General Counsel in March and Chief framework Risk Officer in April, significant progress in driving overall Group Risk Committee and defining framework.
Improved relationships and dialogue withFCA.
Information technology setting strategy and 3 2 Successfully changed IT leadership.
Objectives set objectives andstrategy to transform IT agreed.
Structured approach to clients including launching 3 3 Established new Client Relationship Management new Client Relationship Management function framework with leadership inplace.
At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee 8 6 Leadership regarding the acquisition of IGBB, arguably the most transformational opportunity available to the Group.
Underlying EPS broadly flat forthe year.
Total 35 28 In total, the Remuneration Committee awarded 28 basis points out of 35 basis points for performance by our Chief Executive against individual targets.
The Remuneration Committee therefore determined the Chief Executives Bonus for 2015 would be 2.105% of Bonus Pool Operating Profit and has awarded a 2015 bonus of 1,698,735.
42 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information For 2015 the Remuneration Committee awarded Paul Mainwaring a bonus of 633,495 which comprised a base bonus of 544,725 equivalent to 0.675% of Bonus Pool Operating Profit and a bonus of 88,770 determined by his performance against his agreed personalobjectives.
The Targets set for the Finance Director, the allocation of the bonus pool for each objective, and the assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the performance against each objective is shown below.
Potential Overall Award Score Assessment of Performance by the Finance Director Performance Targets Basis Points Basis Points Remuneration Committee Manage delivery of appropriate 2014 and 2015 2 2 All elements successfully completed.
The careful financial outcomes and manage the financing monitoring of the financial performance in the third ofinvestments quarter and the development of the Q3 forecast gave the context for the cost improvement exercise.
Refinance the RCF 2 2 The RCF was successfully refinanced and enlarged due to the proposed acquisition of IGBB on the original plan timescale.
Refinance the 2016 Notes 2 1 This was only partially completed due to the planned acquisition of IGBB.
PVM technical integration 2 2 The bolt on strategy has now been replaced by full integration of PVM activities.
Pension scheme investment review and 2 2 The pension scheme investment review was implementation completed during the first half of the year and the review has given rise to further projects which arecontinuing.
At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee 5 2 Strong technical performance in 2015.
Underlying EPS broadly flat for the year.
Total 15 11 In total the Remuneration Committee in consultation with the 2015 LTIS Awards Chief Executive awarded 11 basis points out of 15 Basis Points for Awards under the LTIS made in 2015, amounted to 654,545 for performance by our Finance Director against individual targets.
John Phizackerley and 245,455 for Paul Mainwaring.
The awards have a normal vesting date of 30 June 2018 and are subject to The Remuneration Committee therefore determined the Finance malus as described in the Directors Remuneration Policy and Directors Bonus for 2015 would be 0.785% of Bonus Pool Operating thefollowing performance conditions: Profit and has awarded a 2015 bonus of 633,495.
The vesting of half of the awards is subject to relative TSR Executive Directors are required to invest 50% of the post-tax performance over the three years to 31 December 2017, with bonus into Company shares, deferred for three years.
This assists minimum vesting of 25% of the awards if the percentile ranking inbuilding towards the minimum shareholding requirement, ofthe Companys TSR over the respective period relative to the whichis 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 150% TSRofall other companies comprising, at the start of the relevant ofbase salary for the Finance Director.
performance period, the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts is50th and with maximum vesting of 100% if it is 25th or better.
Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS The vesting of one quarter of the awards is subject to average Vesting of 2013 LTIS cash flow before debt repayments and dividends performance The proportion of the 2013 LTIS that has vested is shown in the over the three years to 31 December 2017 Cash flow, with remuneration table on page 41.
75% of the LTIS award made in minimum vesting of 25% if Cash flow equals or exceeds 2013 were subject to performance conditions measured to 40mand maximum vesting of 100% if Cash flow equals or December 2015 as follows: exceeds 150m.
Paul Mainwaring The vesting of one quarter of the awards is subject to return onequity performance compared with the Companys IDB TSR Cash flow Total competitors over the three years to 31 December 2017 or % vested 34.73% 48.60% equivalent financial year in respect of competitors, with minimum vesting of 25% if the Companys ROE equals the Value of Award due 34,730 24,300 59,030 average ROE of competitors and maximum vesting of 100% iftheCompanys ROE is three times the average or better.
The remaining 25% of the unvested 2013 LTIS relating Return on Equity Thecompanies comprising the comparator group are BGC will be tested against performance conditions in June 2016 when the Partners Inc, ICAP plc and Compagnie Financire Tradition.
comparative data for competitor companies becomes available.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 43 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Awards under the Companys Long Term Incentive Scheme End of Nature of Threshold Performance 1 Basis Award Face Value Vesting Period John Phizackerley Cash 654,545 25% 31.12.17 Paul Mainwaring Cash 245,455 25% 31.12.17 1 Our Remuneration Policy is to make Annual Awards equivalent to the higher of aggregate base salary and 25% of the prior year aggregate variable remuneration or base salary for a new Executive Director or of Executive Directors in office at the date of the award.
forchairing acommittee increased to 10,000 per annum in Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP addition to the standard fees payable to Non-executive Directors.
There are no outstanding unvested awards under the LTIP.
Non-executive Directors acting as trustees of the Companys occupational pension scheme are entitled to an attendance fee Shareholding requirements of 1,000 per meeting.
There have been no further changes Half of the 2014 bonus awarded to each of the Executive Directors to Directors fees asreflected in the 2014 Annual Report.
was subject to a condition that the net of tax amount to be paid at the end of March 2015 would be invested in the Companys shares, Consultancy arrangements to be held for a minimum of three years.
In addition to her appointment as a Non-executive Director of This investment requirement can be met, in part or in full, by theBoard on 2 July 2015, Carol Sergeant was also engaged via the ordinary shares already held, excluding any shares already being service company Threadneedle Solutions Ltd the Consultant counted towards investment requirements in relation to previous Company to provide specialist advice regarding the operation bonus payments.
ofthe new Risk Committee for a period of six months.
Under the agreement, the Consultant Company received a fee exclusive Paul Mainwaring currently complies with the Companys overarching ofvalue added tax of 35,000 which was paid in equal monthly minimum shareholding requirements and complies with investment instalments of 5,833.33 each being 7,000 per month inclusive of requirements in respect of previously paid bonuses.
The agreement terminated on 31 December 2015.
John Phizackerley was restricted from dealing in Company Directors interests sharesfollowing the bonus payment date of 31 March 2015 as The interests all beneficial as at 31 December 2015 during the hehad access to market sensitive data.
However, following the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company, were as follows: announcement on 11 November 2015, the trading restrictions on John Phizackerley were lifted.
John Phizackerley then purchased the Director Shares required value of shares as soon as practicable thereafter to meet the shareholding requirements in place with respect to his 2014 Rupert Robson 7,000 bonus and the overarching minimum shareholding requirement John Phizackerley 42,500 applicable for Executive Directors.
Paul Mainwaring 279,741 Non-executive Directors fees Angela Knight The fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are determined by Roger Perkin theBoard and the fees paid to the Chairman are determined by theRemuneration Committee.
As announced in the 2014 Annual Stephen Pull 7,000 Report, the fees for the Chairman increased from 175,000 to David Shalders 200,000 per annum with effect from 1 March 2015.
The Non- 1 executive Directors fees were increased from 54,000 to 60,000 Carol Sergeant per annum with effect from 1 March 2015.
In addition, a fee of 5,000 per annum is paid to the Senior Independent Non-executive Notes: Director and both the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the 1 Appointed 2 July 2015 Chairman ofRemuneration Committees also each received an annual fee of7,500 in respect of the added responsibility of chairing a committee.
With effect from 1 March 2016 the fees 44 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The following information is not subject to audit.
Voting at the 2015 AGM At the AGM held on 6 May 2015 the following votes were cast in respect of the Report on Directors Remuneration: Vote on Approval of the Report of Directors Remuneration as below: For Against Votes withheld Number % Number % Number 110,546,490 63.94 62,346,192 36.06 23,495,949 Notes: 1 Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast.
A Vote withheld is not a vote in law.
2 Votes For includes those giving the Chairman discretion.
Fees payable to PwC during the year amounted to 24,000 and Shareholder voting at the 2015 AGM toNew Bridge Street 23,538.
The Committee are satisfied that At our AGM in 2015 36.06% of votes were cast against our these fees are appropriate for the work undertaken.
Prior to our AGM the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee wrote to shareholders and their Herbert Smith Freehills LLP and Allen & Overy LLP provided advice agentsabout the rationale for the Committees decision to on law and regulation in relation to employee incentive matters.
payanadditional bonus to our incoming Chief Executive, Both firms also provide general legal advice to the Company.
amatterthat had been of concern to some shareholders.
Outside directorships Following the significant number of votes against the Directors Neither John Phizackerley nor Paul Mainwaring has any outside Remuneration Report at last years AGM, the Chairman of the directorships from which they received any remuneration in 2015.
Remuneration Committee wrote to our largest shareholders and their agents explaining that the Committee expected for 2015 to Performance graph award bonuses for 2015 in relation to agreed performance criteria A graph depicting the Companys total shareholder return in and not to exercise its discretion with respect to exceptional comparison to other companies in the FTSE 250 index excluding circumstances.
Subsequently a number of follow up meetings investment trusts in the seven years to 31December 2015 is andconversations were held to establish that this concern had shown below: been addressed.
400 For 2015, the Remuneration Committee undertook a comprehensive performance assessment in the awarding of bonuses for our Executive Directors in accordance with our 350 policyand commitments.
There have been no additional .
300 2016 AGM Copies of the Executive Directors service agreements, the 250 Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available forinspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours and will be available for shareholders 200 toview at the 2016 AGM.
Advice provided to the Remuneration Committee 150 In the early part of 2015, PwC was retained by the Committee asitsprincipal and only material external adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
During the summer of 2015, the 100 Committee undertook an exercise to review its advisory relationships.
From 1 September 2015 New Bridge Street an Aon 50 Hewitt company was appointed as the principal and only material Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 external advisor to the Remuneration Committee effective Tullett Prebon plc FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts 1 September 2015.
In September, New Bridge Street provided training to the The Board believes that the above index is most relevant as it Remuneration Committee on the duties of the Remuneration comprises listed companies of similar size.
Committee, current trends in remuneration policies and possible regulatory developments.
In addition, New Bridge Street advised on some aspects of our Remuneration Policy and practice.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 45 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Chief Executive remuneration history Total Remuneration Annual Bonus LTIP Year ended Name 000 % of max payout % of max vesting 1 31 December 2015 John Phizackerley 2,250 80% N A 2 31 December 2014 John Phizackerley 720 NA N A 3 Terry Smith 433 NA 31 December 2013 Terry Smith 2,856 51% 31 December 2012 Terry Smith 3,153 N A 31 December 2011 Terry Smith 4,929 N A 45% 31 December 2010 Terry Smith 4,344 N A 31 December 2009 Terry Smith 4,652 N A Notes: 1 % represents the overall % score achieved on individual performance targets 2 For the 4 month period from 1 September 2014 3 For the 8 month period from 1 January 2014 31 August 2014 4 Variable remuneration was uncapped in the years 2009 2012 Change in Chief Executive remuneration % change in annualised % change % change bonus Salary Benefits payment 1 2 Chief Executive 0% 0% 5% 3 3 Senior Management 5% 0% 7% This table shows the change of the CEOs fixed and variable remuneration compared to senior management.
Notes: 1 John Phizackerley has not received a Base Salary increase.
2 Represents the change in annualised bonus payment.
2014 bonus was 536,667 for a period 4 months annualised to 1,610,001.
3 Represents a like for like figure looking at senior managers employed throughout 2014 and 2015.
A large proportion of the Groups remuneration is payable to Brokers, who earn a significant proportion of their income as bonus based ona formula linked to revenue.
The Remuneration Committee considered that comparison of the Chief Executives remuneration with that of Senior Management would accordingly be more meaningful than comparison with all employees.
Relative importance of spend on remuneration The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend payments: m 2015 2014 % change 1 Employee remuneration 532.4 490.4 9 2 Shareholder dividends paid 41.0 36.7 12 Notes: 1 Employee remuneration includes employers social security costs and pension contributions 2 Shareholder dividends comprises the dividends paid 46 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Remuneration Committee took into account general practices Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016 in the parts of the financial services sector in which the Company In 2016 we expect to start work on developing a new operates, and in particular those of the Companys competitors Remuneration Policy with the intention of aligning performance which include BGC Partners Inc. ICAP plc and Compagnie Financire objectives with key milestones in the integration of IGBB.
These practices are characterised by high levels of the acquisition is expected to complete this year the timing is variable remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee concluded uncertain and it is therefore unclear whether we will apply our that it is in the best interests of the Company and shareholders current Remuneration Policy for all or part of 2016 or seek topay remuneration in line with market practice in the sectors shareholder approval during 2016 for a new policy for the enlarged inwhich the Company operates.
We intend to seek advice from shareholders when the timing of completion becomes clearer.
In 2016, our Executive The Companys Remuneration Policy is designed to attract, Directors will again be set individual bonus targets either within motivate and retain staff with the necessary skills and experience our current approved range of operating profits or as part of a new to deliver the strategy, in order to achieve the Companys objective.
A range of individual performance targets covering delivery against strategic objectives, leadership, people Risk development and culture will be disclosed retrospectively.
The Remuneration Committee considered the relationship between incentives and risk when approving the Remuneration Policy which As part of the agreed terms to acquire IGBB, at completion Ken will apply throughout the Group.
Pigaga will be appointed to the Board as Chief Operating Officer.
Our Remuneration Policy permits an increase in the maximum Details of the Companys key risks and risk management are set aggregate Executive Directors bonus pool to 5% of Reported outin the Strategic Report of this Annual Report on pages 19 to 24.
Operating Profit to accommodate additional Executive Directors.
The majority of transactions are brokered on a Name Passing basis The share of Bonus Pool Operating Profit available to our current where the business is not a counterparty to a trade.
Commissions earned on these activities are received monthly in Base salaries for our Chief Executive and Finance Director will cash.
The business does not take any trading risk and does not remain unchanged in 2016.
In addition, the Remuneration holdprincipal trading positions.
The business only holds financial Committee expects to make a further LTIS award on the terms instruments for identified buyers and sellers in matching trades andwith the performance conditions as outlined in the Policy.
which are generally settled within 1-3 days.
The business does not retain any contingent market or counterparty risks.
The business The policies set out in the policy table in the Remuneration Policy does not have valuation issues in measuring its profits.
section of the Report on Directors Remuneration will apply in 2016unless approval is sought from shareholders during 2016 The Remuneration Committee concluded that the Companys foranew Remuneration Policy for the enlarged Group.
Remuneration Policy reflects the low risk profile of the Company, isconsistent with and promotes sound and effective risk Directors Remuneration Policy management, and does not encourage risk taking.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by a The Remuneration Committee considers that the Companys shareholders binding vote at the 2014 AGM and it is not Remuneration Policy is consistent with the measures set out in proposedthat the current policy is revised at the 2016 AGM.
thebusinesss compliance manuals relating to conflicts of interest.
TheRemuneration Policy approved at the 2014 AGM can also befound on the Companys website www.
com, The Companys policy is to ensure that variable remuneration is andpages 35-36 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013. notpaid through vehicles or methods that facilitate avoidance of the Remuneration Code.
Background In reviewing and approving the general principles of the Companys Policy table Remuneration Policy which applies throughout the Group, the The policy which has been applied in respect of Executive Director Remuneration Committee took account of the Companys goal to and Non-executive Director remuneration is summarised in the become the worlds most trusted source of liquidity in hybrid OTC table below.
The policy set out in this table is that which is currently markets and the best operator in global hybrid voice broking.
The in practice and which was subject to a binding vote of shareholders Remuneration Committee was also mindful that the Groups at the 2014 AGM.
For the purposes of the 2013 Regulations, the strategy to achieve that objective is to continue to develop its policy applies from the 2014 AGM.
business, operating as an intermediary in the worlds major wholesale over-the-counter and exchange traded financial andcommodity markets, with the scale and breadth to deliver superior performance and returns, underpinned by strong financialmanagement disciplines and without actively taking credit andmarket risk.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 47 Report on Directors Remuneration continued How remuneration supports the Companys short and long term strategic objectives Operation Maximum payable Performance framework Recovery withholding Executive Directors Fixed remuneration To provide a level of Paid monthly in arrears.
Fixed remuneration None None fixedremuneration Reviewed periodically to willnot be reviewed reflecting the scopeof ensure not significantly until2017.
individual responsibilities out of line with to attractand retain the market.
highcalibre individuals Benefits To provide basic benefits Medical cover and No new benefits None None but otherwise to avoid participation in any willbeintroduced provision of benefits schemes for all UK duringtheterm of this employees such Remuneration Policy, astheGroup life unless such benefits insurancescheme.
aremade available to allUK employees.
Relocation or the temporary provision of accommodation may beoffered where the Company requires a Director to relocate.
The Remuneration Committee may determine that Executive Directors should receive other reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice.
Pension To make basic Membership of a defined 6% of fixed remuneration None None pension provision contribution pension up to acapset at scheme.
Annual discretionary bonus Aim is to motivate and Allocation of pool takes The maximum aggregate Pool is 2.5-3% of Clawback of the element retain Executive Directors, account of individual Executive Directors bonus Groupreported of bonus subject to consistent with the risk contribution and relative is3% of Group reported operatingprofit, provided investment requirement appetite determined by responsibilities.
No payment operating profit, rising to operating profit exceeds in the event of material the Board and thereby to is made if theRemuneration 5% in the event that one athreshold calculated as misstatement of results achieve superior returns Committee is not satisfied or more new Executive theweighted average cost for the period to for shareholders.
ofcapital times the whichthebonus related provides a direct link No contractual entitlement Operating profit may not averagecapital employed.
which caused the bonus between the achievement toa bonus if the Executive exceed 150% of the Inexceptional tobe paid at too high a of annual business Director is notin operating profit used to circumstances payments level or if an Executive performance targets employment or isunder calculate the previous may be made outside this Directors conduct is andreward notice on the payment date.
Adjustments may found to amount to gross exceptional circumstances be madeinrelation to misconduct and or fraud, The shareholding Directors must invest 50% payments maybe made .
wilful dishonesty or requirements align ofpost-tax annualbonuses outside this range.
Directors interests intheCompanys shares Adjustments may bemade The pool may be extended withshareholders forthree years the in relation to significant to a maximum of 5% of investment requirement.
reported operating profit This investment to accommodate one or requirement can be met, in more new Executive part or in full, by ordinary Directors.
shares already held, excluding any shares In such circumstances, already beingcounted the existing Executive towardsinvestment Directors will not be requirements in relation to entitledto participate previous bonus payments.
48 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information How remuneration supports the Companys short and long term strategic objectives Operation Maximum payable Performance framework Recovery withholding Minimum shareholding Aligns Directors interests Directors must hold a None None None with shareholders by minimum number of the focusing on longer term Companys ordinary shareholder returns shares equivalent to 300% of base salary in respect of the Chief Executive and 150% of base salary for all other Executive Directors.
Shares acquired to meetthe investment requirement attaching to annual bonuses can be used to meet this requirement.
LTIS Aligns Directors interests Annual awards equivalent Maximum is as described Performance conditions The level of vesting of an with shareholders by to the higher of aggregate in the Operation column.
are measured over award may be reduced, focusingon longer base salary and 25% of aperiod of at least including to nil, in the termshareholder returns theprior year aggregate threeyears.
event of a material variable remuneration misstatement of results orbase salary for a new Performance conditions that caused the LTIS award Executive Director of are 50% based on TSR to be granted at too high Executive Directors in relative to FTSE 250 alevel or if an Executive office at the date of companies excluding Directors conduct is theaward.
Awards are investment trusts, 25% found to amount to gross satisfied in cash when all based on average cash misconduct and or fraud, relevant performance flow before dividends and wilful dishonesty or conditions have debt repayments and 25% accounting malfeasance.
based on ROE relative to IDB competitors.
For each element of theaward, vesting starts at 25% at threshold performance rising on astraightline basis to 100% for maximum performance.
Non-executive Directors Fees To attract high calibre, Paid monthly in Aggregate annual fees None None experienced Nonarrears.
Periodically limited to 700,000 inthe executive Directors benchmarked againstother Articles of Association.
UK listedcompanies of comparable size and activities.
Additional feesfor additional responsibilities of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, forchairing each of the Audit and Remuneration Committees or other services performed such asacting as a trustee ofaCompany pensionscheme.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 49 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Bonus Plan with participants located in London, New York, New Notes to the policy table: Jersey, Frankfurt and Singapore.
As part of the introduction of Performance measures theDeferred Bonus Plan, a Special Award was granted to these The annual discretionary bonus payable to Executive Directors employees.
These grants will also be made by April 2016 along iscalculated as a percentage of reported operating profit.
The similar terms as the main grant save for a two year holding period.
operation of the Executive Director bonus scheme was changed in During 2013, the Remuneration Committee introduced a cap 2013 following the Remuneration Committees review of Executive Director remuneration and shareholder consultation.
Operating onExecutive Directors bonuses in response to requests from profit is a key performance indicator, is a clear and simple metric shareholders.
However, the Remuneration Committee does not and was chosen as it links remuneration directly with business believe that the formal capping of bonuses for Senior Management and Brokers is consistent with the delivery of enhanced returns to performance.
The percentage range of profit allocated to the bonusscheme was chosen to provide an acceptable level of shareholders and accordingly no caps have been introduced on variable remuneration for the Executive Directors while at the Senior Managements or Brokers bonuses at this time.
We will same time delivering value to shareholders.
continue to review this matter in light of any future changes to theRemuneration Code.
The introduction of the new LTIS in 2013 also followed the review of Executive Director remuneration referred to above.
Executive Directors variable remuneration is also subject to a requirement that at least 50% net of tax of bonus payments must Performance measures used for the LTIS were chosen by the be invested in the Companys shares to be held for a minimum Remuneration Committee, with advice having been provided by PwC period of at least three years.
and following consultation with significant shareholders.
Therelative TSR measure had been used as a metric for the LTIP forseveral years Clawback arrangements apply to this element of variable and despite its many well recognised limitations, shareholders were remuneration for the duration of the investment requirement.
keen for it to be retained as a substantial component of the metrics for TheRemuneration Committee has concluded that given the the LTIS.
Half of LTIS awards are therefore subject to the relative TSR Companys low risk profile and the fact that this is not consistent performance measure.
However, the Remuneration Committee was with market practice in the Companys key competitor also concerned to incorporate new metrics to target and reward good organisations, neither deferral nor clawback arrangements operating performance measured by reference to the Companys cash areapplied to variable remuneration paid to other staff.
flow generation, and return on equity compared with the Companys The LTIS has been put in place for the benefit of the Executive IDB competitors.
Both metrics are regarded by the Board as key Directors only.
One quarter of LTIS awards are accordingly subject to these performance conditions respectively.
The targets were Remuneration policies for Brokers set, having regard to recent performance and at a level which would The Companys remuneration policy for Brokers is based on be seen to be achievable but at the same time could be expected to theprinciple that remuneration is directly linked to financial bechallenging.
performance, generally at a desk team level, and is calculated inaccordance with formulae linked to revenue.
These formulae Policy on Directors remuneration compared with take into account the fixed costs of the Brokers: variable employees generally remuneration payments are therefore based on the profits that As a general rule, the same principles are applied to Directors theBrokers generate for the business together with an assessment fixedremuneration, pension contributions and benefits as are of individual performance and conduct against core Company applied to employees throughout the organisation.
A competitive values Honesty, Integrity, Respect and Excellence.
Initial contract level of fixed remuneration is paid to all employees taking into payments are only paid upfront when a claw-back provision is account their responsibilities and experience and minimal pension included in the contract of employment.
Typically, Brokers receive provision and benefits are provided, the Board considering that afixed salary paid regularly throughout the year, with a significant employees are best placed to determine priorities for funds set proportion of variable remuneration dependent on their revenue, aside forremuneration.
conduct and performance, which is paid after the revenue has been fully received in cash.
There are a number of different bonus schemes in operation throughout the Group for Brokers, management and other Remuneration policies for Control Functions employees.
Brokers bonus schemes are described below: all The Companys remuneration policy for Control Functions is that otherbonuses are generally discretionary.
In addition, a Deferred remuneration is adequate to attract qualified and experienced Bonus Plan has been introduced for Senior Managers impacting staff, is in accordance with the achievement of objectives linked the2015 bonus year.
Under this Plan, employees identified as totheir functions, and is independent of the performance of Senior Managers had 20% of their discretionary 2015 bonus award thebusiness areas they support.
Employees in such functions deferred into equity for a three year period.
The grants of equity report through an organisation structure that is separate to, and will be made by April 2016 and are subject to forfeiture, in whole or independent from, the business units.
Heads of Control Functions in part, in the event the employee resigns or employment is are designated as Remuneration Code staff and accordingly their terminated for gross misconduct as defined in the Employee remuneration is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee as Handbook.
Fifty-two employees participated in the 2015 Deferred partof the Senior Manager bonus review undertaken in January each year.
50 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy Executive Directors service agreements and loss The total remuneration for each of the Executive Directors ofofficeentitlements for a minimum, target and maximum performance for 2016 Effective 18 January 2016, the Chief Executives contract may is represented in the charts below: beterminated by either party on the expiry of 6 months written notice by either party save in circumstances justifying summary John Phizackerley termination or by making payment in lieu of notice at the 4000 Companys election.
The Company will consider the scope for 3,838 requiring the Executive Director to mitigate his loss when taking 17% account of all the circumstances surrounding the termination of employment.
The Executive Director would also be entitled to accrued but untaken holiday.
3000 2,718 The Finance Directors contract may be terminated by either party on the expiry of 12 months written notice by either party save 12% incircumstances justifying summary termination or by making payment in lieu of notice at the Companys election.
The Company 2000 will consider the scope for requiring the Executive Director to 69% mitigate his loss when taking account of all the circumstances surrounding the termination of employment.
The Executive 68% Director would also be entitled to accrued but untaken holiday.
The contracts do not provide for termination payments in excess 1000 ofsalary and contractual benefits.
Post-termination restrictive 550 covenants also apply to each Executive Director.
20% 14% In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of 100% office, any employee including the Executive Directors may 0 haveadditional statutory and or common law rights to certain Minimum Target Maximum additional payments, for example in a redundancy situation.
Basic salary and bene ts Bonus LTIS When determining payments for loss of office, the Company will Paul Mainwaring take account of all relevant circumstances on a case by case basis including but not limited to : the contractual notice provisions 4000 andoutstanding annual leave entitlement: the best interests of theCompany: whether the Executive Director has presided over anorderly handover: the contribution of the Executive Director to thesuccess of the Company during their tenure: and the need to compromise any claims that the Executive Director may have or to 3000 pay the Executive Directors legal costs on a settlement agreement.
The LTIS rules provide for an award to lapse in all circumstances where an Executive Director ceases to hold office or employment with a Group company other than death, unless the Remuneration 2000 Committee determines otherwise, in which case any award would vest to the extent that the performance conditions had been met 1,595 and the extent that the performance period had elapsed.
15% 1,154 Non-executive Directors appointment letters 11% 1000 The Non-executive Directors serve under letters of appointment 63% which are terminable on the earliest of the Director not being 59% re-elected at an AGM, removed as a director or required to vacate 350 office under the Articles of Association, on resignation, at the 100% 30% 22% request of the Board or subject to 6 months notice for the 0 Chairman or 3 months notice for the other Non-executive Minimum Target Maximum Directors.
The notice periods were adjusted from 12 months Basic salary and bene ts Bonus LTIS to3and 6 months respectively in October 2015.
As the variable remuneration calculation is based on a percentageof reported operating profit, to avoid including a profitforecast the Board has prepared the above illustrations usingthe Bonus Pool Operating Profit for 2015 capped at 150% and125% for the calculation of the 2016 maximum and target payouts respectively.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015 | 51 000 000 Report on Directors Remuneration continued Recruitment of Directors The Remuneration Committees approach to setting remuneration for new Executive Directors is to ensure that the Company pays market rates, with reference to internal pay levels, the external market, location of the executive and remuneration received from the previous employer.
Salary will be provided in line with market rates, and the Remuneration Committee reserves discretion to offer appropriate pension and benefit arrangements, which may include the continuation of benefits received in a previous role.
On-going variable pay awards for a newly appointed Executive Director will be as described in the Policy table, subject to the same maximum opportunities.
It is not currently intended that future service contracts for Executive Directors would contain terms differing materially from those summarised in this report, including with respect to notice provisions.
The Remuneration Committee may consider offering additionalcash or share-based payments to buy-out existing awards forfeited by a new Executive Director when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Any such buy-out payments would mirror so far as possible the remuneration lost when leaving the former employer.
The Remuneration Committee may avail itself of the current Listing Rule exemption to make such buy-out awards where doing so is necessary to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of the relevant individual.
Relocation payments may also be set, within limits to be determined by the Remuneration Committee, where considered appropriate and in the Companys best interests to do so.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Group will honour any contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director.
The fee payable to a new Non-executive Director will be in line with the fee structure for Non-executive Directors in place at the date ofappointment.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Stephen Pull Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 March 2016 52 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2015
