I II: Corporate Governance III Remuneration Committee Report CURRENT MEMBERS: MELANIE GEE Melanie Gee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Alan Ferguson Mary Jo Jacobi Rick Menell DEAR SHAREHOLDER As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present this 2015 Remuneration Report, incorporating our proposed Directors Remuneration Policy.
In my introductory letter to the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report I highlighted the difficulties the Remuneration Committee experienced in setting challenging, yet motivating, targets for both the 2015 annual bonus and, in particular, our 2015 performance share awards, given the unprecedented end market environment for both our Oil & Gas and Minerals divisions.
The challenges and predictability of our end markets have not improved during the course of the year.
As a result, the Committee has conducted a detailed review of our Executive Director and senior management remuneration policy as we have questioned the effectiveness of our current remuneration arrangements from incentivisation, retention and alignment perspectives.
This letter sets out the changes we propose to our current remuneration policy for adoption at our 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM in order to seek to address the issues highlighted above.
In summary, for all of our senior executives including Executive Directors, approximately 260 individuals, we wish to have a cohesive team remuneration structure that comprises primarily annual bonus and restricted stock awards.
Since 2014, this is the approach that we have used for about 75 of our US based executives.
For Executive Directors and our most senior executives we will retain an element of performance share awards, but at a much lower level of grant.
Shareholders will be invited to approve the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy at the Companys AGM on 28 April 2016.
2015 REMUNERATION OUTCOMES The salaries of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director increased by 3.4% on 1 April 2015, as previously disclosed.
However, as part of the Group-wide cost cutting programme that followed in 2015, the Executive Directors and a large number of other individuals at Head Office waived 5% of their salaries from 1 August through to the year end.
The 2015 annual bonus had three performance metrics 60% was based on the achievement of Normalised Profit Before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA, 20% cash flow and 20% personal performance targets.
Given the challenging market environment, the NPBTA and cash flow elements of the annual bonus have not paid out.
The Committee reviewed personal performance of each of the Chief Executive and Finance Director against their respective individual performance objectives, which were set at the beginning of the year.
All individual performance objectives were measurable and the Committee concluded that this 20% element has been satisfied in full.
No performance or matching shares will vest in March 2016 under the 2013 LTIP awards, as the performance conditions required were not met.
Awards were based on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and growth in Earnings per Share EPS performance conditions over the three year period to 31 December 2015.
The Companys TSR performance over the period was below median relative to the comparator group, this being the threshold vesting level, and EPS growth was also below the threshold level of 5% per annum.
In summary, this means that the total remuneration for the Chief Executive and Finance Director for 2015 was 27% and 23% less than in 2014 respectively.
REMUNERATION STRUCTURE FOR 2016 During the year, the Committee has reviewed the remuneration policy for our top executives approximately 260 individuals including the Executive Directors.
The objective of the review was to enhance the policy so that it could better respond to the uncertainty in our end markets, address retention concerns, incentivise executives and promote alignment to shareholders through exposure to equity.
The Weir Group PLC 95 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued The proposed remuneration policy for the Executive Directors in 2016 is summarised in the following chart: Element Annual Bonus Restricted Share Awards Performance Share Awards Performance NPBTA 40% None EPS 33.3% measures Cash Flow 20% ROCE 33.3% Order Input 20% TSR 33.3% Personal 20% Time horizon 70% paid after year end One-third vesting over years 3, 4 and 5 3 year vesting 2 year holding period 30% deferred and released in thirds over 3 years Maximum CEO 150% of salary 2015: 150% 90% of salary 2015: 0% 75% 2015: 250% opportunity FD COO 125% of salary 2015: 125% 80% of salary 2015: 0% 45% 2015: 200% How it meets Incentivises through use of Promotes long-term alignment Incentives through longer-term objectives annual targets Addresses retention concerns performance 30% payment in shares gives alignment Alignment in requiring superior financial performance This same structure will apply to members of the Group Executive, except that for the Group Executive, restricted share awards will cliff vest after three years, and performance share awards will not have a two year holding period as is in place for the Executive Directors.
For the management below the Group Executive, the structure cascades down with the following differences: 1.
Annual bonus business and divisional measures will be used and there will be no deferral in shares: 2.
Restricted share awards will vest pro rata over three years with no holding period replicating the payment schedule of the Executive Directors and the Group Executives deferred bonuses: and 3.
Performance share awards will not typically be used for these individuals.
We will control fixed pay during 2016, but not at the risk of losing key management.
Although the Executive Directors will not receive a salary increase on 1 April 2016, there will be a budget to award salary increases to other executives.
Further, we are keeping to the principle that the pension provision for Executive Directors will remain the same as for other senior employees at a maximum of 12% of salary.
Finally, we are seeking shareholder approval for an all employee Sharesave scheme so that our staff can also choose to have an exposure to the Companys shares.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Committee welcomes the views of shareholders on remuneration on an ongoing basis.
In 2015, the Committee consulted extensively with our largest shareholders on changes to our remuneration policy.
We are grateful for the constructive input from a number of our shareholders and their representative bodies during the consultation.
Within the UK market the Investment Association is leading a working group on the simplification of executive pay, which has not yet published its initial report.
A consequence is that during our consultation we received a wide range of views both on simplification and the structure of long-term incentives and our proposals reflect a middle course based on the feedback received, whilst ensuring that the remuneration policy meets our objectives.
It is therefore more complex than the views expressed by a number of our shareholders and we also recognise that we are one of the first companies to seek shareholder support for a restricted stock programme that applies to all executives.
We support the drive for simplification and will keep our policy under review so that it responds to market and best practice developments as these emerge.
We continue to value all shareholders views on our remuneration arrangements and I can be contacted via the Company Secretary.
We look forward to receiving your support for our new proposals at our AGM.
MELANIE GEE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Weir Group PLC 96 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Directors Remuneration Policy DIRECTORS POLICY TABLE The Groups overarching remuneration policy is designed to ensure that remuneration supports the Groups strategy and business objectives.
The policy and practice have been developed to support the creation of value for shareholders, drive appropriate behaviours and incentivise outperformance, while being clearly linked to both individual and corporate performance.
The Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders in setting this policy and has considered best practice guidelines from shareholders and representative bodies.
The Committee has adopted a set of principles that are used as the basis against which remuneration arrangements have been established.
The Groups remuneration principles are that reward should enable the Group to: attract, motivate and retain senior executives with the necessary abilities to manage and develop the Groups activities successfully for the benefit of shareholders: clearly align remuneration outcomes with the long-term interests of the Group and its shareholders: drive appropriate behaviours that are in line with the culture of the Group and focus senior executives on the critical business objectives by rewarding them against challenging performance criteria: and provide a significant part of potential reward through performance based incentive plans.
Subject to approval at the AGM, this policy is expected to apply for three years from 1 January 2016.
BASE SALARY How the element supports our remuneration principles Maximum limit The provision of a competitive base salary as part of an overall It is expected that salary increases for Executive Directors will be made compensation package enables the Group to attract and retain broadly in line with salary increases applied to UK employees or the talented leaders.
relevant jurisdiction if an Executive Director is based outside the UK.
Operation Higher increases may apply if there is a change in role or responsibility, Reviewed annually with effect from 1 April.
Set by reference to the individual is relatively new in role, or there is significant variance market practice for a similar role in a peer group of global companies to the market.
Any significant salary increases will be appropriately of a similar size and complexity: personal performance: the wider explained.
The maximum salary level for each Executive Director employee context: and economic and labour market conditions.
is set by reference to a peer group of FTSE 51-150 companies and appropriate overseas comparators of similar size and complexity.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to change the peer group during the life of this policy if it is no longer considered appropriate.
BENEFITS AND PENSION How the element supports our remuneration principles Maximum limit Executive Directors are given the same pension and benefit packages The value of relevant benefits will be determined by the cost of the as other senior executives thus promoting the team ethos.
As the cost of providing such insurance benefits varies according to premium rates and the cost of other Operation benefits is dependent on market rates and other factors, there is no Benefits include, but are not limited to: Group health care: car formal maximum monetary value.
Car allowance will normally be no allowance: travel allowance: and death in service insurance.
The Company may also meet certain mobility costs and pay Executive Directors are eligible for a contribution into the pension plan additional tax arising due to an international assignment, and may or a cash allowance of up to 12% of salary per annum.
also provide for long term disability benefits.
Additional benefits and any associated tax may be provided where required by Performance measures legislation or to align the package with market practice where Not applicable.
these are not significant in value.
Directors and Officers Liability insurance will also be provided.
Pension policy is aligned to senior individuals within the wider workforce.
The Weir Group PLC 97 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued DIRECTORS POLICY TABLE CONTINUED ANNUAL BONUS How the element supports our remuneration principles Maximum limit To reward the achievement of stretching Group performance for the The maximum annual bonus is 150% of salary.
Presently, the Chief current year, supporting our strategy of delivering sustainable growth Executive is eligible for this and for the other Executive Directors the in our key markets.
Operation All bonus metrics are calibrated with payment on a straight line basis The annual bonus is based on annual performance against financial, between threshold 20% of maximum bonus payable and stretch.
Performance measures Targets are set at the beginning of the performance year which runs The measures, as well as the weightings of these measures, will from the start to the end of each financial period.
depend on the strategic focus of the Company in any given year.
For 2016, the financial metrics are Group Normalised Profit before 30% of any bonus is payable in shares subject to a restriction on sale, Tax and Amortisation NPBTA, cash flow and order input.
one third of which are released each year over a three year period.
Executive Directors are entitled to vote such shares and to any No more than 20% of the annual bonus will be based on personal dividends arising from the date of receipt.
performance targets, which can include safety and environmental measures.
Malus and clawback applies under circumstances as set out in the notes to the policy table.
The Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to alter the measures and or targets during the performance period if it believes the original measures and or targets are no longer appropriate.
The Committee also has discretion in exceptional circumstances to alter the payout levels of an award at the end of the performance period if it believes this will better reflect the underlying performance of the Company but in no circumstances will exceed the maximum bonus potential.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 2014 LTIP How the element supports our remuneration principles Maximum limit The restricted share element addresses our retention goals and aligns The approved LTIP rules contain a maximum combined limit of awards executives to shareholders through long term share ownership.
of 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
This is supported by a normal maximum limit in the rules of 250% of salary.
The performance share element incentivises executives to achieve growth through long term financial performance measures which are In light of the Committees desire to use restricted share awards for all critical to delivering our strategy.
executives, it has decided that over the intended three year life of this approved remuneration policy, in the normal course of events, it will not Operation grant restricted share awards or performance share awards greater Two types of awards can be granted under the LTIP: than 100% of salary each to any Executive Director each year.
1. restricted share awards: and 2. performance share awards.
In 2016, and subject to shareholder approval of the remuneration policy at the AGM, it is intended that the following grants will be made shortly For Executive Directors, the performance share awards vest after after the AGM: three years and are then subject to a two year holding period, and Chief Executive: 90% of salary restricted share award and 75% of the restricted share awards vest one third in each of years three, salary performance share award.
Other Executive Directors: 80% of salary restricted share award and 45% of salary performance share award.
Participants are entitled to dividend equivalents between award and vesting, paid at vesting in respect of awards that vest.
Performance measures For performance share awards, the three year performance measures For both types of award, the Remuneration Committee may exercise will be equally weighted between: a discretion to reduce the number of shares subject to an award to earnings per share EPS growth: nil, if appropriate in circumstances where a the corporate financial return on capital employed ROCE in excess of the Companys performance was at such a poor level due to under-performance of Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC : and the management team such that no dividend could be declared: or b relative total shareholder return TSR.
under any of the circumstances where the Committee invokes its malus and clawback powers against that individual.
For each measure, 25% of the corresponding element vests at threshold and 100% at maximum, with vesting calculated on a straight Malus and clawback applies under circumstances as set out in the line basis.
If events happen which cause the Committee to determine notes to the policy table.
that the performance measures and targets would no longer achieve their original purpose, then the Committee has discretion to substitute or vary these measures and targets.
The Committee will only take such a course of action where it considers it to be in the best interests of the shareholders.
Restricted share awards do not have performance conditions.
The Weir Group PLC 98 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III ALL EMPLOYEE SHARESAVE SCHEME How the element supports our remuneration principles Maximum limit To enable all employees, including Executive Directors, to build an The maximum monthly limit for the Sharesave scheme is currently interest in Weir shares.
Operation Performance measures Subject to approval at the 2016 AGM, Executive Directors may None.
participate in the new Sharesave scheme.
Executive Directors will participate on exactly the same terms as other employees.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES How the element supports our remuneration principles The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually and has the To ensure the interests of the Executive Directors remain in line with flexibility in the application of this policy to take into account particular those of shareholders.
Operation Expected level of share ownership Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding in the The shareholding guideline is as follows: Company over a five year period.
Chief Executive: 200% of base salary.
Other Executive Directors: 150% of base salary.
It is intended that this is met by Executive Directors retaining 50% of deferred bonus shares, restricted shares and performance shares received, after the deduction of applicable taxes, until the requirement is met.
All shares beneficially owned by an executive and shares subject to a restriction on sale count towards achieving these guidelines.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES How the element supports our remuneration principles Maximum limit To attract and retain experienced and skilled Non-Executive Directors.
Increases are effective in April and any planned increases in fees will take into account general increases across the Group along with Operation market practice.
Fees will be reviewed annually by reference to companies of similar size and complexity, economic and labour market conditions as well The maximum limit of Non-Executive Director fees is prescribed in the as time commitment and responsibilities.
Articles of Association and is set at 750,000 in aggregate.
Additional allowances are made available to Non-Executive Directors, Performance measures where appropriate, to reflect any additional time commitment The fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are not or duties.
The Company may also provide medical insurance and may reimburse Non-Executive Directors for expenses and any associated tax.
NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE 1.
Annual bonus The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee.
The performance targets for the financial element of the annual bonus are set in the context of consensus forecasts and the internal budget.
The Committee is of the view that the performance targets are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose these targets on a prospective basis.
The performance targets will normally be retrospectively disclosed after the end of the relevant financial period in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
There may be cases where the Committee is of the view that some of the performance targets for the individual element are commercially sensitive and disclosure is not in the interests of shareholders.
If applicable, this will be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
From 2017, bonus shares will be released one third each year over a three year period, rather than being released in one tranche after three years, in order to support retention of executives.
LTIP The Committee has selected the performance measures on the performance share awards to reward long term growth.
The EPS measure used for the LTIP is based on the adjusted earnings per fully paid ordinary share in the capital of the Company calculated on such basis as the Committee may specify.
The ROCE measure used for the LTIP is based on earnings before interest and tax divided by capital employed.
The performance targets are determined annually by the Committee.
In setting targets the Committee considers the Companys operating environment and internal and external growth forecasts.
The Weir Group PLC 99 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE CONTINUED 2.
LTIP continued The calibration of the performance measures on performance share awards will be disclosed prospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year.
Restricted shares do not have performance measures.
Although it is a feature of the LTIP, the grant of restricted shares to the Executive Directors is a change to the previously approved policy.
There is a corresponding reduction in the performance shares opportunity level.
This change is being made to support retention and alignment of executives with shareholders.
The ROCE target for the performance shares is now framed in terms of outperformance of weighted average cost of capital rather than improvement on prior year, to ensure positive returns are being generated for shareholders.
All employee Sharesave scheme It is proposed that a new all employee Sharesave scheme will be adopted for all employees, including Executive Directors, in 2016.
This element is being introduced to enhance alignment of employees with shareholders.
Malus and clawback Malus and clawback operate in respect of bonus shares subject to restriction on sale, performance share awards and restricted share awards.
These enable the Company to reduce unvested awards, to not release shares subject to restriction on sale, and to clawback the relevant value of the vested or released shares for a period of up to three years after the date of vesting or release.
Malus or clawback may be applied in certain circumstances where there is found to be a material misstatement in the audited accounts of the Group or a Group company accounts, where the executives action or conduct amounts to gross misconduct, where there is a significant detrimental reputational impact on the Company for which the executive is responsible, or where there has been a miscalculation in the number of shares that should have vested.
DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY FOR ALL EMPLOYEES The Company seeks to operate a locally driven approach to pay and benefits in all its locations, but within a consistent and cascading framework.
The remuneration structure for Executive Directors will also apply to other members of the Group Executive, except that for the Group Executive, restricted share awards will cliff vest after three years, and performance share awards will not have a two year holding period as is in place for the Executive Directors.
For the management below the Group Executive, the structure cascades down with the following changes: 1. annual bonus business and divisional measures will be used and there will be no deferral in shares: 2. restricted share awards will vest pro rata over three years with no holding period replicating the payment schedule of the Executive Directors deferred bonus: and 3. performance share awards will not typically be used for these individuals.
ELEMENTS OF OLD POLICY TO CONTINUE TO APPLY Legacy bonus shares subject to restriction on sale, deferred bonus, matching shares and other LTIP shares from historical awards made prior to the adoption of this policy will continue to pay out in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and the respective rules and guidelines for each award.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component.
On the appointment of a new Executive Director through an internal promotion, the Company will honour existing remuneration arrangements made prior to and not in contemplation of promotion, and these will continue to pay out in accordance with the respective rules and guidelines for each element of remuneration as originally set, notwithstanding that this may be inconsistent with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
Area Policy and operation Approach The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of an Executive Director externally is to take account of the individuals remuneration package in their role prior to joining the Weir Group: the market positioning of the remuneration package against the local market: and not to pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual in question.
Service contracts To recruit the best executives, the Committee may in the future agree a contractual notice period with the Executive Director which initially exceeds the standard 12 months, particularly if it is necessary to attract executives who will be required to relocate their families.
This will reduce to a 12 month rolling notice period once the individual is 12 months from the end of their initial notice period.
Remuneration The salary level, benefits, pension, annual bonus and LTIP participation will be in line with the policy table above.
The maximum limits as described in the policy table will apply, subject to the grant of any replacement awards.
The Weir Group PLC 100 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Replacement awards The Committee will consider what replacement awards if any are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director.
This includes an assessment of the awards and any other compensation and benefit items that would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards in shares and such that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
Other The Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain mobility or relocation costs, including but not limited to, temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the Companys prevailing mobility policy for senior executives.
The Committee may also agree that the Company meets the cost of relevant professional fees.
The Company shall reimburse the Executive Director for all reasonable expenses incurred as part of their recruitment.
Directors and Officers liability insurance will also be provided in line with the policy for Executive Directors.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The Boards policy on Directors service contracts, letters of appointment and termination arrangements is set out below.
This includes a description of any obligation on the Company contained or proposed to be in all Directors service contracts or letters of appointment.
The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Executive Directors service contracts As an overriding principle, it is the Boards policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with its terms, the Committee, when determining what compensation, if any, should properly be paid by the Company to the departing Executive Director, will give full consideration to the obligation of that Executive Director to mitigate any loss which they may suffer as a result of the termination of their contract.
All the Executive Directors who served during the year have service contracts with the Company.
The table below sets out the Companys policy and, except where noted, these terms also apply to existing service contracts.
Contract Executive Director Contract commencement date commencement Keith Cochrane 2 November 2009 date Dean Jenkins 1 January 2016 Jon Stanton 19 April 2010 Unexpired term The unexpired term of all Executive Directors service contracts is 12 months.
It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors have rolling service contracts.
Notice period The Executive Directors who served during the year have service contracts with the Company that provide for a minimum period of notice of: 12 months by Keith Cochrane and Dean Jenkins: 6 months by Jon Stanton: and 12 months by the Company.
The Companys policy on the setting of contractual notice periods for Executive Directors is to set a notice period of 12 months for both parties, although the Committee may in the future agree contractual notice periods which initially exceed 12 months in the circumstances described above in the Companys approach to recruitment remuneration.
The Weir Group PLC 101 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE CONTINUED Contractual Policy for future service contracts payments Executive Directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination by way of payment in lieu of notice PILON at the Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor a PILON will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Employment contracts may include PILON clauses potentially including up to 12 months base salary and the cash equivalent of 12 months contractual benefits.
There would be no contractual entitlement to receive bonus awards in respect of the notice period any award would be at the Committees absolute discretion and performance-related.
PILONs would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required for the full 12 months of their notice period.
Contracts would also allow for phased payments on termination, which allows for further reduction in payments if the individual finds alternative employment outside of the Group during the notice period.
Policy for existing service contracts The employment contracts for Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton were agreed before 27 June 2012 and contain certain provisions which it is not proposed to include in the contracts of future Directors.
The Committee reviewed the provisions in existing contracts and are comfortable that no amendments have been made to the contracts and therefore the grandfathering provisions for contracts in place prior to June 2012 apply.
The Company may make a PILON equal to 12 months salary and the cost to the Company of providing all other benefits for that period, or a sum equivalent to 10% of the individuals annual salary in respect of other benefits.
PILON will exclude pension, bonus and share related incentives.
The Company may make the PILON in instalments, subject to reduction where the individual commences alternative employment.
In addition, the Company may pay a bonus of up to 12 months subject to performance, as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The amount payable would be consistent with any performance determination made for other employees of broadly similar status or seniority.
If the departing Executive Director commences alternative employment, the Committee may reduce that payment to take account of any performance related bonus that the individual receives from the alternative employment for that period.
If the Group terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with its terms, the Company shall make a payment calculated in the same way as if it had made a PILON.
Additional policy for future and existing service contracts In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims, e. g. unfair dismissal or where agreed under a compromise or settlement agreement.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
It may include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of fees for legal and or tax advice in connection with such agreements.
The Weir Group PLC 102 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Annual bonus If the Executive Director is dismissed for gross misconduct then all entitlements will be forfeited, including any prior bonus that has been converted into shares to which the restriction on sale applies.
In all other departure cases, the existing rights are retained and in respect of any bonus delivered in shares, the restriction on sale will continue to apply unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Malus and clawback provisions will continue to apply.
An Executive Director will only be eligible to earn a bonus if he or she is an employee of the Group at the time that the Company approves the bonus outcome although at the discretion of the Committee, a pro-rated payment may be earned by an Executive Director who has retired subject to assessment of the bonus targets.
LTIP 2014 Where cessation occurs during the normal three month option exercise period, options will continue to be performance share exercisable during that period.
awards and The treatment of unvested awards for Executive Directors ceasing to be employees of the Group will depend on restricted share whether or not they are a good leaver.
Good leaver reasons include retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, awards redundancy, the sale of the individuals employing company or business, or in other circumstances that the Committee determines.
Where an Executive Director ceases to be an employee for a good leaver reason before the end of the vesting period, unvested awards will normally continue and vest on the normal vesting date, assessed against any applicable performance conditions over the normal performance period and pro-rated for time, unless the Committee in its discretion decides otherwise.
Performance shares will also normally continue to be subject to the holding period.
Where an Executive Director ceases to be an employee for any reason after the end of the vesting period but before the end of the holding period, performance shares will normally continue to be subject to the holding period.
The Committee may instead exercise its discretion to release shares before the end of the vesting period or before the end of any holding period, and if it permits this to take place during the normal vesting period, performance where relevant is measured over a shortened period and time pro-rated, unless the Committee in its discretion decides otherwise.
On death, the award vests at the date of death and can be exercised for a period of 12 months by the deceaseds estate.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated for a reason other than a good leaver reason, his unvested performance share awards and restricted share awards will lapse.
The power of the Committee to exercise a discretion to reduce the number of shares subject to an award to nil, if appropriate in circumstances where a the corporate financial performance was at such a poor level due to under-performance of the management team such that no dividend could be declared: or b under any of the circumstances where the Committee invokes its malus and clawback powers against that individual will continue to apply.
Awards remain subject to the operation of malus or clawback.
Sharesave scheme In the event of a termination of employment or change of control or similar situation, the rules of the Sharesave scheme will apply.
Change in control No Executive Director has provisions in his or her service contract that relate to a change of control of the Company.
Any right to a bonus would normally be determined by the Committee up to the expected date of change of control taking into account both performance and the period of the elapsed financial year.
The no-sale restriction applying to any bonus payable in shares will be lifted.
Awards granted under the LTIP may vest on a change of control and certain other corporate events.
The vesting condition applying to performance share awards will be assessed unless the Committee in its discretion otherwise decides and time pro-rating shall apply to all awards in accordance with the rules of the LTIP unless the Committee determines otherwise.
The Committee has discretion to allow payment of fees incurred by Executive Directors to take legal and or tax advice on the effect of corporate restructurings or transactions on their service agreements.
The Weir Group PLC 103 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment do not contain any contractual entitlement to a termination payment and the Non-Executive Directors can be removed in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The details, including notice periods, contained in the letters of appointment in relation to the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year are set out in the table below.
Directors are required to retire at each Annual General Meeting and seek re-election by shareholders.
With the exception of the Chairman, the Company policy for notice periods for future Non-Executive Directors is for no notice period by the individual and a notice period of six months by the Company.
This is in line with the details in the table for Non-Executive Directors appointed since 2011.
None of the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors have provisions in their letters of appointment that relate to a change of control of the Company.
Non-Executive Director Contract commencement date Expiry of current term Notice period by the individual Notice period by the Company Charles Berry 1 January 2014 April 2016 6 months 6 months Alan Ferguson 13 December 2011 April 2016 6 months Melanie Gee 4 May 2011 April 2016 6 months Mary Jo Jacobi 1 January 2014 April 2016 6 months Sir Jim McDonald 1 January 2016 April 2016 6 months Rick Menell 1 April 2009 April 2016 6 months 6 months John Mogford 1 June 2008 April 2016 6 months 6 months EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS The Executive Directors are permitted, with Board agreement, to take up Non-Executive appointments provided they hold only one appointment with a listed company at any one time, there is no conflict of interest and that the time spent would not impinge on their work for the Group.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director.
ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY A key element of the Companys remuneration policy is to provide a significant part of potential reward through performance based incentive plans.
Set out below is the reward mix for the Executive Directors at minimum performance, on-target performance and maximum performance as proposed under the future policy table.
This section has been audited.
The package is structured so that for maximum performance around 50% of the overall package is delivered through variable pay.
While part of fixed pay in the charts below, restricted shares align Executive Directors with future share price.
As such, the aggregate level of remuneration received by the Executive Directors demonstrates a clear relationship between reward and performance.
Keith Cochrane Keith Cochrane Illustration of package value 000s Illustration of package composition % 4,000 100 100 00.0 13.2 17.4 26.5 34.9 563 1,125 338 60.3 675 2,000 50 47.7 1,53 0 0 8 1,538 1,538 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum The Weir Group PLC 104 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Jon Stanton Jon Stanton Illustration of package value 000s Illustration of package composition % 100 00.0 10.0 13.4 100% 2,000 24.8 33.7 228 1,500 569 137 65.2 341 52.9 50% 1,000 89 004 894 894 500 Minimum On-target Maximum 0% Minimum On-target Maximum 0 Dean Jenkins Dean Jenkins Illustration of package value 000s Illustration of package composition % 100 00.0 10.0 13.5 2,000 100% 25.1 33.8 228 1,500 569 137 64.9 341 52.7 1,000 50% 88005 885 885 500 Fixed Short-term Long-term element incentive incentive 0 Minimum On-target Maximum 0% Minimum On-target Maximum Notes 1.
The scenarios presented above demonstrate the amount of each remuneration element at minimum, on-target and maximum performance.
Salary is shown based on 2016 salary.
Benefits are shown based on 2015 benefits received as per the single total figure of remuneration.
Dean Jenkins was not an Executive Director in 2015 and so was not included in the single total figure of remuneration.
Benefits shown for Dean Jenkins are based on benefits received in 2015 for Jon Stanton who has a similar remuneration package structure.
Pension is shown based on the 2016 employer contribution or cash allowance rates.
In each scenario, fixed pay includes the proposed restricted share awards as set out in the future policy table.
This explains why the minimum illustration is higher than the sum of salary, benefits and pension.
Short term incentive consists of the opportunity for the bonus that could be earned in the year.
Minimum performance assumes none of the bonus has been earned.
Target performance assumes 60% of the bonus has been earned.
Maximum performance assumes 100% of the bonus has been earned.
Long term incentive consists of performance share awards based on opportunity levels as set out in the future policy table.
Minimum performance assumes no vesting: target performance assumes 60% vesting: and maximum performance assumes 100% vesting.
STAKEHOLDER CONSIDERATIONS Material factors taken into account when setting the remuneration policy The Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders in the business and is keen to engage where appropriate on key areas of policy setting and implementation.
The Committee has considered the following in developing the policy: i.
Shareholder engagement The Committee is committed to ongoing dialogue with the Companys shareholder base.
This can take a variety of forms, such as: meetings with major shareholders to consider significant potential changes to policy or specific issues of interest to particular shareholder groups: other dialogue to update shareholders and take their feedback on planned refinements to arrangements: and the annual votes on the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The high level of support as seen by the results of the advisory vote at the 2015 AGM for the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report 99.6% votes For and the vote for the previous two years 2014: 99.8% For, 2013: 96.8% For indicates strong shareholder support for the Directors Remuneration Reports.
The Directors Remuneration Policy received a vote of 99.6% For at the 2014 AGM.
During 2015, the Chair of the Committee consulted the Companys largest shareholders and their representative bodies on this proposed Directors Remuneration Policy to be implemented from 2016. ii.
The wider employee context The Committee is kept regularly updated on pay and conditions across the Group, although when setting the Directors Remuneration Policy, the wider employee group is not consulted.
In determining the adjustments to the Executive Directors and Group Executive salaries, the Committee considers the increases to pay levels across the broader employee population.
At the AGM, we will be seeking approval for a Sharesave scheme that will enable employees to choose to have a direct interest in the Companys shares.
The Weir Group PLC 105 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Note: certain sections of the report have been audited, which are identified either in text or with the # symbol.
STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2016 As explained in the Chairman of the Remuneration Committees Statement, we are seeking shareholder approval to a new Directors Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 28 April 2016.
As a result, we will have five separate remuneration-related resolutions, namely: Resolution 4 approval of the new remuneration policy as it applies to Executive Directors: Resolution 5 the annual advisory vote on the implementation of our present remuneration policy in 2015: Resolution 17 proposed amendments to the LTIP in order to implement the new remuneration policy for the Executive Directors: Resolution 18 proposed amendments to the LTIP so that we can use it more effectively for below Group Executive employees: and Resolution 19 approval of an all employee Sharesave scheme.
Detailed information on these resolutions is given in the Notice of Meeting.
If Resolution 4 does not receive shareholder consent then the existing Directors Remuneration Policy as approved at the 2014 AGM will continue to apply in 2016.
Executive Directors In the following description of how we wish to implement our remuneration policy in 2016 for Executive Directors, we have described it on the basis that shareholders do approve all of the above resolutions.
The implementation of our policy in 2016 is summarised in the following table with full details provided below.
Element Operation of the element Maximum potential value Performance metrics used Base salary A competitive base salary to attract and 750,000 no increase CEO Not applicable.
455,000 no increase FD & COO Benefits and pension A market aligned benefits package.
Value of benefits determined by Not applicable.
A contribution into the pension or a the cost of insured products.
12% of salary CEO & FD 10% of salary COO Annual bonus Bonus based on in-year performance 150% of salary CEO NPBTA 40% against financial and personal including 125% of salary FD & COO Cash flow 20% strategic goals.
Order input 20% Personal performance 20% Bonus shares Bonus converted into shares with a 30% of bonus.
One third released each year over a three year period.
Restricted shares Grant of restricted shares with one 90% of salary CEO Not applicable.
third vesting over years three, four 80% of salary FD & COO and five.
Performance shares Grant of performance shares subject to 75% of salary CEO EPS 33.3% a three year performance period 45% of salary FD & COO ROCE 33.3% followed by a two year holding period.
TSR 33.3% Shareholding requirements Requirement to build up a shareholding 200% CEO requirement.
in the Company over a five year period.
Fixed elements Base salary The Committee has made the following 2016 base salary decisions: 2016 salary 2015 salary Percentage change Keith Cochrane 750,000 750,000 0% Dean Jenkins 455,000 Jon Stanton 455,000 455,000 0% Salaries are effective from 1 April each year.
The Committee has considered the broader employee context and economic factors in determining salaries.
In 2016, the increase in base salaries for UK employees will be up to 4%.
Fixed elements Retirement and other benefits There is no change in the implementation of our policy in relation to pension and benefits.
The Weir Group PLC 106 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Short term incentives Annual bonus The annual bonus is based on in-year performance against targets.
The performance measures are: 40% Group Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA measured over the financial period, 20% cash flow, 20% order input and 20% personal performance targets.
The performance targets are determined annually by the Remuneration Committee and approved at the beginning of the performance year.
As set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Company will disclose the NPBTA, cash flow and order input targets and the main groupings of individual performance measures retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance targets will not be disclosed prospectively for commercial reasons, but in light of the continued uncertainty in our end markets we can confirm that we have set a wider range of NPBTA targets than compared to 2015.
The profit performance measure of NPBTA is adjusted subject to Remuneration Committee approval to exclude items that are one off in nature, to match the actual foreign exchange rates during the financial period, and is also increased or decreased to reflect the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the year that are of a size requiring Board approval.
The cash flow measure is defined as cash generated from operations, including additional pension contributions paid and excluding the impact of derivative financial instruments on working capital cash flows.
The performance target of cash flow is adjusted to match the actual foreign exchange rates during the financial period and is also increased or decreased to reflect the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the year that are of a size requiring Board approval.
Exceptional items or extraordinary items as agreed by the Remuneration Committee are excluded.
The order input measure is defined, per the Group Finance manual, as orders received from customers where there is an expressed contractual commitment to fulfil an obligation.
The performance target of order input is adjusted to match the actual foreign exchange rates during the financial period.
Adjustments will be made for any prior year orders which have been cancelled on the following basis: 1. any cancellations made up to the end of January 2017 will be deducted from the 2016 order input actual number: and 2. any prior year orders cancelled after the end of January 2017 will be treated as a negative order in the calculation of 2017 bonuses based on 2017 order input.
30% of bonus payable will be converted into shares with a restriction on sale under the LTIP.
There are no performance conditions on the bonus shares.
Long term incentives Restricted and performance shares The Committee has determined that the following awards will be made for 2016: Restricted shares Awards will vest one third on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Face value of award Overall Award type Basis on which award made % of 2016 salary vesting period Keith Cochrane Restricted shares A grant of shares will be made based on 90% Five years from policy opportunity levels, the salary of the date of the individual, and the share price on grant after the Dean Jenkins Restricted shares 80% the three days prior to grant.
2016 AGM Jon Stanton Restricted shares 80% Performance shares Awards vest after three years, subject to performance conditions.
Awards for Executive Directors are then subject to a two year holding period.
Face value of award Face value of award at threshold vesting at maximum vesting Award type Basis on which award made % of 2016 salary % of 2016 salary Performance period Keith Cochrane Performance shares A grant of shares will be made based on 18.75% 75% 1 Jan 2016 policy opportunity levels, the salary of 31 Dec 2018 the individual, and the share price on Dean Jenkins Performance shares 11.25% 45% 1 Jan 2016 the three days prior to grant.
31 Dec 2018 Jon Stanton Performance shares 11.25% 45% 1 Jan 2016 31 Dec 2018 Note The performance period for each LTIP award is based on calendar years.
The TSR performance measure is calculated over three calendar years.
The EPS and ROCE measures are calculated over the relevant financial periods.
In all cases, awards will only vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of the awards.
The Weir Group PLC 107 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2016 CONTINUED Long term incentives Restricted and performance shares continued The performances measures for the 2016 award apply in equal weighting and their performance targets are: TSR EPS ROCE Relative TSR growth against Percentage of TSR EPS growth Percentage of EPS 2018 ROCE Percentage of ROCE comparator group proportion vesting per annum proportion vesting above WACC proportion vesting Upper quintile 100% 7.5% 100% 3.75% 100% Median 25% 2% 25% 1.75% 25% Below median 0% Less than 2% 0% Less than 1.75% 0% The TSR performance measure for the 2016 LTIP grant is based on two separate comparator groups, which are focused primarily on our two major end markets, each having a 50% weighting.
Mining comparator group: Atlas Copco A, Bradken, Caterpillar Inc. Fenner PLC, FLSmidth & Co. A S B, Joy Global Inc. Komatsu, Metso Corporation, Outotec Oyj, and Sandvik AB.
Oil and gas comparator group: Amec Foster Wheeler, Flowserve Corporation, FMC Technologies, Inc. Forum Energy Technologies Inc.
Hunting plc, John Wood Group PLC, National Oilwell Varco, Petrofac, Rotork PLC and Sulzer Ltd.
The base 2015 EPS used for the purposes of the 2016 performance share award is 78.4 pence per share.
The WACC to be used for the 2016 performance share award is 8.75%.
Although the preferred approach of the Committee is to measure ROCE on an average basis over the three year performance period, this is not considered appropriate for the 2016 performance share awards because of the expected ROCE profile.
Accordingly, the ROCE target has been set on the basis that 2018s ROCE will determine the ultimate level of vesting.
2018 EPS and ROCE figures will be calculated on a consistent basis, in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Non-Executive Directors Annual fees for 2016 The implementation of the Non-Executive Director remuneration is in line with the approved Directors Remuneration Policy.
The fees per annum for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
2016 fees Percentage 2015 fees change Chairmans fee for all responsibilities 290,000 0% 290,000 Non-Executive Directors base fee 58,000 0% 58,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 12,000 0% 12,000 Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman 15,000 0% 15,000 Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 0% 15,000 1 Additional fee for Technology Advisory Board Chairman 15,000 Note 1.
The Technology Advisory Board was established in October 2015.
Further details can be found on page 59.
Fees are effective from 1 April each year.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of the remuneration for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016 and the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 received by the Executive Directors who served on the Board during the 2015 financial period are set out in the table below.
The summary table comprises a number of key components which are set out in further detail in the relevant sections that follow.
The table and accompanying notes have been audited.
Fixed elements Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Pension Total LTIP performance shares Base salary i Benefits ii Annual bonus iii and matching shares iv Retirement benefits v Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Keith Cochrane 728,125 725,000 22,994 22,781 225,000 665,564 89,250 43,500 1,065,369 1,456,845 Jon Stanton 441,771 440,000 20,356 18,804 113,750 336,607 54,150 26,400 630,027 821,811 The Weir Group PLC 108 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Notes to the single figure of remuneration for Executive Directors table Dean Jenkins was appointed an Executive Director on 1 January 2016 and did not receive any remuneration for this role during 2015. i Base salary Corresponds to the amounts received during the 2015 financial year.
Salary is paid monthly to Executive Directors.
Salaries were last increased in April 2015 when Keith Cochranes salary was increased from 725,000 to 750,000 and Jon Stantons salary was increased from 440,000 to 455,000.
From August until the end of the year, the Executive Directors waived 5% of their salaries.
ii Benefits Corresponds to the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the 2015 financial year.
Keith Jon Cochrane Stanton 2015 2015 Life insurance cover 4,143 4,907 Car allowance 17,015 13,970 Group healthcare 1,479 1,479 Other benefits 357 Total 22,994 20,356 iii Short-term incentives Corresponds to the total bonus earned under the annual bonus in respect of 2015 performance and includes both the cash element 70% and the bonus to be converted into shares with a restriction on sale 30%.
The 2015 annual bonus was based on achievement of Group Normalised Profit before Tax and Amortisation NPBTA 60%, cash flow 20% and personal performance targets 20%.
Executive Directors 2015 performance was assessed relative to both the financial targets and other performance considerations further outlined below.
2015 performance measures for Executive Directors Contribution to Weighting as payout as Payout as a percentage percentage of 2015 performance Actual percentage of of total bonus maximum bonus required performance maximum opportunity opportunity NPBTA Based on the achievement of Threshold 273.8m 219.8m 0% 60% 0% NPBTA targets measured over the Target 318.9m financial period.
Stretch 363.9m Cash flow Based on the achievement of cash Threshold 471.9m 390.9m 0% 20% 0% flow targets measured over the Target 545.4m financial period.
Stretch 618.9m Individual performance objectives Robustly set and customised for each Keith Cochrane: Fully met 100% 20% 20% individual, all objectives are measurable Objectives included areas such as and are objectively determined.
employee engagement and wellbeing, progressing innovation and further improvement in operating excellence.
Jon Stanton: Fully met 100% 20% 20% Objectives included areas such as enhancing capability and talent in the finance function, improving IT infrastructure and systems and delivering cost savings and cash generation.
The Weir Group PLC 109 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED 2015 short-term incentive awards Based on the outcome of 2015 performance as outlined above, the Committee approved the following annual bonus awards under the Executive Bonus Scheme to Executive Directors: Payout as percentage of maximum Payout as bonus percentage Payout Executive Director opportunity of salary Keith Cochrane 20% 30% 225,000 Jon Stanton 20% 25% 113,750 Notes 1.
Includes 30% conversion into shares with restriction on sale over three years.
Bonus award is based on salary as at 31 December in the relevant financial year.
Bonus to be paid in March 2016. iv Long-term incentives The value represents an estimate of the market value of the 2013 Performance and Matching Share awards at year end.
LTIP awards vesting in 2016 In accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations, the single total remuneration figure for 2015 includes the vesting value of the performance and matching shares made under the 2013 LTIP Award, with a performance period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015.
The 2013 performance share and matching share awards for Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton were due to vest on 11 March 2016.
The table below sets out a summary of the performance conditions, performance against these conditions as well as the resulting gross vesting value using the share price over the fourth quarter of 2015 in accordance with the Regulations.
The Committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the performance conditions to reflect significant one-off items which occur during the performance period.
No discretion was exercised in respect of the awards.
Performance metrics, weighting and period Resulting 2013 performance Performance conditions and method of determining Maximum number vesting share awards and targets set Maximum potential value of shares granted performance Keith Cochrane Performance Shares with value of 30,133 Overall level of vesting conditions set out 100% of salary on 0%.
50% of award is based on Performance EPS growth.
Actual EPS period of three growth was -18.79% p. a.
1 Jon Stanton 18,288 years ended on resulting in 0% vesting.
31 December 2015 due to vest on 50% of award is based 11 March 2016. on TSR growth.
Actual TSR growth was -34%, corresponding to below median performance Resulting 2013 matching relative to peers between vesting share awards January 2013 and December 2015, resulting Keith Cochrane Performance Shares with value of 14,180 in 0% vesting.
conditions set out 200% of compulsory and on page 113. voluntary deferred annual Dividend equivalents are bonus on the date of paid on vested shares Performance grant, subject to continued based on dividend period of three employment and retention Jon Stanton 5,672 payments over the years ended on of compulsory investment performance period.
31 December 2015 shares and voluntary Dividend equivalents to be due to vest on investment shares where delivered in shares.
The EPS outcome has been adjusted to remove the impact of IAS 19R on the 2015 result to ensure a consistent measurement basis across the performance period.
The Weir Group PLC 110 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III Note that compulsory and voluntary investment shares will be released in 2016 to individuals.
The number of shares expected to be released in 2016 is 7,090 for Keith Cochrane and 2,836 for Jon Stanton.
The compulsory investment shares also have the right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares to the value of 131.0p per share at the date of vesting.
The value of these shares does not form part of the single total figure table as they have not been subject to performance measures since they were granted.
v Retirement benefits Represents the value of the cash allowance towards retirement benefit provision In July 2014, the Company introduced an auto-enrolment provision for Executive Directors to receive a contribution to the pension plan or a cash allowance of 12% of salary.
Both the Chief Executive and the Finance Director have chosen to take the cash allowance.
The Group made no additional provisions for Executive Director pensions in 2015.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other companies.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Chairman of the Board.
Details of external directorships held by Executive Directors, together with fees retained during the year are as follows: 2015 fees Executive Director External company Roles held Keith Cochrane Carillion plc Non-Executive Director and Senior 28,400 Independent Non-Executive Director Keith Cochrane The Scotland Office and the Office of the Lead Non-Executive Director Advocate General Notes 1.
Keith Cochrane was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Carillion plc in July 2015 and became Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in September 2015.
Keith Cochrane is entitled to claim 300 per meeting attended in his role of Lead Non-Executive Director of the Scotland Office and the Office of the Advocate General.
# PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE No payments were made for loss of office during the year.
# PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS No payments were made to past Directors during the year.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE CHAIRMAN Details of the remuneration for the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016 and the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 received by the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who served on the Board during the 2015 financial period are set out in the table below.
Sir Jim McDonald joined the Board as a Director on 1 January 2015 and did not receive any remuneration during 2014.
Lord Robertson retired from the Board as a Director on 31 January 2015.
This is the initial publication of taxable benefits and includes the taxable benefit of travel including international travel from America and South Africa to attend Board meetings in the UK.
The Weir Group PLC 111 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING 2015 The following table sets out the interests of the Executive Directors in the Companys share schemes, comprising awards of performance shares under the LTIP, which were awarded during the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016.
The closing market price of the Companys ordinary shares at 1 January 2016 was 10.00 and the range during the year was 9.30 to 20.24.
Face value Face value of award at of award at Type of Grant Number threshold maximum interest Date of share of shares vesting vesting Date of Performance 2015 LTIP awards Award type awarded award price Basis of award awarded vesting period Keith Cochrane Performance Nil cost 12 Mar 15 18.46 250% salary 101,570 468,746 1,874,982 12 Mar 18 1 Jan 15 shares options 31 Dec 17 Jon Stanton Performance Nil cost 12 Mar 15 18.46 200% salary 49,295 227,496 909,986 12 Mar 18 1 Jan 15 shares options 31 Dec 17 Notes 1.
The figures shown for performance share awards are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares if any which vest will depend on the performance conditions being achieved as set out on page 113.
No performance shares will vest for below threshold performance.
The performance period for each LTIP award is based on calendar years.
The TSR performance measure is calculated over calendar years.
The EPS and ROCE measures are calculated over financial periods.
The face value of the award is based on the share price at grant, which is calculated as the average of the closing share price for the three days prior to the date of grant.
The exercise price for performance shares is zero.
No additional shares were granted other than at the date of award set out above.
The Weir Group PLC 112 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS FOR THE LTIP 2013 2014 2015 TSR Weighting 50% 33.3% 33.3% Target structure Relative TSR Percentage of the Relative TSR Percentage of the Relative TSR Percentage of the Growth against TSR portion Growth against TSR portion of Growth against TSR portion comparator of the award comparator the award that comparator of the award group that vests group vests group that vests Maximum Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100% Upper quintile 100% performance Threshold Median 25% Median 25% Median 25% performance Below threshold Below median 0% Below median 0% Below median 0% performance 2 2 Comparator group Amec Foster Wheeler, Cameron, Amec Foster Wheeler, Atlas Copco, Amec Foster Wheeler, Atlas Copco, Crane, Dover, Fenner, FLSmidth, Cameron, Crane, Dover, Fenner, Cameron, Crane, Dover, Fenner, 3 Flowserve, FMC, Forum Energy, FLSmidth, Flowserve, FMC, Forum FLSmidth, Flowserve, FMC, Forum 4 Halma, IMI, Joy Global, Meggitt, Energy, IMI, ITT, Joy Global, Melrose, Energy, IMI, ITT, Joy Global, Melrose, Melrose, Metso, Outotec, Rotork, Metso, Outotec, Rotork, Sandvik, Metso, Outotec, Rotork, Sandvik, 4 5 5 Sandvik, Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, SPX Flow, Smiths Group, Spirax Sarco, SPX Flow, SPX, Sulzer, Vesuvius, Wood Group Sulzer, Vesuvius, Wood Group Sulzer, Vesuvius, Wood Group 1 EPS Weighting 50% 33.3% 33.3% Target structure EPS Growth Percentage of EPS Growth Percentage of EPS Growth Percentage of per annum EPS portion per annum EPS portion per annum EPS portion of the award of the award of the award that vests that vests that vests Maximum 11% 100% 11% 100% 7.5% 100% performance Threshold 5% 25% 5% 25% 2.5% 25% performance Below threshold Less than 5% 0% Less than 5% 0% Less than 2.5% 0% performance 1 ROCE Weighting 0% 33.3% 33.3% Target structure Improvement in Percentage of 2017 ROCE Percentage of average ROCE ROCE portion ROCE portion per annum of the award of the award that vests that vests Maximum 4% 100% 24.8% 100% performance Threshold 0.5% 25% 18.8% 25% performance Below threshold Less than 0.5% 0% Less than 18.8% 0% performance Performance Single three year performance period Single three year performance period Single three year performance period periods for both elements for both elements for all elements Notes 1.
EPS and ROCE are subject to adjustments in line with policy.
AMEC has been renamed to Amec Foster Wheeler following its acquisition of Foster Wheeler in 2014.
Gardner Denver was acquired and delisted in 2013.
It was replaced by Forum Energy Technologies in the 2013 comparator group.
Dresser Rand was acquired and delisted in 2015.
It was replaced by Sandvik in the 2013 comparator group and Forum Energy Technologies in the 2014 comparator group.
SPX Corporation demerged in September 2015 into SPX Flow and SPX.
SPX Flow will succeed SPX Corporation in the 2014 and 2015 comparator groups.
Lufkin was acquired during 2013 and has been removed from the 2013 comparator group.
The Weir Group PLC 113 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS The Committee believes that employee share ownership is an important means to support long-term commitment to the Company and the alignment of employee interests with those of shareholders.
The interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives are closely aligned with those of shareholders in this regard through the operation of the Companys LTIP and the conversion into shares with restriction on sale of 30% of the annual bonus award for a period of three years.
These elements constitute a significant proportion of individual remuneration packages.
Following shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, the shareholding guidelines outlined in the policy table on page 99 apply to all Executive Directors.
All shares beneficially owned by an Executive Director count towards achieving these guidelines.
There is no shareholding requirement for Non-Executive Directors.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below.
Summary of total number of interests in shares in the Company and scheme interests as at 1 January 2016 The table and accompanying notes have been audited.
Interests in shares in Scheme interests vested the Company as at Scheme interests as at and exercised in 2015 1 1 January 2016 1 January 2016 2012 grant Total Total Total Total performance compulsory performance compulsory Total shares and investment shares and investment shares matching shares matching shares contributing to shares options shares options shareholding Shareholding Total shares without options with options with without target guidelines Security % of 2015 performance performance performance performance % of 2015 % of 2015 2 type Total shares salary conditions conditions conditions conditions salary salary Keith Cochrane Shares 299,971 400% 216,372 7,090 16,017 400% 200% Dean Jenkins Shares 17,367 38% 89,389 1,855 4,006 38% 150% Jon Stanton Shares 36,935 81% 107,478 2,836 6,573 81% 150% Charles Berry Shares 2,000 Alan Ferguson Shares 2,730 Melanie Gee Shares 2,500 10 Mary Jo Jacobi Shares 2,000 Sir Jim McDonald Shares Richard Menell Shares 1,000 John Mogford Shares 12,031 Notes 1.
On 9 March 2015, the 2012 Award under the LTIP for Keith Cochrane, Dean Jenkins and Jon Stanton vested.
The performance conditions were not met so the performance share and matching share awards lapsed in full.
On 12, 16 and 25 March 2015, they respectively exercised 100% of their compulsory shares as set out in the table above.
Keith Cochrane sold 7,578 shares and Jon Stanton 3,156 shares to pay the relevant tax and National Insurance, retaining the balance.
The market price at date of exercise on 12 March 2015 was 18.27: on 16 March 2015 was 17.81: and on 25 March 2015 was 17.68.
Options exercised in 2015 had a zero exercise price.
Awards under the LTIP take the form of nil cost options or conditional awards and have no performance retesting facility.
The share awards have a right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of shares payable at vesting.
The awards exercised by the Executive Directors include dividend equivalents of 120.8p per share, being the dividends paid between the date of award and the date of exercise.
This equated to 994 shares for Keith Cochrane, 250 shares for Dean Jenkins and 410 shares for Jon Stanton.
No Director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of any significance in relation to the Groups business, in any debenture stocks of the Company, or in the share capital or debenture or loan stocks of any subsidiary.
Due to the vesting outcome of the 2012 LTIP, 83,526 shares under Keith Cochranes grant, 28,294 shares under Dean Jenkins grant, and 33,899 shares under Jon Stantons grant lapsed.
There are no unexercised vested options held by Executive Directors.
All scheme interests outstanding or vesting in the year were share options rather than shares.
Total shares as a percentage of salary is based on salary as of 31 December in the relevant financial year and on the market price of the Companys ordinary shares at the financial period end.
For 2015, the closing market price at 1 January 2016 was 10.00.
There have been no changes to Directors interests between 1 January 2016 and 24 February 2016.
Mary Jo Jacobis interest in 2,000 shares shown above is through her holding of 4,000 of the Groups unsponsored American Depositary Receipts ADRs, one ADR being equivalent to 0.5 shares.
Prior to 2014, Executive Directors had the opportunity to defer up to an additional 20% of the Group element of their bonus into shares.
As a result, Dean Jenkins received 424 shares in March 2013.
These shares are shown in the interests in shares column above.
Since 2014, 30% of the annual bonus is converted into shares with a restriction on sale.
This resulted in Keith Cochrane receiving 653 shares in May 2014 and 5,743 in March 2015: Dean Jenkins receiving 414 shares in May 2014 and 1,567 shares in March 2015: and Jon Stanton receiving 264 shares in May 2014 and 2,904 shares in March 2015.
The Weir Group PLC 114 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE FOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE The graph below shows the total shareholder return TSR for The Weir Group PLC and the FTSE 350 Index over the seven year period ending 31 December 2015.
This is set out with the total vested and received remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same period, which is set out numerically below the chart.
The Committee considers the FTSE 350 to be the most relevant index for a comparison of TSR.
The TSR chart shown in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration showed the Weir Groups TSR performance against that of the FTSE 100 and the 2014 LTIP comparator group.
The Weir Group has since moved out of the FTSE 100 index and are no longer comparing TSR against a single comparator group for future LTIP grants.
2009 remuneration relates to the ten months Mark Selway was Chief Executive until his resignation in November 2009.
2009 remuneration relates to the two months Keith Cochrane was Chief Executive from November 2009.
Total remuneration is calculated on the same basis as the 2015 remuneration summary in the single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors table on page 108.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION The percentage change in elements of remuneration for the Chief Executive between the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 and the 52 weeks ended 1 January 2016 is detailed below.
The change in remuneration for UK employees for the same period is also provided.
Chief UK Executive employees percentage percentage change change Salary and fees 0.4% 0.5% Taxable benefits 0.9% -15.8% Bonus -66.2% -73.7% For the purposes of this section, remuneration has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations to include salary, fees, taxable benefits including emoluments and certain performance-related pay for the relevant financial year primarily bonuses but excluding long term incentives.
Pension and retirement benefits are not included.
The Weir Group PLC 115 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION CONTINUED The decrease in bonus for the Chief Executive reflects the figures in the single total figure table in 2014 and 2015.
The UK employee population has been selected as it reflects a broad sample of employees which includes Head Office employees and other individuals located in the same country as the Chief Executive.
The figures shown for UK employees are impacted by a reduction in the UK employee headcount of approximately 9%.
The 2015 budget for salary increases for UK employees was around 3%.
There has been no change to the taxable benefits policy for UK employees in 2015.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below shows the expenditure of the Company on employee remuneration costs in the 2015 financial year and 2014 financial year.
In addition, it details the disbursements from profit made by way of dividend payments during the same periods.
2015 2014 Percentage m m change Profit distributed by way of dividend 94.0 102.7 -8.5% Overall spend on pay for employees 552.0 630.7 -12.5% Details of the dividends declared and paid during the periods are contained in note 10 to the Financial Statements on page 150. Dividend cash outflows reduced as a result of the rephasing of dividend payments in 2014.
The final dividend payment now represents approximately two thirds, as opposed to three quarters, of the total dividend.
Details of the overall spend on pay for employees can be found in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 145.
Employees include Executive Directors but not Non-Executive Directors.
The Company considers employee remuneration costs in the context of the general financial performance and position of the Company, including when determining the salary increase budget, annual bonus funding, long term incentive grant budget and pension levels.
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Terms of Reference and Evaluation To ensure reward arrangements support the Companys philosophy, strategy and culture, the Committee reviews compensation and benefit plans for the Executive Directors, senior leadership, and the broader employee population.
In December 2015, the Committee reviewed and updated its Terms of Reference.
The Remuneration Committee was evaluated as part of the 2015 Board evaluation process, and it was concluded that the Committee continued to function strongly in accordance with good corporate governance.
The report highlighted that in a busy year involving the formulation of the proposed new remuneration policy, there had been a cohesive approach and in particular a significant amount of good work undertaken on shareholder consultation.
The Committee identified a number of potential improvements for implementation in 2016.
More details of the Board evaluation can be found on page 83.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
MEETINGS The table below details the Board members and members of senior management who were invited to attend meetings as appropriate during the calendar year.
Remuneration Committee attendees Charles Berry Group Chairman Attends by invitation Keith Cochrane Chief Executive Attends by invitation Keith Ruddock Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Attended as former Secretary to the Committee Gillian Kyle Deputy Company Secretary Attends as Secretary to the Committee Pauline Lafferty Director of Human Resources Attends by invitation  LLP PwC Attends as adviser to the Committee There were six meetings held during the 52 weeks to 1 January 2016, and the attendance of the individual members of the Committee during that period is detailed in the table below.
Calls with members of the Remuneration Committee were also held by telephone in relation to the shareholder consultation on the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy.
All members of the Committee are considered to be independent Non-Executive Directors and no Director plays a part in the determination of their own remuneration.
Executive Directors and senior management attend committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
Maximum number Members Member since of possible meetings Number of meetings attended Percentage of meetings attended Melanie Gee Chairman 9 May 2012 6 6 100% Alan Ferguson 1 February 2015 5 5 100% Mary Jo Jacobi 21 January 2014 6 6 100% Richard Menell 29 July 2011 6 6 100% 1 Lord Robertson 9 December 2008 1 1 100% Note 1.
Lord Robertson retired from the Committee on 31 January 2015.
The Weir Group PLC 116 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 I II: Corporate Governance III In 2015, the Committee discussed the key agenda items set out in the following table: Date Agenda items January Approval of salaries and 2015 annual bonus targets for Executive Directors and Group Executive: approval of Chairman fee: review of draft 2014 Remuneration Report: Group Executive shareholding levels noted: and update on 2014 bonus and 2012 LTIP outcomes.
February Approval of 2014 bonus payments for Executive Directors and Group Executive: approval of total remuneration for Executive Directors: note payment of 2014 bonuses to senior managers: approval of vesting of conditional share grants for 2012 LTIP: approval of performance conditions for 2015 annual bonus and LTIP: finalisation of 2014 Remuneration Report: review of independence of and fees paid to PwC as advisers to the Committee: feedback on Committee effectiveness review: corporate governance update: and approval of vesting of 2012 Deferred Bonus Plan.
July Review of bonus and LTIP targets versus current projections: one-off retention award for senior managers noted: consideration of strategic review of remuneration: approval of LTIP grants for new joiners: and remuneration review for new COO role.
September Review of bonus and LTIP targets versus current projections: strategic remuneration review update: and approval of remuneration for new Group Executive appointment.
October Review of bonus and LTIP targets versus current projections: consideration of new remuneration policy objectives and proposals: and approval of the commencement of a shareholder consultation.
December Review of bonus and LTIP targets versus current projections: review of initial proposals for 2016 salaries of Executive Directors and the wider Group: reviewed and discussed a PwC update on market trends and best practice on all aspects of remuneration: consideration of investor feedback from consultation and discussion on alternatives to address the feedback received: review of the Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference: and review of the 2016 calendar for the Remuneration Committee.
ADVISERS TO THE COMMITTEE In discharging its responsibilities in 2015, the Committee was materially assisted by the Director of Human Resources and the Company Secretary.
PwC was appointed following a review of providers by the Committee in 2011.
During 2015, the Committee undertook a review of the fees paid to PwC and considered the role and parameters of PwC as advisers to the Committee in light of the external auditor review being undertaken by the Company.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2015 totalled 96,428.
This included advice on remuneration policy and practice, as well as guidance to the Committee on corporate governance trends and best practice.
PwC is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Voluntary Code of Conduct.
The Committee recognises the need to obtain independent advice and given that PwC provides additional services to the Group, the Remuneration Committee Chairman has discussed this with PwC and management.
The Committee is confident that any potential conflicts are managed appropriately by the Company and PwC.
For information, the additional services provided by PwC include advice on pension schemes, IT project assurance, global mobility services including taxation advice, internal audit services, share plan taxation and due diligence in relation to acquisitions.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING The Company is committed to maintaining an open shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against the Directors Remuneration Report, the Company would explain when announcing the results of voting what actions would be taken to understand the reasons for any such vote and would also set out in the following Annual Report actions implemented in response.
At the Companys last Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2015, the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy as contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 was supported as follows: Votes Voting outcome Votes for Percentage Votes against Percentage Votes total withheld 2014 Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy 153,306,119 99.56% 677,994 0.44% 153,984,113 1,575,878 MELANIE GEE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 24 February 2016 The Weir Group PLC 117 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
