Directors remuneration report Statement from the Chairman I am pleased to present the directors remuneration report for the period ended 31 December 2015, prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys auditor is required to verify certain information within this report subject to statutory audit by the Companies Act 2006.
Where information set out below has been audited it is indicated as such.
We are required to seek shareholder approval of the directors the experience of the Board member and the time remuneration policy at least every third year and the commitment required by Board members to carry out their remuneration report annually.
Any changes to the directors duties, and is determined with reference to the appointment remuneration policy will require shareholder approval.
of directors of similar investment companies.
The level of remuneration has been set with the aim of promoting the It is proposed that an ordinary resolution to approve the future success of the Company.
With this in mind, the Board directors remuneration policy will be proposed as set out considers remuneration in order to attract individuals of below at the Companys forthcoming Annual General a calibre appropriate to promote the long-term success of Meeting to be held on 9 May 2016.
It is proposed that the Company and to reflect the specific circumstances of this policy will be adopted at that meeting with effect from the Company and its field of investment, the duties and the date of the Annual General Meeting and will remain responsibilities of the directors and the value and amount in force for the year ending 31 December 2016 and for the of time committment required of directors to the two subsequent years.
An ordinary resolution to approve Companys affairs.
the directors remuneration policy will be put to shareholders at least once every three years.
At the Annual General Due regard is taken of the Boards requirement to attract Meeting, shareholders will also be asked to make an advisory and retain individuals with suitable knowledge and vote on the contents of the directors remuneration report.
experience and the role that individual directors fulfil.
There are no specific performance-related conditions attached to As at 31 December 2015, the Board comprised four the remuneration of the Board and the Board members non-executive directors, all of whom are independent of are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, the investment managers.
long-term incentive schemes or other non-cash benefits or taxable expenses.
No other payments are made to Given the size of the Board, and as the Company has no directors other than reasonable out-of-pocket expenses employees, it is not considered appropriate for the Company which have been incurred as a result of attending to the to establish separate Remuneration and Nomination affairs of the Company.
It is, therefore, the practice for the Board as a whole to consider and approve directors remuneration.
In addition to the Board's remuneration, Board members Prior to the Companys incorporation, the fees were set at are entitled to such fees as they may determine in respect the rate of 40,000 per annum for the Chairman, 32,000 of any extra or special services performed by them, having per annum for the Chairman of the Audit Committee and been called upon to do so.
Such fees would only be incurred 27,000 for the other directors.
As the Boards fees were in exceptional circumstances.
An example of such a considered prior to the Companys incorporation and prior circumstance would be if the Company was to undertake a to its listing as an investment company, the appointment corporate action, which would require the Board to dedicate of external remuneration consultants was not considered additional time to review associated documents and to necessary.
Furthermore, the Board took the decision not attend additional meetings.
Such fees would be to revise the Boards fees because they did not feel it was determined at the Board's absolute discretion and would appropriate, given the Companys short existence.
Many be set at a similar rate to other comparable investment parts of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and companies who have undertaken equivalent activities.
The Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations fees would be set with the Company's long-term success in 2013 do not apply as the Board is comprised entirely of mind and would be considered in the interest of the non-executive directors and the Company has no Company's shareholders as a whole.
The Board has considered and approved a formal policy for the approval of directors' expenses.
The directors are entitled to be paid all expenses properly incurred by them in attending meetings with shareholders Directors remuneration policy or other directors or otherwise in connection with the The fees for the Board as a whole are limited to 500,000 discharge of their duties as directors.
per annum in accordance are with the Companys articles of association, divided between the directors as they may Shareholders have the opportunity to express their views determine.
Subject to this limit, the Boards policy is that in respect of directors remuneration at the Companys remuneration of non-executive directors should reflect AGM.
The Company has not sought shareholder views on Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 57 its remuneration policy.
Any comment volunteered by The directors remuneration report, including the shareholders on the remuneration policy will be carefully implementation of the directors remuneration policy, is considered and appropriate action taken.
No subject to an annual advisory vote via an ordinary resolution.
communications have been received from shareholders An advisory vote is a non-binding advisory resolution.
In the on the Companys remuneration policy.
event that shareholders vote against the advisory resolution, the Board will be required to put its remuneration policy for The Companys remuneration policy and its implementation shareholder approval at the next Annual General Meeting are reviewed by the Board as a whole on an annual basis.
to be held in 2017, regardless of whether the remuneration Directors do not vote on their own fees.
Reviews are based policy was approved by shareholders.
The votes cast at on third parties information on the fees of other similar the Annual General Meeting on the two new resolutions investment trusts.
Every third year, in accordance with will be disclosed in the remuneration report for the year Code B.
6.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as a to 31 December 2016.
FTSE 250 company, the Board is required to carry out an externally facilitated evaluation of its performance.
This evaluation process also provides input into the appropriate level of directors fees from an independent source.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Company, nor are any such contracts proposed.
Instead, directors are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment entered into with the Company.
There is no notice period specified in the letters of appointment or Articles of Association for the removal of directors.
Directors are not appointed for a specific term.
Copies of the directors letters of appointment are available at each of the Companys Annual General Meetings and can be obtained from the Companys registered office.
The directors are not entitled to exit payments and are not provided with any compensation for loss of office.
As with most investment trusts there is no Chief Executive Officer and no employees.
The Companys remuneration policy will apply to new Board members, who will be paid the equivalent amount of fees as current Board members holding similar roles.
This policy has been followed since the Companys incorporation on 26 January 2015 and will be formalised at the Companys first Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2016 and it will take effect from that date.
Directors remuneration policy implementation This section refers to the way in which the remuneration policy has been implemented during the period under review.
Voting at Annual General Meeting An ordinary resolution for the approval of the directors remuneration policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
A binding vote means that if it is not successful, the Board will be obliged to revise the policy and seek further shareholder approval at a General Meeting specially convened for that purpose.
58 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Directors fees audited Single total aggregate directors remuneration for the period under review was 87,877.
The directors who served during the period under review received the following emoluments: Fees paid during the Taxable Non-taxable Total period period under review benefits benefits to 31 26 January 2015 December 2015 to 31 December 2015 Susan Searle Chair # 27,897 Nil Nil 27,897 Steven Harris# 22,318 Nil Nil 22,318 Scott Brown# 18,832 Nil Nil 18,832 Louise Makin# 18,832 Nil Nil 18,832 Alexander Haynes Nil Nil Nil Nil Nicholas Horton Nil Nil Nil Nil Alexander Haynes and Nicholas Horton were appointed as directors upon the Companys incorporation but resigned from the Board on 13 February 2015, prior to the Companys listing # Susan Searle, Steven Harris, Scott Brown and Louise Makin were appointed to the Board on 13 February 2015 No payments were made to past directors for loss of office.
In the absence of further major increases in the workload and responsibility involved, the Board does not expect fees to increase significantly over the next three years.
The overall remuneration of each director will continue to be monitored by the Board, taking into account those matters referred to in the annual statement above.
The Company did not pay any other benefits including bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other non-cash benefits or taxable benefits.
As a FTSE 250 company the Board members will be required to put themselves forward for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
The Company has not made any loans to the directors which are outstanding, nor has it ever provided any guarantees for the benefit of any director or the directors collectively nor does it intend to.
Company performance The Board is responsible for the Companys investment strategy and performance, although day-to-day management of the Companys affairs, including the management of the Companys portfolio, has been delegated to third-party service providers.
An explanation of the performance of the Company is given in the Chairman's statement and manager's review on pages 13 to 15.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 59 The graph below shows the total return to ordinary shareholders compared to the total shareholder returns of the FTSE All Share Index during the period since the Company was listed 21 April 2015 to 31 December 2015.
This index has been selected as the most relevant, although there is no listed index that is directly comparable to the Companys portfolio.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust performance Source: Bloomberg Value of 100 invested 125 120 115 110 105 100 95 90 85 Woodford Patient Capital Trust net asset value Woodford Patient Capital Trust share price 80 FTSE All Share Index total return Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 60 Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc Expenditure by the Company on directors remuneration compared with distributions to shareholders The following table is provided in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 which sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in respect of the period since incorporation 26 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.
As the Company has not made a distribution to shareholders by way of dividend payments, share buy-backs or any other significant distribution and other payments deemed appropriate and furthermore the Company has been in existence for less than a year, the table only presents the remuneration paid to directors for the period under review, compared to the fees paid to the Company's third-party service providers together with the Company's administrative costs.
When considering the table below, shareholders should take into account the Companys principal investment objective of achieving capital growth.
As the Company has no employees and undertakes its operations through service providers, the spend on service providers was chosen to assist the shareholders in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay.
The spend on service providers is an aggregate of the fees paid to each service provider in accordance with their respective agreements.
Period since incorporation 26 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 Total remuneration paid to directors 87,877 Service providers and administrative costs 728,577 Shareholder distribution dividends or share buy-backs Nil Directors interests audited The Company does not have any requirement for any director to own shares in the Company.
The interests of the directors including connected persons in the shares of the Company are set out below: Class of Shares 31 December 2015 Susan Searle Ordinary shares 36,062 Steven Harris Ordinary shares 45,077 Scott Brown Ordinary shares 24,341 Louise Makin Ordinary shares 13,523 Alexander Haynes Nil Nicholas Horton Nil There have been no changes to any holdings between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report.
Approval of the Annual Report on remuneration and the directors remuneration policy The Annual Report on remuneration was approved by the Board on 21 March 2016.
By order of the Board Susan Searle Chairman Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 61
