Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration policy report The following table summarises the key elements of the Groups Remuneration Policy for Directors, which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Details of the full Remuneration Policy can be found in the 2013 Annual Report available from the Companys website at www.
Summary policy table Executive Directors Fixed pay Element Base salary Purpose and link to To attract, retain and motivate high-calibre individuals.
strategy To provide competitive non-variable remuneration relative to the external market.
To recognise and reward performance, skills and experience.
Operation Normally reviewed in January each year having regard to market practice, to Group and individual performance, and to scope of responsibility.
Maximum opportunity There is no maximum salary or maximum salary increase.
Salaries are determined with regard to competitive market practice and also to Group and individual performance and scope of responsibility.
Salary increases will typically be in line with increases for other Group employees but the Committee has discretion to increase above this level to take account of individual circumstances such as increase in scope and responsibility, individual development and performance in role, and alignment to market level.
Performance measures None, although overall individual performance is considered when deciding salary levels.
Element Pension Purpose and link to To help recruit and retain high-calibre Executive Directors reflecting an individuals skills and strategy experience.
1 Operation Contributions to pension funds.
Maximum opportunity Employer contribution of maximum of 16% of base salary.
Performance measures None Element Benefits Purpose and link to To provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package appropriate to the role and strategy location of Executive Directors.
Operation Benefits comprise the provision of a company car allowance, private fuel, private medical insurance for the Executive Director and immediate family, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
Executive Directors are also provided with the technology required to enable them to carry out their duties effectively and efficiently.
The benefits package may be adjusted by the Committee from time to time to reflect an individuals particular circumstances and to align to market level.
In addition to the above, other benefits such as relocation allowances may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Maximum opportunity Full cost of provision.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 37 Remuneration policy report continued Summary policy table continued Executive Directors continued Variable pay Element Annual performance related bonus scheme Purpose and link to To reward excellent financial performance and achievement of strategic, financial and strategy operational objectives linked to investor expectations at the beginning of the year.
Operation Measures and targets are reviewed and set annually by the Committee at the beginning of the financial year and the levels of award are determined by the Committee after the year-end based on the performance against targets.
Bonus awards are paid in cash, are non-pensionable and are subject to a claw back in relation to fraud or gross misrepresentation.
Maximum opportunity Up to 100% of base salary but limited to 75% of base salary for each of the Joint Chief Executives in view of their participation in the Founder Long Term Incentive Plan.
Performance measures A combination of financial and non-financial targets, such as occupancy and cost efficiency targets, corporate targets and a discretionary element to reward overall performance.
The exact measures, weightings and targets are determined by the Committee each year taking into account the Groups key strategic priorities and the budget for the year.
Element Performance share plan PSP Purpose and link to To incentivise and reward outstanding performance and ensure alignment with shareholders strategy interests.
Operation Awards of share options on an annual basis.
Awards are normally exercisable over a two-year period normally commencing no earlier than three years from date of grant, subject to continued employment and performance conditions.
Maximum opportunity Annual awards subject to a maximum value at grant of 150% of base salary but limited to 75% of base salary for each of the Joint Chief Executives in view of their participation in the Founder Long Term Incentive Plan.
Performance measures Targets are set by the Committee in accordance with the strategic objectives of the Group at the time the awards are granted and measured over a three-year performance period.
Element Founder Long Term Incentive Plan Founder LTIP Purpose and link to Legacy arrangement forming part of the Founder Directors arrangements established at IPO strategy November 2005 to incentivise the existing Joint Chief Executives and to recognise and reward the delivery of exceptional returns to shareholders.
This arrangement cannot be offered to any other Directors.
Operation Contractual rights operating over three-year performance periods to award shares where the NAV per share growth exceeds the Target NAV per share.
The current performance period is 2013 to 2015.
Maximum opportunity For each Joint Chief Executive, an award of shares with a value equal to 12.5% of the NAV per share growth in excess of a Target NAV per share multiplied by the number of shares in issue at the end of the performance period.
Performance measures In the relevant three year performance period, the NAV per share must have compound growth in excess of 10% per annum.
The NAV per share growth and the Target NAV are measured after including dividends and other returns to shareholders.
The performance measure was chosen to reward the Founder Directors if the Groups return to shareholders is significant in absolute terms.
38 Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Executive Directors continued Variable pay Element Shareholding requirement Purpose and link to To demonstrate the commitment of the Executive Directors to the Company and to ensure strategy alignment of their personal interests with those of the Company and the shareholders.
Operation The Executive Directors are required to build and then maintain a shareholding in the Company.
Maximum opportunity Within three years of their appointment, the Executive Directors are required to build and then maintain a shareholding in the Company equal in value to their pre-tax base salary.
Non-Executive Directors Element Fees Purpose and link to To attract and retain high-calibre individuals.
strategy Operation Fees are reviewed periodically.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus or long-term incentive schemes and receive no other benefits.
Maximum opportunity There is no individual maximum fee or maximum fee increase.
Fees are set at a level to reflect time commitment and responsibilities of the relevant role and by reference to surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors of companies with comparable market capitalisation.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee plus additional fees for chairing Board Committees or for acting as Senior Independent Director.
These are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee.
Overall fees must remain within the limit in the Articles of Association of 750,000 in aggregate.
The Executive Directors are responsible for their own pension arrangements and so funds are provided by the Company to enable them to facilitate those arrangements.
Hansteen Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 39
