058 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Dear Shareholder For ease of reference, we have set out in detail the DIRECTORS I am pleased to introduce the Directors proposals we shared with investors in a table Remuneration Report for 2014 15. following this Annual Statement.
The proposals are REMUNERATION In my statement last year, I signalled that some reflected in the Remuneration Policy Report section, adjustments may be necessary to our current and the specific annual bonus and LTIP targets are REPORT remuneration arrangements in 2015 as they also set out in section 2.4 of the Annual Report on approached their third anniversary.
Accordingly, Remuneration Performance targets for the CHAIRMAN OF THE during the year, the Committee has undertaken an coming year.
extensive review of the current arrangements to REMUNERATION Consultation process ensure that they are fully fit for purpose.
Following The consultation process involved contact by letter, careful consideration and recent consultation with COMMITTEES telephone and face-to-face meetings with more key investors and institutional bodies, some revisions than 20 of our major shareholders, representing to our remuneration arrangements are being ANNUAL STATEMENT over 50% of the register, as well as the key advisory proposed.
These are reflected in a new Remuneration organisations.
Importantly, as well as describing Policy and Long-Term Incentive Plan to be put before the proposals in detail, we were clear about shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on the alternatives considered and rejected by the 23 July 2015.
If approved, they will come into effect Committee, and transparent on the estimated from that date.
Details of our proposals are set out impact of the proposals on the total target below and in the Remuneration Policy Report on remuneration of the Chief Executive and Chief pages 61 and 67.
I believe that we have both Financial Officer.
This is approximately 6% and presented our proposals fairly and listened carefully 2% respectively, excluding an inflationary pay to the views of shareholders during this process.
increase which we also confirmed would apply Summary of our proposals to both.
In April 2012, in light of the reshaping of the Boards The discussions were constructive, and whilst responsibilities, we took the opportunity to create a some investors raised queries with certain aspects of consistent remuneration structure for the Executive the proposals for example, seeking assurance that Directors, reducing the quantum of variable pay, the new LTIP performance targets will be sufficiently increasing the weighted length of the vesting period stretching, the clarity with which the proposals were and introducing malus provisions into our annual and presented was welcomed, and investors generally long-term incentive arrangements for the first time.
understood why they were felt to be necessary.
Since then, the expectations of institutional investors The increased shareholding guidelines, additional have developed and best practice has moved on.
holding period and the introduction of clawback, We have taken the opportunity to review our in particular, received strong support.
As a result of arrangements, in consultation with the Committees concerns expressed by some investors, we made a independent advisers, New Bridge Street.
Our key revision to our proposal on the proportion of the overarching objective has been to better align LTIP award vesting for in-line performance, which we remuneration with our strategy, recent investor have reduced from our original proposal of 25% of guidelines, and the long-term success of the the total award to 20%.
We have also sought to maintain target The conclusion of the consultation process was total remuneration that is around the median that all of the shareholders who responded indicated amongst our listed peer group and other listed their intention to support the proposals at this years companies of comparable size.
I hope that all shareholders will feel able to changes are as follows: support the proposals, on the basis that they are sufficiently well explained, and help to achieve the Simplification of the long-term incentive objectives outlined above.
arrangements through the cessation of awards under the Matching Share Plan MSP and Performance over the year compensating increases in share awards under a Whilst the Committee has been engaged on the single new Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP revisions to our remuneration framework, the teams Certain adjustments to the Total Property Return within the business have been actively focused on and Total Shareholder Return performance criteria meeting the continued demand for space in the right and targets, to make them a fairer and more robust locations across the Groups portfolio.
The Board is reflection of relative performance confident that we are making the right decisions to deliver superior returns to shareholders through the The introduction of an additional two year holding property cycle.
period for shares vesting under the LTIP An increase in the share ownership guideline levels for the Executive Directors Committee members Strengthening of the contractual recovery and withholding malus and clawback provisions in relation to awards made under the annual bonus Simon Palley Chairman and plan and LTIP Independent Non-executive A reduction in the annual on-target bonus level and Details of member appointments and biographies, Director the introduction of more stretching targets and full attendance at Committee meetings held during the year, appear on pages 40, 41 and 44, Dame Alison Carnwath An increase in the annual base pay of the Chief respectively.
Executive after three years successful performance Chris Bartram The Committees terms of reference are available on in the role.
Edward Bonham Carter the Companys website at www.
com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 059 Annual bonus In aggregate, therefore, the 2012 awards will vest at With specific focus on the year under review, our 84.7% of the maximum.
This compares to a 62.5% teams have produced an outstanding performance vesting last year in respect of the 2011 LTIP awards.
against the annual bonus plan measures which can Focus during the year be summarised as follows: As described above, the main focus of the our measure of Total Property Return versus the Committees work over the year has been on the market using the IPD Quarterly Index weighted to management of the proposed changes to the the sectors in which the Group is invested has executive remuneration structure, and the been a tough challenge, due to the continued consultation process with shareholders.
In reaching outstanding performance of small central London agreement on what should be presented to lot sizes which make up the majority of the London shareholders, active discussion took place at every Offices part of the index.
This puts into perspective stage, including over a number of alternatives that our Total Property Return of 23.3% adjusted considered and discarded.
for trading properties and the capital and income The Committee has also overseen the work extracted from Queen Annes Gate, SW1, through conducted by the executive team to review the a bond issue in 2009, representing a 3.1% annual bonus arrangements for the Group as a outperformance against the index, is an excellent whole, although this work does not directly impact achievement: the bonus structure for Executive Directors.
The revenue profit has remained robust, up 3.0% on members of the Committee were very keen to last year at 329.1m against a backdrop of the ensure that these new arrangements would drive disposal of some weaker higher yielding assets, the right behaviours and activities from employees combined with the income from the development at all levels in the organisation and, in particular, programme not yet coming into full effect.
The would align the interests of the senior management team has remained focused on development below the Board with those of shareholders.
lettings, keeping control of voids, and disciplined As part of its executive remuneration review, management of both recoverable and nonthe Committee also focused on the external recoverable costs: and benchmarking of base pay for the two Executive Directors, and for other key members of the the team has also delivered an impressive Executive Committee.
It examined carefully the data performance against the key business targets provided from external sources before concluding agreed at the beginning of the year, including that a 4% increase was justified for Robert Noel, over record levels of office development lettings in and above a standard inflationary pay increase for London and strong progress in pre-letting our this year of 2%.
This review was planned and proposed shopping centres in Oxford and Glasgow.
committed to at the time of his appointment in 2012 We only fell short on one planning milestone in and took into account the performance of the Group the year.
It was also very pleasing to see the versus its peers and his total pay relative to other achievement of the target of securing employment chief executives in the sector.
An inflationary for 125 young people through our Community increase of 2% has been awarded to Martin Employment Programmes.
This all-round excellent performance has created bonus outturns which are higher than last year.
Looking forward I am confident that the changes we have proposed, Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP as reflected in the new Remuneration Policy, will Turning to the LTIP and the share awards granted in ensure that the leaders of Land Securities remain 2012 that vest in July this year, we have performed focused on delivering superior returns for very well against the two relative measures, each of shareholders.
Whilst they continue to be stretching, which makes up a maximum of 50% of the total the revisions to the performance criteria and targets award.
As I said last year, relative measures mean should also provide a better reflection of relative that even in a year when profits are high, the rewards performance.
Actions such as the introduction of the from the LTIP may be low if our competitors have post-vesting holding period, the increase in the performed more strongly.
Equally, in very tough shareholding guidelines and the tightening of the market conditions, the rewards could be higher malus and clawback provisions, will all contribute when outperformance has been significant, even if to a longer-term focus from the team on behalf of absolute returns are lower.
In relation to the 2012 shareholders.
This will be critical in the context of the LTIP awards: cyclical and changing nature of our core markets.
against a very tough IPD benchmark, as described above, we outperformed the Total Property Simon Palley Return over the three year performance period to Chairman, Remuneration Committee 31 March 2015 by 1.0% per annum, and therefore this portion of the award will vest in full 50% of the total : and in relation to Total Shareholder Return, our performance has also been strong over the same three year period with 2.3% per annum outperformance versus the comparator group.
This means that 69.4% of this portion of the award will vest 34.7% of the total.
060 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Summary of main changes proposed to the current executive remuneration structure Unaudited Table 29 Current position Proposed change Rationale for change Matching Share Plan MSP Executives receive an annual award of Land Executives will no longer participate in the MSP but will Simplification of the long-term incentives into one plan, the LTIP.
Some Securities shares equal to 150% of base salary instead, on a compensatory basis, receive an increased award shareholders had previously objected to the MSP on the basis that it subject to the maximum investment being under the new LTIP.
added too much complexity made, with the same performance measures The MSP is being retained for Senior Management to encourage them and weightings as the LTIP.
to increase their shareholdings in the Company and to act as a retention tool.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Executives receive an annual award of Annual awards will increase from a maximum of 150% to 300% Increase reflects the loss of MSP awards in the future Land Securities shares equal to 150% of of base salary base salary.
An additional holding period of two years which also applies The additional holding period is in line with the best practice post-employment will be introduced following the expiry of the expectations of investors and encourages a long-term focus by the three-year performance vesting period.
50% of the total award is tested against relative No change.
TSR and TPR are the performance metrics most closely aligned to the Total Shareholder Return TSR and 50% against interests of shareholders Total Property Return TPR performance.
Other measures, such as relative net asset value performance, were considered but discarded as they were not sufficiently robust to give a true reflection of relative performance.
TSR the proportion of the award vesting for Reduce to 20% The reduction in the proportion of the award vesting for in-line in-line performance is set at 30% performance will incentivise a focus on outperformance The relative outperformance target for Reduce to 3% per annum.
The Group has delivered very strong TSR performance in the past three maximum vesting is currently 4% per annum.
years and this has not been properly reflected in the LTIP vesting outturns A target of 3% outperformance per annum is broadly consistent with an upper quartile performance over the last ten years.
TPR the proportion of the award vesting for Reduce to 20% The reduction in the proportion of the award vesting for in-line in-line performance is set at 25% performance will incentivise a focus on outperformance The benchmark is currently weighted to the Widening the benchmark to include all March-valued properties, The broader index is much larger and includes properties owned by largest sectors within the Companys portfolio increasing the total benchmark value from 70bn to 145bn, more comparable organisations thereby including a much broader range of commercial property As it is not sector weighted, the new benchmark measures the decisions taken by management to invest or not in all sub-sectors of commercial property 1% per annum outperformance over the No change.
The target of 1% outperformance per annum is broadly consistent with threeyear performance period for maximum upper quartile fund performance versus the IPD benchmark.
Annual bonus Maximum bonus opportunity of 150% of base Reduce the target expected value to 75% of salary i. e. 50% of The reduction in the target bonus level will help to ensure that salary, with a target expected value of 90% of maximum and require the achievement of more stretching payments are commensurate with performance base salary i. e. 60% of maximum targets to achieve the same outturns, in particular for revenue profit Company performance measure versus IPD The benchmark for this element of the bonus will change to Alignment of the measure of TPR with the LTIP aids simplicity benchmark match the one proposed for the LTIP as above, including a The TPR measure is still considered very challenging and therefore it is payment for in-line performance appropriate to award a small proportion for matching the benchmark, thereby ensuring that it retains focus by management and employees.
Shareholding requirements and clawback Current shareholding requirements to be The increases and extensions are in line with current investor sentiment achieved normally within five years of and encourages closer alignment between the interests of the appointment : Executives and shareholders Chief Executive 200% of base salary Increase to 250% of base salary As part of the shareholder consultation process we agreed to review the shareholding guidelines again at the same time as the Remuneration Chief Financial Officer 150% of base salary Increase to 200% of base salary Policy is next reviewed, likely to be in 2018.
Existing malus provisions permit recovery from Extending recovery provisions for monies paid under the annual unvested awards.
bonus plan and awards vested under the LTIP in the event of material misstatement, fraud or gross misconduct.
These provisions will remain active for two years post payment or vesting.
Chief Executives base salary Set at 95% of median on appointment in 2012.
Increase base salary by 4% plus an inflationary increase of 2% The change recognises the increase in the Chief Executives Since then, increases have been at the annual with effect from 1 June 2015. responsibilities the number of Executive Directors has reduced from rate of pay increase for employees generally.
four to two, and success in the role since appointment The increase also reflects a competitive positioning versus a market benchmarking exercise undertaken.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 061 3.
Consideration of shareholder views DIRECTORS remuneration policy The Committees objective is to maintain strong The Committees primary objective when setting the relationships with shareholders and shareholder REMUNERATION remuneration policy is to provide competitive pay bodies and to encourage them to share their arrangements which promote the long-term success thoughts with us.
The Committee values investors POLICY REPORT of the Company.
To achieve this, the Committee views in the process of formulating remuneration takes account of the responsibilities, experience, policy decisions and has consulted extensively with performance and contribution of the individual, as major shareholders in setting the Policy.
Introduction to the Policy Report well as levels of remuneration for individuals in Committee will continue to spend time each year This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets comparable roles elsewhere.
The Committee also considering feedback received at the AGM and out the remuneration policy for the Company and takes into account the views expressed by throughout the year as part of the ongoing review has been prepared in accordance with The Large and shareholders and institutional investors best of policy.
We are very grateful for the time and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts practice expectations, and monitors developments assistance shareholders give us.
The Policy places significant As described in the Remuneration Committee Policy has been developed taking into account the emphasis on the need to achieve stretching and Chairmans Annual Statement, the Committee principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code rigorously applied performance targets, with a undertook a comprehensive review of the current Code and the views of our major shareholders.
significant proportion of remuneration weighted executive remuneration policy during the year, to The Policy Report will be put to a binding shareholder towards performance-linked variable pay.
ensure it remains appropriate and fit for purpose vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM on The Company does not formally consult with in light of both the Companys strategy and 23 July 2015 and the new Policy will take formal employees on executive remuneration.
However, developments in best practice expectations of effect from the date of approval replacing the when setting the remuneration policy for Executive investors.
In doing so, it has engaged with previous policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 Directors, the Committee takes into account the shareholders holding more than 50% of the AGM.
It is intended that the Policy will be in force for overall approach to pay and employment conditions Companys shares, as well as the leading shareholder a period of three years from the date of approval.
Salary increases for the advisory organisations.
The role of the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors will not typically exceed Policy resulting from the review are as follows: in setting policy in percentage of salary terms those of the simplification of the long-term incentive The Committee is responsible for: wider workforce.
arrangements with the discontinuation of the engaging with shareholders with regard to Matching Share Plan MSP remuneration and ensuring that their views are the maximum award limit under the new taken into account when setting policy Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP will be 300% of determining the overall strategy for the salary the same as the normal combined award remuneration of Executive Directors and Senior under the previous LTIP and MSP Management some adjustments have been made to the ensuring the policy is aligned with, and promotes performance targets and criteria within the LTIP the delivery of the Companys strategy introduction of a two-year holding period for ensuring the outturn of performance metrics shares post vesting under the new LTIP reflects the performance of the business strengthening of the recovery and withholding determining the individual remuneration packages provisions in the annual bonus plan and LTIP for Executive Directors and Executive Committee a reduction in the target value of the annual bonus members plan to 50% of maximum from 60% overseeing any significant changes to employee an increase of 50% of salary to the share ownership remuneration across the Group guideline levels for Executive Directors.
approving the design of performance-related incentive plans overseeing the operation of all incentive plans and awards and determining whether performance criteria have been met in confirming vesting or maturity.
Remuneration policy 5.1 Summary of the individual elements of the remuneration package offered to Executive Directors Remuneration policy Unaudited Table 30 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Base salary To aid the Reviewed annually, with effect from 1 June, and reflects: For 2015 16, the annual base salaries of The Committee has the recruitment, retention the Executive Directors are 753,596 discretion to determine Increases throughout the rest of the business and motivation of Chief Executive, and 490, 549 Chief the precise amount of Market benchmarking exercise undertaken periodically to high performing Financial Officer, representing a 6% and base salary within the ensure salaries are set at around the median of the market Executives 2% increase respectively Policy, including competitive level for people in comparable roles with similar approving the salary for To reflect the value The maximum annual salary increase will levels of experience, performance and contribution a newly-appointed of their experience, not normally exceed the average increase Changes in the scope of a Directors role may also require a Director.
It will also skills, knowledge across the rest of the workforce 2015 16 further adjustment to salary.
determine whether and importance to 3%.
Higher increases will be exceptional, there are specific the business.
and made in specific circumstances, reasons to award salary including: increases greater than Increase in responsibilities or scope of those for the wider the role workforce.
To apply salary progression for a newly appointed Director Where the Directors salary has fallen below the market positioning.
Benefits Directors receive a combination of: The value of benefits may vary from year The Policy will always To provide protection and market to year depending on the cost to the apply as stated, unless Car allowance Company.
there are specific competitive benefits Private medical insurance to aid recruitment and individual Life assurance circumstances why retention of high Ill health income protection performing Executives.
Holiday and sick pay Professional advice in connection with their directorship Travel, subsistence and accommodation as necessary Occasional gifts, for example appropriate long service or leaving gifts.
Pension To help recruit and Participation into a defined contribution pension scheme or Directors receive a pension contribution The Policy will apply retain high performing cash equivalent.
or cash allowance of 25% of salary.
Executives To reward continued contribution to the business by enabling Executive Directors to build retirement benefits.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 063 Remuneration policy continued Unaudited Table 30 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Annual bonus To incentivise the delivery of All measures and targets are reviewed and set by the Minimum bonus The Committee has the discretion to set stretching, near-term business Board at the beginning of the year and payments are payable is 0% of targets and measures each year targets and personal determined by the Committee after the year end, based salary The outturns for the Group element of the performance objectives on performance against the targets set Maximum bonus bonus plan are calculated formulaically and To reward near-term Specific measures and targets will be set each year, but potential is 150% therefore the Committee has no discretion outperformance relative to will always include a measure of Total Property Return of salary.
to adjust these, unless it feels it is necessary industry benchmarks versus that of the market to adjust them down Specific measures and targets, Other measures and targets will reflect the most critical The Committee does have the discretion to for example successful business performance indicators for the year ahead, and award appropriate bonus payments under planning applications and will be both specific and measurable.
Revenue Profit the individual element maximum 20% of asset management initiatives, performance will always feature as a key measure base salary to reflect the performance and will provide future contribution of an individual Director The achievement of on-target performance should result opportunity for the business in a payment of 50% of the maximum opportunity Within the Policy, the Committee will retain and will increase the value of i. e. 75% of salary flexibility including: our properties in the short A small proportion no more than 20% of base salary of a When to make awards and payments term Directors bonus is based on the Committees assessment How to determine the size of an award, Other KPIs, such as of the achievement of pre-set personal performance a payment, or when and how much of development lettings targets, objectives an award should be payable are likely to have a significant The structure of the plan incentivises outperformance by Who receives an award or payment impact on capital growth ensuring that the threshold targets are stretching Whether a departing Director should and long-term revenue profit Bonuses up to 50% of salary are paid in cash receive a bonus and whether and what performance Any amounts in excess of 50% of salary are deferred into proportion of awards should be paid at the The ability to recognise shares for one year time of leaving or at a subsequent date performance through variable Any amounts in excess of 100% of salary are deferred into Whether a departing Director should be remuneration enables the shares for two years treated as a good leaver in respect of Group to control its cost base deferred bonus shares flexibly and react to events Deferred shares are potentially forfeitable if the Executive and market circumstances How to deal with a change of control or leaves prior to the share release date any other corporate event which may Deferral of a portion of annual Bonus payments are not pensionable require adjustments to awards bonuses into shares Withholding and recovery provisions malus and encourages a longer-term To determine that no bonus, or a reduced clawback apply where any overpayment was made as focus aligned to shareholders bonus, is payable where the performance a result of a material misstatement of the Companys interests and discourages of the business has been poor, results or a performance condition, or where there has excessive risk-taking.
notwithstanding the achievement of been fraud or gross misconduct, whether or not this objectives.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Incentivises value creation The Committee may make an annual award of shares Normal and current The outturns of the LTIP are calculated over the long term in excess of under the LTIP award policy limit is formulaically and therefore the Committee that created by general 300% of salary.
has no discretion to adjust these, unless it Vesting is determined on the basis of the Groups market increases determines they should be adjusted down.
achievements against stretching performance targets over a fixed three year period and continued employment.
Rewards execution of our Within the Policy, the Committee will retain There is no re-testing strategy and the long-term flexibility including: The Committee reviews the measures, their relative outperformance of our When to make awards and payments competitors weightings and targets prior to each award How to determine the size of an award, The measures selected are relative and directly aligned to Aligns the long-term interests a payment, or when and how much of an the interests of shareholders.
50% of an award is weighted of Directors and shareholders award should vest to a measure of Total Property Return versus the industry Promotes retention.
Who receives an award or payment benchmark over a three year period and 50% to Total Whether a departing Director is treated Shareholder Return versus our listed comparator group as a good leaver for the purposes of the over a three year period LTIP and whether and what proportion of For each measure, no awards vest for performance below awards vest at the time of leaving or at a that of the benchmark.
Only a proportion 20% will vest subsequent vesting date for matching the performance of the benchmark and significant outperformance is required for the maximum How to deal with a change of control or award to vest any other corporate event which may Awards will be satisfied by either newly issued shares or require adjustments to awards.
shares purchased in the market and any use of newly issued shares will be subject to the dilution limits contained in the plan rules or approved by shareholders Executive Directors are required to hold vested shares for a further two years including post employment following the three year vesting period expiry Withholding and recovery provisions malus and clawback apply where any overpayment was made as a result of a material misstatement of the Companys results or a performance condition or where there has been fraud or gross misconduct, whether or not this caused the overpayment.
064 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 Remuneration policy continued Unaudited Table 30 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE Scheme To encourage all employees to All employees, including Executive Directors, are entitled The maximum The Policy will apply as stated make a long-term investment to participate in the SAYE Scheme operated by the participation levels Within the Policy, the Committee will retain in the Companys shares, Company in line with UK HMRC guidelines currently may vary in line the flexibility to determine whether a prevailing.
through a savings-related with HMRC limits.
departing Director should be treated as arrangement.
participants may save up to 500 per month for either three and or five years, using their accumulated savings at the end of the period to purchase shares at a 20% discount to the market price at the date of grant.
Share ownership guidelines To provide close alignment Executive Directors are expected to build up and In exceptional circumstances, the between the longer-term maintain shareholdings in the Company with a value Committee may extend the period by which interests of Directors and set at a percentage of base salary: share ownership levels are required to be shareholders in terms of the achieved by up to two years.
Chief Executive 250% of salary Companys growth and Other Executive Directors 200% of salary performance.
These levels are normally required to be achieved within five years of appointment in order to qualify for future long-term incentive awards.
Deferred or unvested share awards not subject to performance conditions may count towards the ownership levels on a net-of-tax basis.
5.2 Previous arrangements 5.3 Discretion with the outcomes for shareholders.
Any specific For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy The Committee will operate within the Policy at circumstances which necessitate the Report, authority is sought by the Company to all times.
It will also operate the various plans and use of discretion will always be explained clearly honour any outstanding commitments subject to schemes according to their respective rules and in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.
existing terms, conditions and plan rules as applicable consistent with normal market practice and the Please see the previous table for more detail on entered into with current or former Directors that Listing Rules as applicable.
Within the Policy, the the discretion allowed for each element of the have been disclosed to shareholders in previous Committee will retain the discretion to look at reward package.
Details of any payments to performance in the round, including withholding, or former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report deferring payments in certain circumstances where on Remuneration for the year in which they arise.
the outcomes for Directors are clearly misaligned Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 065 6.
Fixed and variable pay reward scenarios 6.1 Total opportunity at maximum and target levels Our aim is to ensure that superior rewards are only paid for exceptional performance, with a substantial proportion of Executive Directors remuneration payable in the form of performance-related pay.
The charts that follow illustrate the remuneration opportunity provided to each Executive Director at different levels of performance for the coming year.
percentages are of the maximum.
Maximum value does not include share price movement between Maximum value does not include share price movement between grant and vesting of long-term incentives.
grant and vesting of long-term incentives.
In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Fixed and variable pay assumptions Unaudited Table 33 Fixed pay Consists of the latest base salary, benefits and pension allowances Pension allowance calculated at 25% of new base salary.
Outturn Base Benefits Pension Total fixed 000 000 000 000 Robert Noel, Chief Executive 754 20 189 963 Martin Greenslade, Chief Financial Officer 491 19 123 633 On-target award Based on what a Director would receive if performance was in line with expectations: Annual bonus pays out at 50% of the maximum LTIP vests at 50% of the total award.
Maximum award Annual bonus pays out in full LTIP vests in full.
6.2 Payment schedule The following table illustrates in which financial years the various payments in the above charts are actually made released to Executive Directors.
The table assumes that the annual bonus payment is equivalent to at least 100% of salary.
Payment schedule Unaudited Table 34 Financial year Base year Base year 1 Base year 2 Base year 3 Base year 5 Element of Base salary The annual bonus The first deferred The final portion of the Holding period on LTIP remuneration received.
targets are measured portion of the annual annual bonus awards shares ends.
Benefits and the first portion of bonus between 50% in excess of 100% of Pension.
the annual bonus up and 100% of salary is salary is released as to 50% of salary is released as shares.
The LTIP share awards vest remainder is paid in but remain subject shares and deferred.
to a two year holding period.
Annual bonus cash and deferred shares and vested and unvested LTIP shares are subject to withholding and recovery provisions.
Directors Service Agreements and Letters 7.3 Policy on the remuneration of newly 7.4 Chairman and Non-executive Director of Appointment appointed Executive Directors Letters of Appointment 7.1 Service Agreements Executive Directors The remuneration package for a new externallyThe Chairman and the Non-executive Directors do The Executive Directors have Service Agreements appointed Executive Director would be set in not have Service Agreements with the Company.
with the Company which normally continue until accordance with the terms of the Companys Each of them has a Letter of Appointment which the Directors agreed retirement date or such other approved remuneration policy in force at the time sets out the terms of their appointment.
The date as the parties agree.
In line with Group policy, of appointment.
The Policy, as described above, on appointment of a Chairman or Non-executive the Executive Directors employment can be base salary will apply, but the Committee has the Director can be terminated, by either party, upon terminated by either party on giving 12 months flexibility to set the salary of a new hire at a discount three months prior written notice.
The dates of the prior written notice.
to the market level initially, with a series of planned current Letters of Appointment of the Non-executive The Company allows Executive Directors to increases subject to performance in the role Directors are shown in the Annual Report on hold external non-executive directorships subject implemented over the following few years to bring Remuneration and the Letters are available for to the approval of the Board, and to retain fees from the salary to the desired positioning.
Only in very inspection at the Companys registered office.
exceptional circumstances will the salary of a newly On appointment, the fee arrangements for appointed Director exceed the market median Non-executive Directors would be set in accordance 7.2 Termination provisions Executive Directors benchmark for the role.
with the approved remuneration policy in force at An Executive Directors Service Agreement may be The annual bonus would operate in accordance that time.
terminated without notice and without further with the terms of the approved policy, albeit with the payment or compensation, except for sums earned opportunity pro-rated for the period of employment up to the date of termination, on the occurrence in the first year.
Depending on the timing and of certain events such as gross misconduct.
The responsibilities of the appointment, it may be circumstances of the termination taking into necessary to set different performance measures account the individuals performance and an and targets initially.
The LTIP would also operate in individuals opportunity to mitigate losses are taken accordance with the Policy.
The maximum level of into account by the Committee when determining variable pay that may be offered to a new Executive amounts payable on termination, including pay in Director is thus at an aggregate maximum of 450% lieu of notice.
The Groups normal approach is to of salary.
This limit does not include the value of stop or reduce compensatory payments to former any buy-out arrangements deemed appropriate Executive Directors when they receive remuneration see below.
from other employment during the compensation In addition to the elements of the remuneration period.
The Company does not make any package covered by the Policy, the Committee arrangements that guarantee pensions with limited may buy-out certain existing remuneration of an or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
incoming Executive Director through the offer of There are no special provisions for Executive either additional cash and or share-based elements Directors with regard to compensation in the event on a one-time basis or ongoing when it considers of loss of office.
these to be in the best interests of the Company.
Any share-based entitlements granted under the Any such payments would be based solely on Companys share plans will be determined on the remuneration lost when leaving the former employer basis of the relevant plan rules.
The default position is and would take into account the existing delivery that any outstanding unvested awards automatically mechanism i. e. cash, shares, options, time horizons lapse on cessation of employment.
under the rules of the LTIP, in certain prescribed In the case of an internal appointment, any circumstances such as redundancy, disability, variable pay element awarded in respect of the retirement, or other circumstances at the discretion prior role would be satisfied according to its terms, of the Committee taking into account the adjusted as relevant to take into account the individuals performance and the reasons for their appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing departure, good leaver status can be applied.
For remuneration obligations existing prior to example, if an Executives role has effectively been appointment would continue, provided that they made redundant, and there are no significant are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest performance issues, the Committee is likely to look opportunity.
favourably on the granting of some good leaver For external and internal appointments, the provisions.
However, if an Executive has resigned for Committee may agree that the Company will meet a similar role in a competitor organisation, then such certain relocation expenses, on a one-time basis, as provisions are extremely unlikely to apply.
Where a Director is recruited from good leaver provisions in respect of share awards overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits are deemed to be appropriate, a participants awards that take account of market practice in their country should vest on a time pro-rata basis subject to the of residence.
The Company may offer a cash amount satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria with on recruitment, payment of which may be staggered the balance of the awards lapsing.
The Committee over a period of up to two years, to reflect the value retains discretion to decide not to pro-rate if it is of benefits a new recruit may have received from a inappropriate to do so in particular circumstances.
For the avoidance of doubt, if the termination of Shareholders will be informed of the employment is not for one of the specified reasons, remuneration package and all additional payments and the Committee does not exercise its discretion to newly appointed Directors at the time of their to allow an award to vest, all outstanding awards appointment.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 067 8.
Non-executive Director remuneration policy Non-executive Director remuneration policy Unaudited Table 35 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Base fee To aid the recruitment, retention The Chairman is paid a single fee for all Board duties and the The current fees for Non-executive Directors are shown in and motivation of high performing the Annual Report on Remuneration other Non-executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with Non-executive Directors supplementary fees payable for additional responsibilities Non-executive Director fees are typically reviewed annually To reflect the time commitment Reviewed but not necessarily changed annually by the Board, but increased every two to three years given by Non-executive Directors having regard to independent advice and published surveys Any increases reflect relevant benchmark data for to the business.
The Chairmans fee is also reviewed by the Board rather than the Non-executive Directors in companies of a similar size and Remuneration Committee.
complexity, and the time commitment required.
Additional fees To reflect the additional time Reviewed but not necessarily changed annually by the Board, The opportunity depends on which, if any, additional roles commitment required from having regard to independent advice and published surveys.
are assumed by an individual Director over the course of Non-executive Directors in chairing their tenure various Board Committees or Any increases reflect relevant benchmark data for becoming the Boards Senior Non-executive Directors in companies of a similar size Independent Director.
and complexity, and the time commitment required.
Other incentives and benefits Non-executive Directors do not receive any other incentives n a or benefits beyond the fees noted above.
Expenses in relation to Company business will be reimbursed If deemed necessary, and in the performance of their duties, Non-executive Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Share ownership guidelines To provide close alignment between The current share ownership guidelines require Non-executive the longer-term interests of Directors to own shares in the Company with a value of 100% of Directors and shareholders in terms annual fees within three years of appointment.
of the Companys growth and performance.
Group-wide remuneration 9.2 Senior management 9.3 Other employees 9.1 Base pay In addition to the Executive Directors, there are Other employees are also entitled to participate in The average base salary increase awarded across five members of the Executive Committee who the Companys annual bonus plan, and are also the workforce provides a key reference point when report into the Chief Executive, namely the two eligible to be considered for an award from a determining levels of increase for the Executive Managing Directors for London and Retail, the Group discretionary bonus pool of 1.0m, with awards Directors.
In setting the pay budget for the wider Human Resources Director, the Group General typically made to no more than 10% of the Groups workforce, the Committee reviews data on pay Counsel and Company Secretary, and the newly employees.
The awards are usually not more than settlements within the UK economy, the rate of appointed Director of Corporate Affairs and 30% of base salary and are made on the basis of an inflation and pay rates for equivalent roles in similar Sustainability.
There is also a group of 15 managers at exceptional single achievement or outstanding companies.
Executive Directors generally receive an the level below the Executive Committee considered all-round performance.
increase equivalent to the average, unless there has to be part of senior management.
None of these In addition, all employees are entitled to receive been a change in scope or responsibilities, significant managers receive a salary or total remuneration private health insurance, life assurance, and a travel development of an individual into the role, or there is package which is higher than those paid to the season ticket loan.
They can also participate in the a specific market reason for a different level of award.
The structure of their Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme, remuneration packages, including LTIPs and annual under which invitations are normally made annually.
bonuses, is broadly consistent with that of Executive An Executive Share Option Plan is open to those Directors, albeit at a lower quantum.
However, we management staff not eligible to participate in have also chosen to retain a matching share the LTIP.
arrangement for this group, in the interests of encouraging share ownership and as a retention tool.
Senior management below the Board may be given the opportunity to purchase shares up to a certain value normally 12.5% to 37.5% of gross base salary, and these will then be matched by the Company on a 2:1 basis.
Matching awards are subject to the same performance conditions as exist under the LTIP.
Dates of appointment for Directors DIRECTORS Unaudited Table 36 REMUNERATION Name Date of appointment Date of current contract Executive Directors REPORT ANNUAL Robert Noel 1 January 2010 23 January 2012 REPORT ON Martin Greenslade 1 September 2005 9 May 2013 1 REMUNERATION Non-executive Directors Dame Alison Carnwath 1 September 2004 13 May 2015 David Rough stepped down on 18 July 2014 2 April 2002 29 April 2004 The Annual Report on Remuneration Kevin OByrne 1 April 2008 13 May 2015 describes how we intend to apply the Chris Bartram 1 August 2009 13 May 2015 proposed new policy for the financial year Simon Palley 1 August 2010 13 May 2015 ahead from 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 Stacey Rauch 1 January 2012 13 May 2015 and how the current policy has been applied Edward Bonham Carter 1 January 2014 13 May 2015 for the financial year ended 31 March 2015, including all payments made or accruing to Cressida Hogg 1 January 2014 13 May 2015 Directors in connection with the year.
1. Letters of Appointment for the Non-executive Directors have recently been amended in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code and best practice, including the extension of notice periods to three months from either party.
During the course of the year, the Committee was engaged with a number of key matters, including: shaping the revisions to the Remuneration Policy described in the previous section, and sharing these with investors and the key advisory bodies overseeing revisions to the annual bonus arrangements for the Group as a whole, which are now more aligned with the arrangements for Executive Directors determining salary increases for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members, together with overall levels of salary increases across the Group setting and subsequently reviewing the outcomes for business unit and personal targets under the annual bonus plan for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members reviewing the outcomes for achievement against the performance conditions of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Matching Share Plan MSP determining proposed share incentive awards to Executive Directors, Executive Committee members and senior leaders determining Directors compliance with the Companys share ownership guidelines.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 069 2.
The application of policy for the year ahead This section sets out how we intend to apply our Remuneration Policy over the course of the financial year commencing 1 April 2015.
2.1 Directors salaries On his appointment in March 2012, Robert Noel was informed that his salary would be reviewed after two to three years in post depending on satisfactory performance.
At that time, his salary was set at around 95% of the median benchmark considered for similar sized real estate and utility companies and at around 80% of the median benchmark considered for similar sized pan-sector FTSE 100 companies.
The Committee therefore determined that it was appropriate to undertake a peer group benchmarking exercise this year for both Executive Directors.
The benchmarking analysis was conducted in consultation with the Committees independent remuneration advisers, New Bridge Street, and the following key points were noted by the Committee: total remuneration was assessed on the basis of on-target pay rather than on the basis of actual amounts of pay awarded in the year, given the volatility of outturns total remuneration was defined as base salary, value of pension and benefits, on-target bonus and theoretical expected value of long-term incentives data was examined for two peer groups using information sourced from publicly available data: a Sector Group comprising all FTSE 350 real estate companies excluding estate agencies and a FTSE General Group comprising companies of a comparable market capitalisation to Land Securities the Chief Executive was benchmarked against the higher paid of the Chief Executive and full-time Executive Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer was benchmarked against other Chief Financial Officers.
In reviewing the Chief Executives salary, and in addition to the benchmarking data, the Committee took into account Robert Noels success in post, and the increase in his executive responsibility arising from a reduction in the number of Executive Directors from four, immediately prior to his appointment in 2012, to two in 2014.
It therefore proposed an increase of 4% to his base salary, in addition to a standard inflationary award of 2%.
This increase is consistent with the Committees overall aim of setting salaries at or below the median benchmarks for listed real estate and similarly sized utility companies, as well as companies of a comparable size drawn from across all sectors more generally.
After reviewing the data for the Chief Financial Officer, the Committee concluded that no additional increase was necessary for Martin Greenslade and that he should receive an inflationary uplift of 2% to his base salary.
The salary increases shown below will take effect from 1 June 2015: Executive Directors Unaudited Table 37 Average % increase over From five years Current 1 June 2015 including Name 000 000 % increase 2015 16 1 Robert Noel 711 754 6.0 3.6 Martin Greenslade 481 491 2.0 3.1 1.
Robert Noels average increase over three years, to reflect his tenure as CEO.
Non-executive Directors Following a review of fees for Non-executive Directors undertaken in September 2013, the Board again decided not to increase these fees over the course of the year.
They remain as shown in the table below, and we believe them to be both competitive and reflective of the time commitment given.
Non-executive Directors Unaudited Table 38 As at 31 March 2015 NED fees annual 000 Chairman 350.0 Base fee 67.5 Audit Committee Chairman 17.5 Remuneration Committee Chairman 12.5 Senior Independent Director 10.0 2.2 Pensions and benefits Pensions and benefits arrangements will continue to operate as per the Policy outlined in the previous section.
No significant changes are anticipated to the monetary value of these benefits, apart from those that are linked to base salary levels, for example, pension allowances.
070 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 2.3 Variable pay As described in the Policy Report, the maximum outturn on variable pay will remain at 450% of base salary, comprising 150% for annual bonus and 300% for awards under the single LTIP.
Awards will no longer be made to Executive Directors under the MSP.
As part of these proposed changes, we have also made some adjustments to the performance criteria and targets within both the annual bonus plan and LTIP, described in detail in table 39.
In the case of the LTIP, the changes are designed to be a fair and transparent reflection of the Groups relative performance, and to align individual rewards with performance and returns to shareholders, relative to our peers.
The new criteria and targets will apply to awards made under the new LTIP from 2015 onwards.
A full description of the terms of the new LTIP is contained in the Notice of AGM as required by the UKLA when a share plan is put to shareholders for their approval.
If approved, the new LTIP will be operated in accordance with the Policy as set out in the previous section.
The rules have been simplified from those approved in 2005 by shareholders but are otherwise broadly similar in the way they operate.
For all awards made under the LTIP and MSP prior to 2015, the existing policy and plan rules will apply.
In the case of the annual bonus, we have aligned the measure of Total Property Return with the LTIP and reset the revenue profit target, five years after the baseline was set in 2010.
We have not included some of the specific business plan targets for this years annual bonus plan as they are commercially sensitive, but we have laid out clearly the performance measures we will use.
This is a longer list than in previous years, reflecting the Committees wish to take a more in the round view of performance, and also reflecting the bonus arrangements for the Group as a whole, where our objective is to have a clear line of sight between the achievement of performance targets at a Group level and individual outturns.
Details of the specific business plan targets for 2015 16 will be disclosed in next years report when we explain the outturn of this years annual bonus.
2.4 Performance targets for the coming year Performance targets for the coming year Unaudited Table 39 Metric Link to strategy and value for shareholders Performance measure Target Long-Term Incentive Plan Total Shareholder Rewards our outperformance of the returns Measured over a period of three financial years: Outperformance of the Return 50.0% of generated by our listed company peers index by 3% or more per The Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR overall award.
annum for maximum Encourages efficient use of capital through good relative to an index weighted by market vesting.
sector allocation and appropriate gearing capitalisation based on a comparator group comprising all of the property companies within Based on a market capitalisation of 9.9bn, 3% per the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index except Land annum outperformance over three years would Securities generate approximately 917m of value for shareholders over and above that which would have 10% of the overall award vests for matching the been received had we performed in line with our index, and 50% of the overall award for comparator group of property companies within outperforming it by 3% per annum.
Vesting is on the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
a straight-line basis between the two.
Ungeared Total Rewards sustained outperformance by our portfolio Measured over a period of three financial years: Outperformance of the Property Return compared with the industrys commercial property benchmark by 1% or more The Groups ungeared Total Property Return 50.0% of overall benchmark per annum for maximum TPR relative to the IPD benchmark comprising award.
Incentivises increasing capital values and rental all March-valued properties.
Total benchmark income value c. 145bn Capital value growth is reflected in an increased net 10% of the overall award vests for matching the asset value, which is the measure with the strongest benchmark and 50% of the overall award vesting correlation to share price where we outperform the benchmark by 1% per annum.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis On the basis of a portfolio with a value of 14.0bn, between the two.
1% per annum outperformance over three years generates approximately 424m of value beyond that which would have been received had the portfolio performed in line with the benchmark.
Annual bonus Ungeared Total Rewards annual outperformance by our portfolio The Groups ungeared Total Property Return Outperformance of the Property Return compared with the industrys commercial property TPR relative to an IPD benchmark comprising benchmark by 2% for 26.0% of award, or benchmark all March-valued properties.
value c. 145bn Incentivises increasing capital values and rental income 6% of the overall award for matching the benchmark, and 26% of the overall award for Capital value growth is reflected in an increased net outperforming the benchmark by 2%.
Payment asset value, which is the measure with the strongest is on a straight-line basis between the two.
correlation to share price On the basis of a portfolio with a value of 14.0bn, 2% outperformance would generate approximately 280m of return over and above the returns of commercial property within our sectors.
Absolute growth in Encourages above inflation growth in income profits, Once the Group has met a threshold level on Will be confirmed in 2016 revenue profit 26.0% year-on-year, on the basis of a new three year plan revenue profit, a portion 5% of the excess is Report.
of award, or 39.0% of set in 2015 contributed to the bonus pool for the Group.
will be capped at 26% of the overall award.
An Adjustment for significant net investment adjustment -3% is made for net investment disinvestment gives a like-for-like view of disinvestment activity above 500m.
performance Encourages sustainable dividend growth and cover over the medium-term.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 071 Performance targets for the coming year continued Unaudited Table 39 Metric Link to strategy and value for shareholders Performance measure Target Annual bonus specific business targets Development lettings A key driver of income and revenue profit in the Specific threshold and stretch targets have Will be confirmed in 2016 15.8% of award, or 24.0% future been set for both the London and Retail Report.
Proves the value of the development and drives capital growth.
London Residential Sales Reflects the important contribution of our Specific targets have been set for individual Will be confirmed in 2016 1.8% of award, or 2.6% residential pipeline in London.
Key disposals according Ensures that assets likely to underperform are sold, Specific assets in both London and Retail Will be confirmed in 2016 to plan 3.5% of award, before they impact the returns to shareholders.
have been earmarked for sale over the Report.
Project Milestones, Ensures that momentum is maintained behind the Specific planning targets have been set for Will be confirmed in 2016 Planning 3.5% of award, delivery of key projects critical to the delivery of individual assets in both London and Retail.
Project Milestones, Ensures that momentum is maintained behind the Achievement of milestones to specified Will be confirmed in 2016 Development 3.5% of delivery of key projects critical to the delivery of budgets and timescales, applied to specific Report.
projects across London and Retail.
Management of the Building further flexibility into the secured lending A specific target has been set around the Will be confirmed in 2016 Groups secured lending pool.
concentration of assets within the secured Report.
pool 1.8% of award, or lending pool.
Further development of the Demonstrates the commitment to a more diverse Specific targets have been set around the Improvement in specific culture of Land Securities and customer-focused culture as a key driver of embedding of the purpose, goal, vision and engagement survey scores, with a focus on diversity business performance.
Progress to be demonstrated against improvement in certain 1.8% of award, or 2.6% diversity metrics.
Completion of mandatory Demonstrates a clear commitment to Health and A specific target has been set around 100% of mandatory Health and Safety training Safety practices as a key measure of high quality mandatory Health and Safety training for all training completed within 1.8% of award, or 2.6% delivery at all levels and in all areas.
employees within six months of joining.
Community Employment A key way in which Land Securities can deliver on A target has been set around securing 170 candidates into Programmes 1.8% of its commitment to the communities in which it permanent employment for an increased permanent employment, award, or 2.6% of salary.
operates, and create a sustainable future by building number of candidates via our Community either inside the Group or a skilled workforce.
Individual targets for Ensures that each Director focuses on his individual A mix of short-term and long-term Will be confirmed in 2016 Executive Directors contribution in the broadest sense, aligned with, individual goals set at the beginning Report.
13.0% of award, or but not limited to, specific business targets of the year.
Encourages a focus on personal development.
072 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 2.5 Savings Related Share Option Scheme We will again this year be providing all employees, including Executive Directors, with the opportunity to participate in the Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
This allows them to make fixed monthly savings for a period of either three and or five years, at the end of which they can use their accumulated savings to purchase Land Securities shares at a discount of 20% to the market price at the date of grant.
In line with government regulations, the monthly contribution amount was increased last year from 250 to 500 for invitations made after 6 April 2014.
2.6 Directors interests Audited Details of the Directors interests, including those of their immediate families and connected persons, in the issued share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out in the table below.
It also shows the value of each Directors interest compared to the value required to be held under the Companys share ownership guidelines.
Using the closing share price of 12.53 on 31 March 2015, the actual value of holding plus value of net deferred bonus shares.
Requirement for the Chief Executive to own shares with a value of 2.5 x base salary within five years of appointment.
Requirement for other Executive Directors to own shares with a value of 2.0 x base salary within five years of appointment.
Requirement for Non-executive Directors to own shares equal to 1.0 x the annual fee within three years of appointment.
Between 31 March and 18 May 2015, the date on which this report has been signed, there have been no changes in the Directors interests except in relation to Dame Alison Carnwath.
Her interests increased to 144,585 ordinary shares through the acquisition of an additional 695 shares on 10 April 2015 under the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
2.7 Outstanding share awards held by Directors Audited The table below shows the share awards made to Executive Directors which have not yet vested.
It also shows those awards under both the LTIP and MSP that vested during the year.
They are not subject to performance conditions as the scheme is available to all employees and HMRC rules do not permit performance conditions for this type of scheme.
The options were not exercised during the year to 31 March 2015, and therefore no gains are shown.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme Audited Table 42 Number of options Number of Number of granted in year options at options at Exercise price to 31 March Exercise price Number Market price 31 March Exercisable 1 April 2014 per share p 2015 per share p exercised at exercise 2015 dates 08 2015- Martin Greenslade 1,559 577 1,559 02 2016 08 2017- 1,060 848.5 1,060 02 2018 2,619 3.
Remuneration outcomes for Directors during the year In this section, we explain the pay outcomes for Directors in relation to the financial year ending on 31 March 2015.
Tables 43 and 44 show the payments we expect to make and then tables 45 and 46 give more detail on how we have measured the performance outcomes with respect to the annual bonus and LTIP in the context of value created for shareholders.
3.1 Directors emoluments Audited The basis of disclosure in the table below is on an accruals basis.
This means that the annual bonus column includes the amount that will be paid in June 2015 in connection with performance achieved in the financial year ending 31 March 2015.
The values shown for Long-Term Incentive Plan awards in 2014 15 are calculated using the average share price for the quarter ended 31 March 2015.
The actual price is not known at the time of writing as the awards do not formally vest until June and July 2015.
Basic salary is stated as per annum figure.
Actual salaries in the year were 708,050 Robert Noel, 478,975 Martin Greenslade.
Benefits consist of the provision of a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance premiums.
The pension allowance shown is a cash allowance of 25% of base salary.
The long-term incentives for 2014 15 have been calculated using a share price of 12.48 which is the three-month average to 31 March 2015.
The long-term incentives vesting in 2013 14 were estimated in last years report and so have been adjusted to reflect the actual share price on the date of vesting.
The impact of the adjustment was 2,000 for both Robert Noel and Martin Greenslade.
David Rough stepped down from the Board in July 2014.
074 Land Securities Annual Report 2015 3.2 Annual bonus outturn In the year under review, each Executive Director has had the potential to receive an annual bonus of up to 150% of his base salary.
Of this, 130% was dependent on meeting Group targets and 20% dependent on meeting personal targets.
All targets were set at the beginning of the year.
The following table illustrates the Group targets and the respective outcomes.
Annual bonus outturn Unaudited Table 45 % of % of base salary base salary Target maximum Assessment awarded 1 Ungeared Total Property Return.
39.0 The adjusted Land Securities Total Property Return for the year 23.3% 39.0 exceeded that of the IPD benchmark by 3.1%.
Share in long-term real growth in Group revenue profit.
c. 39.0 Revenue profit for the year 329.1m significantly exceeded the base level 39.0 of 258.9m last years threshold of 251.3m increased by 3% inflation.
After certain adjustments, 5% of the resulting excess profit of 70.2m 3.51m has been contributed to the bonus pool.
Under the terms of the current plan, there is no upper cap on the outperformance, and the outturn exceeds the maximum shown.
However, this year, in the context of a strong all-round performance, the Committee determined that a cap should be placed on this element of the plan, and therefore it paid out at the maximum level of 39.0% of base salary.
Key business targets Development, refurbishment and conditional lettings.
31.2 The outturn is calculated on the basis of a threshold target of 28.6m.
31.2 Achievement is calculated on a straight-line basis from threshold to the maximum target 43.5m of development lettings The Group secured relevant lettings for the year of 47.6m.
Planning milestones were set for five specific London and 10.4 The outturn is calculated on the basis of a threshold target of three out of 5.2 Retail assets.
five milestones achieved, with the maximum at five out of five.
The milestones were achieved for four out of five of the assets specified, and therefore 50% of the award is payable.
Community Employment Programmes a target was set to secure 5.2 Employment was secured for 157 candidates on the London programme 5.2 permanent employment for 125 candidates on the London training and the programme was expanded to the Retail development at Westgate, programme, and expand the programme to suitable developments Oxford.
Nine positions were also secured as a result of the partnership with in Retail.
Management of the secured lending pool the target was to 5.2 The London geographical concentration was increased to 100% of the 5.2 improve the geographical concentration limits within our secured secured lending pool, building in more flexibility for the future.
lending pool for London assets to at least 80%.
Total Group Elements 124.8 Executive Director individual targets Each Director received a number of individual targets, which 20.0 Each Executive Director was scored by the Remuneration Committee on the basis of objectively measurable targets set at the beginning of the year.
included: The outturn was as follows: The articulation of a new vision and purpose for the Group Robert Noel 17.0 The embedding of the new Executive Committee as a high performing team Martin Greenslade 17.0 Putting in place a new revolving credit facility.
TOTAL 150.0 Robert Noel 141.8 Martin Greenslade 141.8 1.
The outturn is adjusted to take account of the performance of trading properties and the capital and income extracted from Queen Annes Gate, SW1, through a bond issue in 2009.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 075 3.3 Long-Term Incentive Plan and Matching Share Plan outturns The table below summarises how we have assessed our LTIP performance over the three year financial period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015.
Awards under the LTIP for this period are subject to performance conditions that measure and compare the Groups relative performance against its peers in terms of Total Property Return TPR and Total Shareholder Return TSR, with each measure representing 50% of the total award.
Please see table 30 for more detail on how vesting levels are determined.
The performance calculation for awards granted in 2012 and vesting in 2015 are illustrated below: Long-Term Incentive Plan and Matching Share Plan outturns Unaudited Table 46 Outturn Target % of base salary maximum Assessment % of maximum 1 The Land Securities Total Property Return outperformed that of the Ungeared Total Property Return 75 75 maximum shares pledged.
50 sector weighted IPD Quarterly Universe by 1.0% per annum over the three year period.
Therefore, the maximum 50% of the total award vests.
The Land Securities Total Shareholder Return over the three year period Total Shareholder Return 75 75 maximum shares pledged.
34.7 was 93.5%, outperforming that of the comparator group see below, which was 86.6%.
On a per annum basis, this equates to 2.3% and therefore 34.7% maximum 50% of the total award vests.
In total, therefore, awards made in 2012, and measured over the three year period to 31 March 2015, will vest in July 2015 at 84.7% of the maximum.
For awards granted in 2013, the Groups performance over the two years to 31 March 2015 would, if sustained over the three year period to 31 March 2016, result in 62.3% of the LTIP and MSP share awards vesting.
For awards granted in 2014, performance over the one year period to 31 March 2015 would, if sustained over the second and third years of the period to 31 March 2017, result in 50% of the LTIP and MSP share awards vesting.
As proposed to apply for awards made under the new LTIP subject to shareholders approval.
Remuneration outcomes for Directors during the year continued 3.4 Individual outcomes by Director Unaudited Table 49 Robert Noel Chart 48 Chief Executive Outturn Percentage 6,000,000 Maximum of maximum 5,243,000 potential achieved 5,000,000 4,685,000 Element of pay 000 % 000 Base salary 711 n a 711 4,000,000 3,148,000 Pension 178 n a 178 3,000,000 Benefits 20 n a 20 2,000,000 1 Annual bonus 1,000,000 909,000 924 96.0 887 Group element Individual element 142 85.0 121 0 1 Fixed pay On-target Maximum Actual 2 Long-term incentives 3,268 84.7 2,768 Basic salary 15.2% Annual bonus 21.5% Total 5,243 4,685 Pension 3.8% Long-term incentives 59.1% Benets 0.4% 1.
355,470 of the annual bonus will be deferred into shares for one year and 297,060 for two years.
Value calculated on basis of average share price for the three months to 31 March 2015 - 12.48.
Percentages are of the actual.
240,465 of the annual bonus will be deferred into shares for one year and 201,029 for two years.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2015 077 4.
Comparison of CEO pay to Total Shareholder Return The following graph illustrates the performance of the Company measured by Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus dividends paid against a broad equity market index over a period of six years.
As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index, this is considered to be the most appropriate benchmark for the purposes of the graph.
An additional line to illustrate the Companys performance compared with the FTSE 100 Index over the previous six years is also included.
Below this chart is a table showing how the single number of remuneration for the Chief Executive has moved over the same period.
It should be noted that Robert Noel became Chief Executive in March 2012.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Source: Thomson Reuters Chief Executives remuneration over six years Unaudited Table 53 Annual bonus Long-term Single figure award against incentive vesting of total maximum against amount 1 remuneration opportunity awarded Year Chief Executive Officer 000 % % 2015 Robert Noel 4,685 94.5 84.7 2014 Robert Noel 2,274 71.0 62.5 2013 Robert Noel 2,678 86.0 76.1 2012 Francis Salway 2,769 24.0 85.9 2011 Francis Salway 1,798 39.0 27.5 2010 Francis Salway 1,694 34.0 50.0 1.
Under the policy covering the years 2010-2012 shown in the table, bonus arrangements for Executive Directors comprised three elements: an annual bonus with a maximum potential of 100% of basic salary, a discretionary bonus with a maximum potential of 50% of basic salary and an additional bonus with a maximum potential of 200% of salary.
The first two elements were subject to an overall aggregate cap of 130% of basic salary, with the overall amount of the three elements capped at 300% of basic salary.
2012: 73.4% of the maximum opportunity was awarded under the annual bonus with no awards made under the discretionary bonus or additional bonus.
2011: 94.5% of the maximum opportunity was awarded under the annual bonus, discretionary bonus of 60% of the maximum opportunity with no awards made under the additional bonus.
2010: 77% of the maximum opportunity was awarded under the annual bonus, discretionary bonus of 50% of the maximum opportunity with no awards made under the additional bonus.
The context of pay in Land Securities 5.1 Pay across the Group a.
Senior management During the year under review, bonuses including discretionary bonuses for our 20 most senior employees ranged from 40% to 166% of salary 2014: 43% to 102%.
The average bonus was 93% of salary 2014: 71%.
The LTIP awards made to senior management vested on the same basis as the awards made to Executive Directors.
All other employees The average pay increase for all employees, including the Executive Directors, was 3.0%.
Including salary adjustments and promotions for employees below the Board, this rose to 3.5%.
The ratio of the salary of the Chief Executive to the average salary across the Group excluding Directors was 12:1 710,940:59,670.
Pay across the Group Unaudited Table 54 Salary Benefits Bonus % Change % % % Chief Executive 6 No change 37 Average employee 3 No change 23 5.2 The relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows the total spend on pay for all Land Securities employees when compared with our returns to shareholders in the form of dividends: Unaudited Table 55 March 2015 March 2014 Change Metric m m % 1 Spend on pay 58.1 55.1 5.5 2 Dividend 247.0 236.5 4.4 1.
Including base salaries for all employees, bonus and share awards at face value.
See notes to the financial statements.
Dilution Awards granted under the Companys long-term incentive arrangements, which cover those made under the LTIP, MSP, Deferred Bonus Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan are satisfied through the funding of an Employee Benefit Trust administered by an external trustee which acquires existing Land Securities shares in the market.
The Employee Benefit Trust held 1,012,983 shares at 31 March 2015.
The exercise of share options under the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is open to all employees who have completed more than one months service with the Group, is satisfied by the allotment of newly issued shares.
At 31 March 2015, the total number of shares which could be allotted under this scheme was 441,560 shares, which represent significantly less than 1% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Remuneration Committee meetings The Committee met four times over the course of the year, and all of the members attended all meetings.
Simon Palley chaired the Committee, and the other members during the year were Dame Alison Carnwath, Chris Bartram and Edward Bonham Carter.
The Committee meetings were also attended by the Group Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director, and the Group Company Secretary who acted as the Committees Secretary.
Over the course of the year, the Committee received advice on remuneration and ancillary legal matters from New Bridge Street, a trading name of AON plc.
It has also made use of various published surveys to help determine appropriate remuneration levels and relied on information and advice provided by the Group Company Secretary and the Group Human Resources Director.
New Bridge Street has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives is independent and objective.
Aside from some support in benchmarking roles below the Board for pay review purposes, New Bridge Street has no other connection with the Group.
For the financial year under review, New Bridge Street received fees of 129,000 in connection with its work for the Committee.
The Committee also received legal advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in relation to various share plan matters and they received fees of 36,000 for their services during the year.
Results of the vote on the Directors Remuneration Report at the Land Securities AGM for 2014 The votes cast on the resolutions seeking approval for the Directors Remuneration Report at our 2014 AGM were as follows: % of votes % of votes Number of votes 1 Resolution For Against Withheld To approve the Policy Report forming the first part of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 99.05 0.95 955,981 To approve the Annual Report on Remuneration forming the second and final part of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 99.67 0.33 959,720 1.
A vote withheld is not a vote at law.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 May 2015.
Simon Palley Chairman, Remuneration Committee
