Governance Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee RemCo The RemCo are aware that if remuneration awards to the executives, nonexecutives and employees are not aligned to both performance and market rates the Company may risk losing key personnel.
assisted by Towers Watson, leading global Introduction experts in such matters, who advised on the In 2014 the Company, which is registered in three main aspects of the awards for the newly the IOM, voluntarily reported on Directors appointed executives: remuneration for the first time under the UK regulations of Schedule 8 of the Large the fixed element: basic salaries and benefits and Mediumsized Companies and Groups that are market competitive and will attract Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, and retain suitable executives: asamended in August 2013. the shortterm incentive: a bonus to A remuneration policy was presented to be awarded subject to the executives Shareholders and detailed the Companys policy performance meeting personal key on remuneration for the next and subsequent performance indicators KPI and financial financial years.
The policy was approved by KPI targets for earnings, cash flow and 99.66% of Shareholders who voted at the AGM net asset value, thus aligning awards with in January2015, and took immediate effect.
shareholder returns: and A resolution proposing an increase to the the long term incentive plan LTIP : aggregate fees paid to Nonexecutive Directors executives will receive rolling annual share to 420k was also approved by 98.77% of those awards subject to a threeyear performance Shareholders who voted.
The Companys strategy is to increase Shareholder returns in the long The Company will voluntarily submit the policy term, subject to market conditions, and for shareholder approval either every three years The Company will therefore awards will only vest if the or if any material changes are proposed.
voluntarily submit the Companys TSR lies between the median No material changes have been proposed to the and upper quartile of the TSRs for EPRA policy for this year.
policy for shareholder NAREIT Developed European index and a bespoke UKlisted comparator group over a The remuneration policy approval either every threeyear period.
A summary of the executive remuneration policy three years or if any can be found on pages 58 to 60.
The full policy can be found on the Companys website.
material changes The remuneration packages were originally are proposed.
established in December 2013 when management was internalised and the Company converted to a UKREIT.
The RemCo was Michael Farrow Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Composition of the Remuneration Committee During the reporting year the RemCo has comprised three independent Nonexecutive Directors.
Their names and meetings attended are shown below.
Since the year end, but before approval of the Annual Report, two further RemCo meetings have been held, attended by Michael Farrow, Sue Ford and Robert Orr to consider the executives bonuses, LTIP awards and salary reviews.
Meetings Meetings attended post Member Nonexecutive Appointed Resigned attended year end Michael Farrow Independent 23 January 2013 2 2 2 2 Susan Ford Independent 10 September 2015 2 2 Robert Orr Independent 23 April 2015 2 2 2 2 Elisabeth Stheeman Independent 23 April 2015 3 August 2015 2 2 Richard Melhuish Independent 23 January 2013 29 January 2015 0 0 Susan Ford Independent 30 January 2014 23 April 2015 0 0 The RemCo operates within defined Terms of Reference, which can be found on the Companys website.
56 | Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Company information with market rates.
The CFOs salary will not Remuneration awards in respect of Review of remuneration during the be adjusted due to his recent appointment the year ended 31 August 2015 financial reporting year in August 2015.
Contingent LTIP awards, All payments and awards to Directors for the On 1 September 2014, a standard 2.5% salary based on250% of the new salaries, were year ending 31 August 2015 have been made increase was applied to all the executives and granted to the executives and announced on within the limits defined in the policy: employees of the Company.
These LTIPs will vest in 2018, executive salaries a 2.5% increase was However it has been noted that, since the subject to performance measures beingmet.
remuneration packages were established in awarded on 1 September 2014: The Nonexecutive Directors fees have December 2013, the Company has changed executive bonus 55% of base salary remained unchanged in both 2014 and 2015 considerably: increasing its market capitalisation was awarded post year end, based on the at in aggregate c. 300,000 and Towers and becoming a constituent of the FTSE 250 performance of four KPIs: operating cash Watson found that the individual fee levels Index in May 2014.
With the acquisition of the flow, underlying distributable earnings: were significantly below those of other FTSE AUK portfolio in September 2015, the Company growth in adjusted net asset value aligning 250 Index companies.
This was anticipated is due to grow in both size and complexity.
remuneration with shareholder interests and by the RemCo last year and an increase to performance against personal objectives.
The majority of the current Directors have served the nonexecutive fee cap was requested and Executives received an 80% award on the Board since its conversion to a UKREIT approved by Shareholders at the AGM.
Given against their personal KPIs due to their in 2013 and overseen the Companys expansion, the augmented size of the Company and the strong leadership during the year and their the improvement of its portfolio and the steady accompanying additional responsibilities, an communication with Shareholders.
However, increase in dividends to Shareholders.
The increase of 5,000 has been approved by the RemCo granted a maximum award to RemCo are aware that if remuneration awards to the Board for each Nonexecutive Director Stephen Oakenfull against his personal the executives, nonexecutives and employees and 8,000 for the Chairman with effect from objectives target, due to his outstanding are not aligned to both performance and market 1September 2015 bringing aggregate fees to contribution regarding the AUK portfolio rates the Company will be exposed to the risk of 340,500.
This is within the 420,000 aggregate acquisition.
limit set out in the Articles of Association and the executive LTIP a contingent share award During the year the RemCo therefore approved remunerationpolicy.
equivalent in value to 250% of base salary commissioned Towers Watson to report Annual General Meeting was announced on 3 February 2015. on whether the remuneration, for both the Shares will only vest in 2017 subject to The full annual report on remuneration for executives and nonexecutives, was competitive the necessary performance conditions the financial year ended 31 August 2015 can against the market, taking into consideration beingmet: and be found on pages 61 to 65.
The RemCo the time spent, company size, ownership, recommends the report to Shareholders and sector, risk and other company specific factors.
nonexecutive fees no increase was hopes that Shareholders will be supportive at awarded during the year.
Current vesting levels for the LTIP awards were the AGM on 26January2016.
Towers Watson reported that Further details on these payments are disclosed base salaries for the executives were found to in the annual report on remuneration on be below the market norm.
Accordingly, the Michael Farrow pages61 to 65.
RemCo has recommended an above index Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
increase to the executive base salaries from 1 September2015 to bring them more in line Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2015 | 57
