082 SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report Dear shareholder Our remuneration policy sets out our approach to the reward of executive and non-executive directors.
It reflects our aim that Our strong results this year show a growth in overall levels of executive portfolio value to 3.1 billion and growth in remuneration should be fair whilst earnings and income resulting in a 5% increase in maintaining stability in the the annual dividend per share to 13.75p.
TSR, which is one of the measures used in our LTIP, was management of this long-term 36.7% for the year.
Progress has been made business.
The policy we have during the year in advancing a number of schemes in the portfolio.
The refinancing of debt operated throughout this financial facilities due to mature in 2016 was completed year was approved by increasing the Groups financial resources.
Against the backdrop of this performance, the Committees main decisions related to: Review of basic salaries Salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 December 2015 with average increases in the region of 2%, and in line, with salary increases for all employees.
Annual bonus awards Annual bonus awards were measured against our KPIs and other performance objectives which contribute to long-term shareholder value.
The outcome of performance against these targets is 70%.
However, the Committee took into account that the achievement of objectives was made in a year with a continuing buoyant West End economy and felt that an annual bonus award of 60% was more reasonable in the circumstances.
The bonus payment equates to 75% of basic salary if taken entirely in shares, which are held in the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme for three years, or 60% of basic salary if taken in cash.
Ltip A grant of nil cost options was made in December 2014 at 125% of basic annual salary with a three year performance period commencing 1 October 2014.
Vesting will be subject to the same performance criteria that have been applied since the scheme was approved by shareholders in 2006.
Performance is measured by reference to TSR versus the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index and NAV growth.
These performance measures incentivise the creation of value for shareholders and the increase in the value of the Groups portfolio.
The Committee believes that these performance targets remain appropriate and provide a consistent approach to measurement to determine vesting levels in the scheme.
LTIP awards which were made in 2012 will vest in December 2015, based on a three year performance period which ended on 30 September 2015.
The TSR target was partially met and the NAV target was fully met.
The total award vesting is 63.5%.
Review of current arrangements As we reported in 2014, during 2015 we have carried out a review of our current LTIP arrangements, which are due to expire in 2016.
As part of this work, we have reviewed our remuneration policy and made a number of changes.
The principles of our policy remain the same, though we are aware that, in order to attract and retain employees, we need to remain competitive.
The remuneration policy will be proposed to shareholders for a binding vote at the 2016 AGM.
SHAFTESBURY ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE REmuNERAtiON REpORt CONTINUED 083 The changes are summarised below.
Context for the groups remuneration approach Renewal of Ltip Our current LTIP was approved in 2006 and is due to expire in 2016.
The Group has 25 employees, including four executive The Committee believes that the current LTIP has been an directors.
Of those four, three have an average length of important factor in incentivising and rewarding the strong service of 28 years.
The combined holdings of these three performance delivered to shareholders over the life of the scheme.
executive directors stand at just over 2.6 million shares with a The Committee proposes essentially to renew the LTIP, retaining the current market value of circa 25 million, which equates to existing structure, award size and performance targets.
individual holdings of between 21 and 26 times their annual salary.
They have built up these substantial shareholdings The targets for the LTIP were reviewed by the Committee and mainly through the retention of shares awarded in employee have remained identical to those in the existing scheme which share schemes, having taken their annual bonus in shares had been used for the last ten years.
The Committee is in nine out of the last ten years since the Deferred Annual convinced that these targets remain appropriate, as the Share Bonus scheme was introduced and retained shares Company is a long-term business, and feels that the targets remain stretching throughout the property cycle.
introduction of holding period The Groups small team of executive directors and key The only material change is the introduction of a two-year employees all have a close involvement in the continuing post-vesting holding period, in line with best practice.
development, and implementation, of the Groups Clawback and malus management strategies.
Consequently, the Committee Clawback and malus provisions are included in the LTIP.
considers it appropriate that, in setting objectives and measuring performance, emphasis is placed on team The approval of the new plan rules is proposed as a separate item at rather than individual performance.
Average length of the 2016 AGM and further information may be found in the notice of service below the Board is ten years.
management team has again had zero staff turnover and the increasing the annual bonus opportunity to 150% of salary total number of employees increased this year by two.
In reviewing our remuneration policy, the Committee considered all aspects of the current remuneration package against best practice and market data.
To ensure the remuneration package remains competitive in our talent markets, we are proposing to increase the maximum annual bonus opportunity for executive directors from 125% to 150% of salary.
To receive the maximum, participants will still be required to defer all of the award into shares for three years.
The maximum cash bonus will be unchanged at 100% of salary.
Salary levels on which this bonus level is based are not excessive and the change is intended to increase the performance-related element of total potential remuneration, coupled with a demanding deferral period.
The Committee will continue to operate the bonus in a robust manner against genuinely stretching performance targets.
In recent years, bonus awards have been in the range of 40%-75%.
The annual bonus scheme, and the LTIP are offered to all employees in the Company, and we use both schemes as a mechanism to encourage share ownership and alignment with shareholder interests.
increasing the share ownership guideline from 100% to 200% of salary In line with current market practice, we propose to increase our shareholding guidelines for executive directors to a minimum of 200% of salary.
Sally Walden Chairman Remuneration Committee
