SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and the summary below is presented for ease of reference.
The Remuneration Policy is reproduced in full in the 2013 Annual Report pages 74 to 86 and can be found on the Companys website www.
The summary below should be read in the context of the full Remuneration Policy, which contains footnotes that form part of the Remuneration Policy and help to explain elements of the Remuneration Policy.
Summary of approach to Remuneration Policy Objective To attract, retain and motivate quality leaders capable of making a major contribution to the Companys success whilst avoiding paying more than the Remuneration Committee considers necessary.
Implementation The Remuneration Committee considers a variety of factors, including remuneration packages available at comparable companies, overall Company performance, internal relativities, achievement of corporate objectives, individual performance and experience, published views of institutional investors and general market trends and performance.
Performance-related Generally, two-thirds of Executive Director total target remuneration excluding pension and benefits is elements considered to be appropriate.
Limits and flexibility Sufficient flexibility is retained to act in the interests of shareholders and the Company.
Limits will not lead to pressure on reward levels and the Remuneration Committee adopts a suitably conservative approach.
Executive Directors Remuneration Element and overview Opportunity Base Salary Subject to a maximum of 850,000 per annum.
Paid monthly in cash in Reviews account for factors such as market conditions, salary increases to other Group employees and arrears comparison against both a relevant property peer group and a market capitalisation group selected by the Remuneration Committee.
Pensionable Benchmarking considers base salary as well as total remuneration and is generally within Reviewed annually by but is not constrained by a range of - 10% of median.
the Remuneration Committee Benefits Subject to an aggregate maximum of 100,000 per annum as measured by the individuals P11D tax calculation or local equivalent for non-UK Executive Directors.
The maximum is increased Contractual and annually by RPI.
non-contractual as appropriate and Benefits include a car allowance or company car, private medical insurance to include spouse life partner, consistent with local permanent health insurance and life assurance.
market practice Hammerson France employees may receive additional benefits including a seniority allowance and an Non-pensionable employers contribution of up to 2,000 per annum to an employee savings scheme.
Where provided by Relocation benefits may include global relocation support maximum 400,000 and or tax equalisation third parties, cost arrangements across all elements of remuneration.
covered by the Company Whilst not considered by the Remuneration Committee to be a benefit in the normal sense, Directors may at market rates participate in corporate hospitality including travel and, where appropriate, with a family member whether paid for by the Company or another, within its agreed policies.
Pension An allowance Pension Choice paid as a combination of any or all of the following, but subject to an aggregate limit of 30% of base salary: Non-contributory allowance subject to a Employer contribution to the Companys defined contribution pension plan: maximum threshold Payment to a Self-Invested Personal Pension Plan: and Salary supplements are A salary supplement.
non-pensionable and do Jean-Philippe Mouton receives a salary supplement and participates in a legacy collective supplementary not qualify for AIP or defined contribution retirement plan operated by his French employing company, which makes employer LTIP entitlements contributions at the annual statutory limit.
No compensation for Pension arrangements are kept under review to ensure they remain appropriate.
public policy or tax changes Company will comply with any local legal obligations in respect of pensions 174 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Element and overview Opportunity Annual Incentive Plan Award: AIP with deferral Maximum opportunity is currently 200% of base salary.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the under the Deferred power to increase this to a maximum of 300%.
Increases above 200% would only occur after appropriate Bonus Share Scheme consultation with shareholders.
DBSS Performance: Annual performanceMeasures and conditions are set annually by the Remuneration Committee.
Performance conditions are based award paid as a assessed over a period of one year and may consist of a combination of financial measures at Group or mixture of cash and divisional level, operational measures and individual performance objectives.
deferred shares The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to include such other measures as it considers to be an Awards subject to appropriate means of assessing performance.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, performance continued employment measures and conditions, once set, will generally remain unchanged for the year.
save in the leaver No further performance targets apply to the deferred shares element, as this represents  per the earned bonuses.
Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to amend the vesting level up or down where Deferred shares are considered appropriate but not so as to exceed the maximum bonus potential.
subject to leaver conditions per the Deferred shares element: Remuneration Policy Representing at least 40% of the total award and delivered under the DBSS but may be delivered under Non-pensionable a different plan with equivalent terms.
Deferred shares are structured as nil-cost share options with a deferral period of no less than two years.
Participants are entitled to a dividend equivalent for the period from the grant date until the vesting date, delivered as additional shares upon transfer.
Clawback and malus: Provisions cover personal misconduct and or where accounts or information relevant to performance are shown to be materially wrong resulting in the payment of a higher bonus than should have been the case.
Long Term Incentive Award: Plan LTIP Maximum discretionary award up to a value of 200% of base salary.
In exceptional circumstances, the Discretionary annual Remuneration Committee can increase this to 300%.
The extent of vesting is determined by the award performance conditions.
Subject to continued Normally structured as nil-cost share options but can take other forms.
Participants are entitled to a employment, save in the dividend equivalent for the period from the grant date to the vesting date, delivered as additional shares leaver circumstances per upon transfer.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to settle awards as cash.
the Remuneration Performance: Policy Minimum performance period of three years.
In practice, the Remuneration Committee has determined Non-pensionable that the minimum period should be four years.
Consisting of a combination of financial and non-financial measures, the Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend: The performance measures and or conditions used: and or The weighting of each for future awards: and or The performance measurement periods.
Performance conditions in respect of outstanding awards can be amended due to exceptional circumstances, provided that the amendment is not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Vesting: Vesting under each performance condition is on a straight-line basis with no more than 25% vesting at threshold performance.
Clawback and malus: Provisions cover personal misconduct and or where accounts or information relevant to performance are shown to be materially wrong and vesting was higher than should have been the case.
refer to Payment for Loss of Office section of the full Remuneration Policy HAMMERSON.
COM 175 Summary of Directors Remuneration Policy continued Element and overview Opportunity Share ownership The Chief Executive is expected to accumulate and maintain a holding of ordinary shares in the Company guidelines equivalent in value to no less than 150% of base salary.
Executive Directors are expected to accumulate a holding of ordinary shares in the Company equivalent in value to no less than 100% of base salary.
Five years to achieve Shares held beneficially by an Executive Director and his spouse life partner as well as those held within the Companys Share Incentive Plan are included in the calculation.
The closing middle market quotation on the last business day in December is used as the basis for calculation.
There is no formal sanction for non-compliance.
All-employee UK-based Executive Directors may participate in the Companys Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan on the arrangements same terms as other employee participants.
The maximum participation level for all staff is set by relevant UK legislation.
France-based Executive Directors may participate in a profit share plan, which is available to all employees of Hammerson France and rewards performance against such measures as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate.
Awards are subject to an annual limit determined by French legislation.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Element and overview Opportunity Fees The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Other Non-Executive Director fees are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Executive Directors.
Paid monthly in arrears in cash Aggregate total annual fees to Non-Executive Directors are subject to the limit in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Remuneration Committee may provide additional fees within the stated limit including for Non-pensionable membership of any additional Board committees that may be established.
Reviewed periodically Fees to the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors are intended to be competitive with other fully listed companies of equivalent size and complexity, but are not set by reference to a prescribed benchmark.
Periodic reviews take into account independent advice and the time commitment required of NonExecutive Directors.
Expenses The Company may reimburse travel and accommodation expenses including to the Companys London office and may settle the liability from any assessment to tax made on such reimbursement.
Additional fees The Chairman receives no additional fee for membership of any of the Committees.
Other Non-Executive Directors may receive additional fees for membership and or chairmanship of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
An additional fee is payable to the Senior Independent Director.
The level of additional fees is set to reflect the responsibilities of the role.
Other benefits No other benefits are currently available to any of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or participation in the Companys share plans.
The Non-Executive Directors may participate in corporate hospitality including travel and, where appropriate, with a family member whether paid for by the Company or another, within its agreed policies.
A departing gift may be provided up to a value of 5,000 plus related taxes per Non-Executive Director on termination of office.
176 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Service agreements: new Executive Directors Overview The Committees approach is for new Executive Directors to have service agreements that have regard to market practice at the date of appointment.
Terms summarised below will be subject to any local statutory or collective bargaining requirements where applicable.
Expiry date and notice No fixed expiry date.
Either party may terminate an appointment by providing 12 months notice.
A longer period initial notice period may be applied by the Company to new appointments for a limited time if the Remuneration Committee considers this appropriate.
Retirement date No default retirement date.
Retirement requests are considered on a case-by-case basis and 12 months notice is anticipated.
Post-termination To protect the Groups confidential information for an appropriate period and to prevent poaching of the restrictions Groups senior workforce and its customer and supplier connections for 12 months after termination.
Payment in lieu of notice Employment can be terminated immediately by paying a PILON comprising base pay, pension, medical PILON insurance and car allowance.
A PILON will not apply on termination for gross misconduct, in which case no compensation will be due.
The Company has discretion to pay on a phased basis, subject to mitigation.
Change of control and No right to liquidated damages on a change of control.
liquidated damages Other appointments External non-executive appointments that do not lead to a conflict of interest are permitted with the consent of the Companys Board of Directors on the basis that such appointments can enhance experience and skills and add value to the Company.
Fees for external appointments can be retained, except where the appointment is as the Companys representative.
Appointment terms: new Non-Executive Directors Overview The Chairman and Non-Executive Director appointments are governed by letters of appointment.
Appointments are for a term of three years.
Letters of appointment are reviewed by the Chairman and the Executive Directors every three years.
Notice period and No less than three months notice must be given by either party.
Immediate termination can occur should a termination conflict of interest arise and appointments will cease automatically at an Annual General Meeting where a Non-Executive Director is not re-elected.
Fees on termination Entitlement is limited to such fees as have accrued at the date of termination, together with the reimbursement of expenses properly incurred prior to that date.
Payment for loss of office: Executive Directors AIP Where notice of termination is given by either the Company or the Executive Director prior to the end of the performance period, or employment ceases due to death, ill-health, injury or disability: bonus entitlement remains, subject to performance conditions.
Any bonus payable is pro-rated, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
Where employment ceases after the end of the performance period, but prior to payment, entitlement to any bonus payment remains if the reasons for employment ceasing are as above but also where the reason for employment ceasing is retirement, redundancy or sale of the company or business for which the Executive Director works.
Unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise at its discretion, no bonus is payable in other circumstances.
DBSS deferred share Deferred share awards lapse where an Executive Director resigns or gives notice: although the element of AIP Remuneration Committee has discretion to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver.
Deferred share awards lapse where dismissal is for cause.
Otherwise, share awards vest in full on the normal vesting date.
The Remuneration Committee can decide to accelerate vesting.
LTIP Good leaver status will be given where employment ceases due to death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy or the sale of the company or business for which he works and awards will vest on the normal vesting date.
Awards remain subject to performance conditions and will be time pro-rated unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
Where employment ceases for any other reason, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver.
