736505 1140 i 55 56 2 21 04 2:41 PM Page 56 Operational review continued has also been a focus during 2003. Business entertainment are only offered or accepted US$1.5 billion 2002: US$1.3 billion.
units are developing and implementing action for conventional social and business Retirement payments and benefits to plans to achieve the targets, consistent with purposes and then only at a level appropriate dependants are provided in accordance with implementation of the standards.
local conditions and good practice.
The total In 2003, there were 341 new cases of pension and other benefits paid in 2003 was occupational disease, equating to a rate of Communities US$278 million 2002: US$211 million.
107 new cases per 10,000 employees Rio Tinto sets out to build enduring 2002: 120. relationships with neighbours.
This is Sustainable development characterised by mutual respect, active Rio Tinto believes that its businesses, Environment partnership, and long term commitment.
projects, operations and products should Wherever possible, Rio Tinto prevents, or Every business unit is required to have contribute constructively to the global otherwise minimises, mitigates and rolling five year community plans which are transition to sustainable development.
remediates, harmful effects of the Groups updated annually.
In 2003, the Group All businesses are required to assess operations on the environment.
completed a series of pilot studies aimed at the sustainable development case for their To do this, the Group seeks to achieving a deeper level of understanding of activities.
Rio Tinto has committed itself to understand the environmental aspects and the linkages between mining activities and integrating the results of the Mining, Minerals impacts of what it does, build what is learned the economies in which they take place.
and Sustainable Development MMSD into systems to manage and minimise those All business units produce their own social analysis of 2002 into the Groups policy and impacts, and set targets for improvement.
and environment reports for local communities, objectives, and developing measures to After significant Group wide consultation, and community assurance of the quality and assess their implementation.
As a founding Rio Tintos environment standards were content of these reports is increasing.
This member of the International Council on finalised and approved for implementation in provides an opportunity for engagement with Mining and Metals, Rio Tinto is participating 2003.
During the year significant work was the community on their views of programmes in dialogue and programmes to advance undertaken to set five year targets to improve sponsored by Group operations.
industry wide progress on key sustainable efficiency of greenhouse gas emissions, Business units managed by Rio Tinto development priorities.
energy use and water withdrawn from the contributed US$70 million to community environment.
Openness and accountability By the end of 2003, 80 per cent of Part of the increase from 2002 about Rio Tinto conducts its affairs in an operations had implemented ISO 14001 or US$7 million was due to exchange rate accountable and transparent manner, an equivalent environmental management movements against the US dollar.
Of the reflecting the interests of Rio Tinto system EMS.
All Rio Tinto operations are total contributions, US$21 million were direct shareholders, employees, host communities required to have a certified EMS by the end of payments made under legislation or an and customers as well as others affected by June 2005: by the end of 2003, 64 per cent agreement with a local community.
of operations had already achieved this.
Policies on transparency, business Fines for infringement of environmental Human rights integrity, corporate governance and internal regulations involved four operations and Rio Tinto supports human rights consistent controls and reporting procedures are totalled US$126,000 2002: two operations with the Universal Declaration of Human outlined in The way we work.
No environmental incidents Rights and Rio Tinto respects those rights in Compliance guidance was issued to provide were classified as critical in 2003. conducting the Groups operations a framework to enable each Group business throughout the world.
to implement and maintain a best practice Land access Rio Tinto also supports the UN Secretary compliance programme which should identify Rio Tinto seeks to ensure the widest possible Generals Global Compact, the US UK and manage risks associated with non support for its proposals throughout the life Voluntary Principles on Security and Human compliance with laws, regulations, codes, cycle of the Groups activities by coordinating Rights and the Global Sullivan Principles.
standards and Rio Tinto policies.
economic, technical, environmental and The Groups Human rights guidance is social factors in an integrated process.
designed to assist managers in implementing Assurance and verification This involves negotiation of mining the human rights policy in complex local To be accountable and transparent, access agreements with indigenous situations.
It was revised and republished in assurance is provided to the Group and landowners: responsible land management 2003 and a case study was provided to the others that Rio Tinto policies are being and rehabilitation: planning for closure: Global Compact on how the guidance was implemented fully and consistently across our developing and implementing a biodiversity developed and promoted around the Group.
strategy: and forming strategic partnerships The overall objective of external assurance with external organisations.
Employment and data verification is to provide assurance Rio Tinto requires safe and effective working that the material in the Social and environment Political involvement relationships at all levels.
Whilst respecting review is relevant, complete and accurate and, Rio Tinto does not directly or indirectly different cultures, traditions and employment in particular, that Rio Tintos policies and participate in party politics nor make payments practices, common goals are shared, in programmes are reflected in implementation to political parties or individual politicians.
particular the elimination of workplace activities at operations.
In 2003, Environmental A Business integrity guidance addressing injuries, and commitment to good corporate Resources Management ERM undertook the bribery, corruption and political involvement values and ethical behaviour.
external assurance and data verification was issued in 2003 to assist managers in In 2003, Group companies employed programme and the results are available in the implementing this policy.
The guidance 29,000 people 2002: 29,000 and together Social and environment review.
covers questions relating to compliance and with Rio Tintos proportionate share of those implementation: gifts and entertainment: the employed by joint ventures and associates, use of agents and intermediaries: and the total was 36,000 2002: 37,000. facilitation payments.
Australia and New Zealand 10,000, North Rio Tinto avoids making facilitation America 10,000 and Africa 6,000 remained payments anywhere in the world.
Bribery in the principal locations.
Gifts and Wages and salaries paid in 2003 totalled 56 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW 736505 1150 57 59 2 23 04 7:24 PM Page 57 Executive committee members 01 Tom Albanese age 46 04 David Klingner age 59 07 Christopher Renwick age 61 Brian Horwood will retire from the Mr Albanese joined Rio Tinto in 1993 Dr Klingner became head of Exploration Mr Renwick has been with Rio Tinto for position of managing director of on Rio Tintos acquisition of Nerco.
He joined the Group as a 34 years and is currently chief executive Rio Tinto Australia in early March 2004 He holds a BS in mineral economics geologist in 1966 and has had a wide of the Iron Ore group.
He is a lawyer after 34 years with the Group.
He is and an MS in mining engineering.
variety of roles both in exploration and and has held several management succeeded by Charlie Lenegan, He held a series of management elsewhere during his 38 years service, positions within the Group, including previously president director of positions before being appointed including managing director of Kaltim commercial director of Hamersley Iron, PT Kelian Equatorial Mining, who chief executive of the Industrial Minerals Prima Coal.
Later he was a Group managing director of Comalco Minerals joined the Group in 1981. group in 2000. executive with Rio Tinto Limited, and Alumina and a Group executive responsible for coal and gold with Rio Tinto Limited.
He was businesses located in Australia, appointed to his current position in 1997.
Indonesia and Papua New Guinea.
02 Preston Chiaro age 50 05 Karen McLeod age 57 08 Andrew Vickerman age 49 Employees Mr Chiaro was appointed chief Ms McLeod was appointed head of Mr Vickerman, previously head of Information on the Groups employees executive of the Energy group in Human Resources for Rio Tinto in 1999.
External Affairs, became head of including their costs, is on pages 56, September 2003.
He is an environmental She joined the Group in 1974 at Comalco, Communication and Sustainable 90, 117 and 133. engineer with Bachelor of Science, working in Aboriginal affairs.
She holds Development in January 2003, with Environmental Engineering and Master degrees in the social sciences and responsibility for both External Affairs of Engineering degrees.
He joined the business management and has held and HSE.
Prior to 1998 he was a Group in 1991 at Kennecott Utah senior positions in human resources, director of Lihir Gold and was Coppers Bingham Canyon mine as business analysis, marketing and responsible for the financial and vice president, technical services.
administrative aspects of the company.
In 1995 he became vice president and He has a BA, MA and PhD from general manager of Boron operations Cambridge University.
He was chief executive of Rio Tinto in 1991.
03 Keith Johnson age 42 06 John OReilly age 58 09 Sam Walsh age 54 Mr Johnson was appointed Group Mr OReilly joined Rio Tinto in 1987, Mr Walsh was appointed chief executive executive diamonds in 2003.
He following 20 years operations of the Aluminium group in 2001. holds degrees in mathematics and experience in Africa and the Middle He holds a commerce degree and management and is a fellow of the East.
A metallurgical engineer by joined Rio Tinto in 1991, following Royal Statistical Society.
He joined profession, he has held a series of 20 years working in the automotive Rio Tinto in 1991 and has held a series management positions, including industry.
He has held a number of of management positions, most recently director of Rio Tinto Technical Services, management positions within the as managing director of Comalco chief executive officer, Lihir Gold, and Group, including managing director Mining and Refining.
head of the former Gold & Other of Comalco Foundry Products, CRA Minerals group, before being appointed Industrial Products, Hamersley Sales head of Technology in 1999. and Marketing, Hamersley Operations and vice president of Rio Tinto Iron Ore. 01 04 07 02 05 08 03 06 09 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 57 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEMBERS
