Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 1 Message from the Chairman Sir Bob Reid Chairman The expansion of our car rental operations together with our investment in longer-term margin improvement projects, provides the platform for the future growth and improved profitability of the Avis Group.
Results overview Strategic development Results in 2003 were significantly affected by the Iraq conflict Our investments are focused on the development of our car and a weaker pricing environment, although targeted sales rental operations and on longer-term margin improvement and promotional activities returned our domestic and intraprojects.
The acquisition of Budget EMEA out of Chapter 11 European business to revenue growth in the second half.
Full and our close relationship with Cendant, who own the global year revenue was 1.7% lower at 1,169 million and included Avis and Budget trademarks, gives us the opportunity to 22 million in respect of the Budget business, 12 million develop two of the worlds global car rental brands across from Centrus and 16 million from a licensee acquisition in our geographic markets.
The investment in the major finance France.
Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional and IT restructuring projects to provide a common IT platform items was reduced to 59.4 million, largely due to the lower and shared service centre will support the development of revenue per day.
Earnings per share before goodwill and both brands, which will retain separate customer identities, exceptional items were 7.8 cents 2002: 16.4 cents.
whilst benefiting from central support synergies.
Exceptional pre-tax costs were 102.0 million of which Employees and Directors 70.3 million related to Centrus, our non-core claims The commitment and dedication of employees throughout management business.
The dynamics of this business have our network has remained high during a very challenging changed significantly since 2000 following a House of Lords year for both businesses.
On behalf of the Board I would ruling on the industrys charging structure.
Despite significant like to express our gratitude for the efforts of such loyal adjustment to Centrus operating model, persistent slow and talented people for the work they are doing to ensure claims collection and the sudden decline of revenues in 2003 our future success.
led us to conclude the business was no longer viable and to the decision to terminate operations in December 2003.
The There have been a number of changes to the Board and unadjusted loss before tax after goodwill amortisation and we are particularly pleased to welcome Murray Hennessy exceptional items was 47.4 million 2002: unadjusted profit as Chief Executive in March 2004 following the resignation before tax 101.8 million and the loss per share on the same of Mark McCafferty.
Alun Cathcart who will succeed me basis was 8.8 cents 2002: earnings per share 13.8 cents.
as Chairman after the Annual General Meeting in May is particularly well qualified to chair the Company through its As previously advised, the Directors are recommending a next phase of development.
Jean-Pierre Bizet is appointed final dividend of 2.6 pence per share, making the full year executive Deputy Chairman in succession to Alun.
We welcome dividend 3.9 pence per share.
The dividend will be paid on Kevin Sheehan as a non-executive Director and would like to 2 June 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of thank Stephen Holmes for his contribution to the Board over business on 12 March 2004. seven years.
Outlook It has been a privilege to serve on the Board and I leave We are not assuming any significant recovery in demand confident that we have the strategies in place to secure the and therefore pricing in 2004.
Nevertheless, against these future growth and improved profitability of the Group.
expectations we continue to control tightly key operational measures and to focus on opportunities to improve the return on our rentals whilst maintaining market share.
Whilst we expect broadly flat operating performance in the underlying Avis business, the turnaround of the recently acquired Budget Sir Bob Reid operation is taking longer than previously foreseen.
