28 Corporate governance overview Corporate governance focuses on the direction and control of companies and, in particular, the role of the Board of Directors and the framework of effective accountability applied by the Board.
Each of them satisfied the sufficient to incentivise and retain the In February 2004, Gordon Cameron was conditions for independence on directors while challenging them to appointed to the role of Chief Executive appointment, and Alan Dalby, Michael drive the growth of the business and Officer.
Gordon combines considerable Lytton and Ross Graham remain to maximise the return to shareholders.
financial experience with a strong independent.
The Board does not consider There are three aspects to their understanding of the Group and the Mr Smith to be independent by virtue remuneration: basic salary and extensive industry knowledge he has of his holding the position of Chairman.
benefits: an annual bonus: and longdeveloped during more than seven In January 2004, Victor Schmitt, Nonterm incentives.
Broadly, salaries are years with Acambis.
He is currently executive Director, who was appointed established in comparison with peer supported by two Executive Directors, to the Board in January 2000 to represent group companies.
The bonus, which Nick Higgins and Tom Monath, who the interests of Baxter International, is based on a percentage of salary, is provide valuable complementary Inc. resigned following the sale of Baxters dependent upon the achievement of knowledge and experience in the areas shareholding in Acambis at the end key objectives set and assessed by the of vaccines, scientific discovery, of 2003.
Long-term intellectual property and business The recent appointment of Ross incentives are operated through sharedevelopment.
A search for a suitable Graham as Non-executive Director based schemes.
The Non-executive Chief Financial Officer is underway, has brought greater independence Directors believe that encouraging following Gordon Camerons recent to the Board and balance to the the Executive Directors to build and promotion from Chief Financial Officer Audit Committee given his recent maintain interests in Acambis shares to Chief Executive Officer.
aligns their interests more closely to The four Non-executive Directors shareholders.
comprise the Chairman, Alan Smith, DIRECTOR REMUNERATION Further information on the Executive and three independent Non-executive In remunerating our Executive Directors remuneration is provided Directors, who have extensive UK and Directors, we aim to strike a balance in the Remuneration report on pages US commercial and biotechnology between a level of remuneration 34 to 41.
CURRENT STRUCTURE OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES 1 2 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE 5 CHAIRMAN: ALAN SMITH CHAIRMAN: ROSS GRAHAM EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: GORDON CAMERON, MEMBERS: ALAN DALBY, MICHAEL LYTTON NICOLAS HIGGINS, THOMAS MONATH, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER: TO BE APPOINTED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: ALAN DALBY 3 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 5 MICHAEL LYTTON, ROSS GRAHAM CHAIRMAN: ALAN DALBY 5 MEMBERS: ALAN SMITH, MICHAEL LYTTON, ROSS GRAHAM NOTES 1 Of the 15 Board meetings held during 2003, 4 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE full attendance by all Directors was achieved CHAIRMAN: ALAN SMITH at eight of those meetings.
5 MEMBERS: MICHAEL LYTTON, ALAN DALBY, ROSS GRAHAM 2 Of the four Audit Committee meetings held during 2003, full attendance by all members was achieved at three of those meetings.
3 Of the six Remuneration Committee meetings held during 2003, full attendance by all members was achieved at all six meetings.
4 Of the two Nominations Committee meetings held during 2003, full attendance by all members was achieved at both meetings.
5 Ross Graham was appointed to the Board of Directors on 25 March 2004.
29 Communication with shareholders We strongly believe in the importance announcements and our e-mail news in the Annual Report by including of good communication with service enables investors to receive additional explanatory notes in the shareholders.
news within moments of it being financial statements.
As a result, We aim to ensure that all issued to the market.
Our website our 2002 report was commended by shareholders, both institutional and provides extensive information about the Proshare Awards in the category individual investors, have full access Acambis and has a dedicated investor of Best annual report for private to information we disclose and that relations section that incorporates a investors, FTSE 500 company.
they have opportunities to meet with number of elements suggested We also received the TechMARK management through one-to-one through feedback received from the Mediscience Best communications meetings or events such as the AGM.
shareholder questionnaire we issued award in 2002.
In addition to complying with the with our 2001 Annual Report.
Our We always welcome enquiries from disclosure regulations required by our analyst briefings or conference calls our shareholders and seek to address listings on London and NASDAQ, we can be accessed via webcasts we these as thoroughly and quickly implement a number of measures to provide on our website.
Our Communications provide information to shareholders.
We believe the Annual Report department, which is the first port of As well as being provided with a copy remains a key information source for call for enquiries, can be contacted on of our Annual Report, all shareholders investors and, for the last three years, telephone number 44 0 1223 275 300 are sent our quarterly results have sought to provide greater clarity or by e-mail at ir acambis.
@ Compliance with the new Combined Code: comply or explain In July 2003, the Financial Reporting under the new Code with which we A statement of whether remuneration Council FRC republished the Combined have not complied during 2003 and consultants have any other connection Code the new Code.
The original where no other reference has been with the Company should be available Combined Code the Combined Code made to this fact in the Annual Report.
issued in 1998 by the Hampel Committee The Board intends to address these The Chairman of the Board should on Corporate Governance was revised areas during 2004 and will provide not sit on the Remuneration Committee.
to include related guidance that had a full comply or explain section B.
2.2 A statement regarding the been issued since 1998: the Turnbull in next years Annual Report.
Some recommendation and monitoring guidance on Internal Control: the aspects have already been addressed performed by the Remuneration Smith guidance on Audit Committees: through the appointment of a third Committee on the level and structure and various items of good practice independent Non-executive Director, of remuneration for senior management, guidance from the Higgs Report.
below Board level, should be included.
The new Code contains main and supporting principles and provisions.
CODE PROVISION C ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The overriding principle of the new ADIRECTORS C. 3.1 The Chairman of the Board should Code is to comply or explain.
3.2 At least half of the Board, excluding not sit on the Audit Committee.
approach enables the Board to explain the Chairman, should comprise C. 3.3 The terms of reference for the its specific reasons for non-compliance independent Non-executive Directors.
Audit Committee should be available with particular parts of the new Code.
4.1 The terms of reference for the on the Companys website.
The new Code is applicable for Nominations Committee should be C. 3.7 An explanation to shareholders reporting years beginning on or after available on the Companys website.
on how the auditor retains objectivity 1 November 2003.
6.1 A statement should be included and its independence is safeguarded, will apply for the financial year on how annual performance evaluation if it provides non-audit services, commencing 1 January 2004.
For of the Board, its committees and its should be made.
this years Annual Report, we have individual Directors has been performed.
complied with the Combined Code D RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS as published in 1998.
The Corporate B REMUNERATION D. 1.2 A statement on how the governance statement on pages 30 B.
1.4 Disclosure of amounts received by Company ensures that the members to 33 provides details of compliance Non-executive Directors in respect of of its Board and, in particular, its with the Combined Code.
Non-executive Directors, develop The following list, although not B.
2.1 The terms of reference for the an understanding of the views intended to be exhaustive, provides Remuneration Committee should be of major shareholders about the a summary of the main principles available on the Companys website.
