Accounting policies ACCOUNTING CONVENTION REVENUE RECOGNITION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT discounted at the current rate of return on a The financial statements are prepared under the Turnover represents amounts invoiced to Research and development expenditure, high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term historical cost convention, in accordance with customers for goods and services, net of including the cost of software products and currency to the liability.
The pension scheme applicable Accounting Standards, the Companies sales taxes.
developed in-house, is expensed in the surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or Act and the accounting policies set out below.
period in which it is incurred.
deficit is recognised in full on the balance sheet Revenue on certain larger composite contracts is net of deferred tax.
Any current or past service recognised on a percentage of completion basis CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY SHARE INCENTIVE SCHEMES cost is recognised within operating profit.
The over the period from delivery of the product to In December 2003 the Urgent Issues Task Force The intrinsic value of the award under the net of the expected increase in the present value customer acceptance.
The degree of completion issued Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts Groups Share Plans is charged as an operating of the schemes liabilities, and the Groups long of a contract is measured using the costs incurred and consequential amendments to Abstract 17 cost over the period of performance of the term expected return on its schemes assets, to date or milestones reached, depending upon Employee Share Schemes.
As a result, the cost employee in respect of which the rights to are included in the profit and loss account as the nature of the individual contract and the of awards made under the share schemes is acquire shares are granted.
The effect of other finance income costs.
Any difference most appropriate measure of the percentage of calculated with reference to the intrinsic value uncertainty as to whether any performance arising from experience or assumption changes completion.
Losses on contracts are recognised as of the award, whereas previously the charge criteria will be met is dealt with by estimating and differences between the expected return soon as a loss is foreseen by reference to the was also determined in relation to the cost of the probability of shares vesting.
on assets and those actually achieved are estimated costs of completion.
the shares that would satisfy the awards.
In The Group operates Inland Revenue approved recognised in the statement of total recognised For all other contracts, revenue from system addition, the cost of own shares held is now SAYE schemes together with equivalent gains and losses.
sales is recognised when a signed contract deducted from shareholders funds.
The Group schemes for overseas employees that allow the exists, delivery to a customer has occurred with has adopted these Abstracts in these financial LEASES grant of share options at a discount to the no significant vendor obligations remaining and statements.
This represents a change in Fixed assets held under finance leases are market price at the date of invitation.
The where the collection of the resulting receivable accounting policy and the 2003 comparative capitalised in the balance sheet and are Group and Company have made use of the is considered probable.
In instances where a figures have been restated accordingly note 35. depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital exemption under UITF Abstract 17 revised significant vendor obligation exists, revenue elements of future obligations under leases are 2003 Employee Share Schemes not to BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION recognition is delayed until the obligation has included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The recognise any compensation charge in respect The Groups financial statements consolidate been satisfied.
No revenue is recognised for interest elements of the lease obligations are of these options.
the financial statements of Misys plc and its multiple deliveries or multiple element products charged to the profit and loss account over the subsidiary undertakings and include the if an element of the contract remains PENSIONS period of the lease.
Rentals paid under operating Groups share of net assets and results of undelivered and is essential to the functionality The Group operates a number of defined leases are charged to the profit and loss account associated undertakings.
of the elements already delivered.
contribution pension schemes covering the on a straight line basis over the lease term.
No profit and loss account is presented for majority of its employees.
The costs of these Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over ONEROUS PROPERTY CONTRACTS Misys plc as permitted by section 230 4 of the period of the contract.
EDI and remote pension schemes are charged to the profit and Provision for onerous lease commitments is the Companies Act 1985. loss account as incurred.
In addition, the Group processing services transaction processing are made based on the Directors best estimate of recognised as the services are performed.
has a closed funded defined benefit pension Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the the net unavoidable lease payments on these scheme in the United Kingdom, as well as a year have been included in the financial Revenue from professional services, such as properties, being the difference between the number of other smaller defined benefit statements using the acquisition method of implementation, training and consultancy, rental due and any income expected to be arrangements outside the United Kingdom.
accounting from the date of acquisition.
is recognised as the services are performed.
derived from the properties being sublet.
The The remaining active members of the closed Subsidiary undertakings disposed of are Within the Financial Services Division, provisions are discounted at an appropriate UK defined benefit scheme now contribute to a included in the financial statements up to the commission revenue received from insurers rate to take into account the effect of the defined contribution section of the scheme.
Accordingly, the profit and based on gross premiums written is presented time value of money.
independent actuarial valuations are carried out loss account, statement of total recognised gross of commission payable to Independent on at least a triennial basis and updated to each gains and losses and statement of cash flows DEFERRED TAXATION Financial Advisers IFAs and is recognised when balance sheet date.
The assets of the schemes include the results and cash flows for the Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of earned.
Annual fees received from certain IFAs are held separately from those of the Group.
Associated undertakings all timing differences that have originated but for industry training, compliance support and are accounted for using the equity method.
Pension scheme assets are measured using not reversed at the balance sheet date where access to Misys networks listing of insurance market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are transactions or events have occurred at that providers and products are recognised over the measured using a projected unit method and relevant subscription period.
50 date that will result in an obligation to pay contracts, currency swaps and interest rate denominated in the functional currency of the INVESTMENTS more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future.
Derivative instruments are considered to operating business to which it relates and is Investments held as fixed assets are stated Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised be hedges because they are used to reduce the retranslated as part of the retranslation of the at cost less provision considered necessary for only to the extent that it is considered more risk profile of an existing underlying exposure in balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries, with any impairment.
likely than not that there will be suitable accordance with the Groups risk management exchange differences taken to reserves.
IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLE AND TANGIBLE taxable profits from which the underlying policies.
When instruments are used for Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 June ASSETS timing differences can be deducted, or where hedging purposes, the Group defers the 1998 has been set off against reserves in the The need for any tangible fixed asset, goodwill or there are deferred tax liabilities against which instruments impact on profit until it recognises year of acquisition as a matter of accounting investment impairment write down is assessed by the assets can be recovered.
the underlying hedged item in the profit and policy.
Merger relief offered by section 131 of a comparison of the carrying value of the asset loss account.
Premiums or discounts arising on Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted the Companies Act 1985, representing the with the higher of net realisable value and value the purchase of derivative instruments are basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply excess of fair value over the nominal value of the in use.
The value in use is determined from amortised over the shorter of the life of the in the periods in which timing differences shares issued in connection with the acquisition estimated discounted future cash flows.
Discount instrument or the underlying exposure.
reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted of subsidiary undertakings, was credited to a rates used are based on the circumstances of at the balance sheet date.
Where forward currency contracts are used to merger reserve.
The merger reserve so created the relevant individual businesses.
hedge an on balance sheet item, the balance was used to write off goodwill up to the level FOREIGN CURRENCIES sheet item is translated at the rate of exchange of the reserve.
On disposal of a previously STOCKS The results and cash flows of overseas contained within the hedge.
Where the acquired subsidiary undertaking any attributable Stocks and contract work in progress are undertakings are translated into sterling at the instrument is used to hedge against future goodwill previously set off against reserves is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable average rates of exchange ruling throughout transactions, gains and losses are deferred until written back to reserves brought forward and value.
In respect of contracts where revenue the period.
The balance sheets of overseas the transaction occurs.
charged through the profit and loss account.
is recognised on a percentage of completion undertakings are translated into sterling at basis, work in progress represents the costs Where an instrument ceases to be a hedge, the rates ruling at the balance sheet dates.
CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION associated with the ongoing contract net of either as a result of the underlying exposure Exchange differences arising on consolidation Where part or all of the amount of purchase amounts invoiced to date, to the extent they which it was hedging being extinguished, or are taken directly to reserves.
Assets and consideration is contingent on future events, are recoverable.
because a future transaction is no longer likely liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are the cost of acquisition initially recorded is a to occur, the instrument is cancelled either by converted at the rates of exchange ruling at the reasonable estimate of the fair value of BORROWINGS termination of the instrument or by matching balance sheet date or at rates specified in amounts expected to be payable in the future.
Borrowings are initially stated as the net it against a new exposure.
The cost of related derivative instruments.
The cost of acquisition is adjusted when revised proceeds, being the principal loan element, termination is recognised in the profit and loss estimates are made, with corresponding net of issue and finance costs.
Issue costs Transactions in foreign currencies are converted account in the period of termination.
Where adjustments continuing to be made to goodwill together with finance costs are allocated to the at the rate ruling at the date of each transaction the instrument is matched by a new until the ultimate outcome is known.
These profit and loss account over the term of the or at rates specified in related derivative instrument, both are valued at the appropriate liabilities are reported under provisions for facility at a constant rate on the carrying value instruments.
Exchange differences are included market rate and any resultant gain or loss is liabilities and charges in the balance sheet.
Accrued finance costs attributable in the profit and loss account where they relate recognised in the profit and loss account.
to borrowings where the maturity at the date to trading transactions.
Exchange differences TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS of issue is less than 12 months are included in arising on foreign currency borrowings, to the INTANGIBLE ASSETS GOODWILL Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accrued charges within creditors due within extent that they are used to provide a hedge Goodwill on acquisitions comprises the excess of accumulated depreciation.
For all other borrowings, accrued against foreign equity investments, are taken the fair value of the purchase consideration over calculated on a straight line basis so as to write finance charges and issue costs are included directly to reserves, together with the exchange the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities off the cost, less estimated residual value of in the carrying value of those borrowings.
differences on the carrying amount of the acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after each asset, over its expected useful life.
1 June 1998 is recognised within fixed assets in rates applied from the date of purchase are: the year of acquisition.
Amortisation is calculated DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Freehold and long leasehold property 2% pa on a straight line basis so as to write off the Derivative instruments are used by the Group Short leasehold property over lease term goodwill over its economic life, depending on solely to reduce or eliminate exposure to foreign Computer and other equipment 10%-25% pa the nature of the acquisition, for a period exchange and interest rate risks.
Derivative Fixtures and fittings 10%-25% pa normally not exceeding 10 years.
Goodwill is instruments used include forward currency 51
