b Pro forma and adjusted earnings per share have been restated to exclude all exceptional items and tax thereon for comparability with 2004.
Previously, exceptional items were classied as either major or minor items and only major items were excluded from the earnings per share calculations.
Mitchells & Butlers 55 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Four year review continued Balance sheet information 2004 2003 2002 2001 m m m m Intangible xed assets 10 11 11 11 Tangible xed assets 3,509 3,522 3,526 3,381 Total xed assets 3,519 3,533 3,537 3,392 Stocks 43 43 49 44 Operating debtors 82 84 82 93 Operating creditors 197 176 167 171 Net current operating liabilities 72 49 36 34 Total operating assets less current operating liabilities 3,447 3,484 3,501 3,358 Provisions for liabilities and charges 2 4 14 13 Net operating assets 3,445 3,480 3,487 3,345 External net debt cash 1,632 1,228 14 15 Balances owed to Six Continents group 831 825 Corporate taxation 59 50 59 81 Deferred taxation 217 203 197 170 Pension prepayment 140 98 61 38 Proposed dividend 34 29 Balances relating to exceptional items 1 4 Net assets 1,642 2,064 2,475 2,322 Cash ow information Pro forma Pro forma 2004 2003 2002 2003 2002 2001 m m m m m m Operating profit 285 275 289 275 289 306 Depreciation and amortisation 108 99 87 99 87 85 Other non-cash items 1 1 4 EBITDA 393 374 375 374 375 387 Working capital movement 26 3 4 3 4 43 Additional pension contributions 40 27 10 27 Other non-cash items 4 Net cash inow from operating activities 383 344 361 344 371 344 Purchase of tangible xed assets 150 151 256 151 256 314 Sale of tangible xed assets 51 48 30 48 30 26 Net capital expenditure 99 103 226 103 226 288 Operating cash ow after capital expenditure 284 241 135 241 145 56 Net interest paid 98 49 43 58 Tax paid 34 44 82 34 Normal dividends paid 44 Issue of ordinary share capital 8 4 Purchase of own shares by employee share trusts 12 Proceeds on release of shares by employee share trusts 1 Special dividends paid 501 Operating exceptional expenditure 4 2 Separation costs paid 1 36 Issue costs paid in respect of securitised debt 22 1 Facility fees paid 15 Disposal of businesses 598 Net cash ow 423 98 20 562 Before exceptional items.
Mitchells & Butlers 56 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Turnover Forward-looking statements Contents 1,560m Both the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement consumer and business spending: changes in consumer Up 4% from 1,504m 2003 2004 and the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 tastes and preferences: levels of marketing and promotional 1 Highlights contain certain forward-looking statements as dened under US expenditure by Mitchells & Butlers and its competitors: 2 Operating and financial review legislation Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 changes in the cost and availability of supplies, keyEBITDA 7 Directors report with respect to the financial condition, results of operations personnel and changes in supplier dynamics: significant 9 Corporate governance and business of Mitchells & Butlers and certain plans and uctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and tax rates: 12 Audit committee report objectives of the Board of Directors of Mitchells & Butlers with the availability and effects of future business combinations, 393m 14 Remuneration report respect thereto.
Such statements include, but are not limited acquisitions or dispositions: the impact of legal and 24 Unaudited pro forma group profit and loss account to, statements made in the Chairmans Statement, the regulatory actions or developments: the impact of the Up 5% from 374m 2003 24 Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements Chief Executives Review and the Finance Directors Report.
European Economic and Monetary Union: the ability 25 Report of the independent auditors These forward-looking statements can be identied by the of Mitchells & Butlers to maintain appropriate levels of 26 Group profit and loss account fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
insurance: the maintenance of Mitchells & Butlers IT Operating profit 27 Statement of total recognised group gains and losses Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, structure: competition in markets in which Mitchells & Butlers 27 Note of historical cost group profits and losses target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, or operates: political and economic developments and currency 27 Reconciliation of movement in group shareholders funds other words of similar meaning.
These statements are based exchange uctuations: economic recession: management 28 Balance sheets on assumptions and assessments made by Mitchells & Butlers of Mitchells & Butlers indebtedness and capital resource 285m 29 Group cash ow statement management in light of their experience and their perception requirements: material litigation against Mitchells & Butlers: 30 Notes to the financial statements of historical trends, current conditions, expected future substantial trading activity in Mitchells & Butlers shares: Up 4% from 275m 2003 55 Four year review developments and other factors they believe to be appropriate.
the reputation of Mitchells & Butlers brands: the level of ibc Forward-looking statements costs associated with leased properties: and the weather.
By their nature, forward-looking statements are inherently profit before tax predictive, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty.
Other factors that could affect the business and financial There are a number of factors that could cause actual results results are described in Item 3 Risk Factors in the and developments to differ materially from those expressed Mitchells & Butlers Form 20-F filed, on 16 March 2004 184m in, or implied by, such forward-looking statements, including, or in any subsequent year, with the US Securities and but not limited to: the future balance between supply and Exchange Commission.
The Company undertakes no Down 8% from 199m 2003 demand for the Groups sites, the effect of economic conditions obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking and unforeseen external events on the Groups business, statements whether as a result of new information, future the availability of suitable properties and necessary licences: events or otherwise.
Net operating cash ow 284m Up 43m from 241m 2003 Earnings per share 22.2p Up 21% from 18.4p 2003 Basic earnings per share 22.4p Up 32% from 17.0p 2003 Total dividend per share 9.5p The Dexter, Ember Inn, Leeds The Dexter pictured on the cover and above operates within the Ember Inns brand, where we aim to create excellent quality local pubs through improvements to the design, Before exceptional items.
furnishings and ttings: broadening the drinks range and menu and offering a range On a pro forma basis.
of community events, ensuring the pub continues to be at the heart of the community.
Before exceptional items and after net capital expenditure.
Design and production Sheppard Day Print Royle Corporate Print Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and 27 Fleet Street, Birmingham B3 1JP Financial Statements Tel: 44 0 870 609 3000 Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
com 2004 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Review and 27 Fleet Street, Birmingham B3 1JP Tel: 44 0 870 609 3000 Summary Financial Statement Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
com 2004 Turnover Glossary Contents 1,560m Amenity: Formats: Same outlet invested like-for-like sales: design, dcor, furniture and facilities outlets where to the customers eye include all managed pubs that Up 4% from 1,504m 2003 that contribute to the environment the business trades without any overt were trading for the two periods and atmosphere of a pub.
branding or badging but the customer being compared.
1 Highlights offer and operating template are 2 At a glance EBITDA managed to dened standards.
4 Chairmans statement AWT Average weekly take : Securitisation: 6 Chief executives review the average sales per pub per week, a means of raising finance secured 8 Pubs & bars 393m calculated as total sales divided by the Gross margin: on identifiable and predictable 12 Restaurants average number of pubs trading during gross profit divided by sales, expressed cash ows derived from a particular 16 Our guests Up 5% from 374m 2003 the year divided by 52 weeks.
18 Our people 20 Social responsibility 22 Finance directors report Operating profit Brands: Gross profit: Share buy back: 23 Summary financial statement outlets which trade under a common sales less cost of goods sold, the purchase in the open market by 23 Auditors statement name, or their own individual names expressed in monetary terms s. a listed company of its own shares.
24 profit and loss under an externally recognised group 285m 24 Cash ow name, with a consistent design, drinks 24 Balance sheet range, menu, service style and Incremental returns: Underlying earnings per share: 25 Summary directors reportUp 4% from 275m 2003 promotional programme.
growth in annual pre-tax operating earnings before exceptional items 25 Corporate governance profit expressed as a percentage of divided by the average number of 26 Board of directors the associated capital investment.
shares in issue during the period profit before tax 27 Other members of the executive committee Business franchise: For sites which do not have 12 and compared to the pro forma 28 Summary remuneration report an agreement where an entrepreneur months post-investment trading, comparative for the year.
31 Investor information gains access to high quality pubs incremental return is estimated 32 Contacts 184m and a sophisticated business support based on an annualisation of actual 32 Financial calendar infrastructure whilst the Company post-investment trading.
Uninvested like-for-likes: ibc Glossary Down 8% from 199m 2003 retains its scale purchasing and include only those managed pubs overhead advantages, and shares that have not received expansionary in the trading upside through a Post-tax cash return: investment of more than 30,000 Net operating cash ow franchise fee.
The Company receives EBITDA less tax divided by average in either year being compared.
a commercial rent for the property net operating assets less revaluation and retains the property ownership.
reserve plus accumulated depreciation 284m plus goodwill written off.
Central support costs: Up 43m from 241m 2003 all costs associated with the central Productivity: support infrastructure of the Company sales less hourly paid wages divided Earnings per share e. g. finance, supply chain, IT, by the number of hours worked.
Renancing: 22.2p EBITDA: the repayment of an existing loan with earnings before interest, tax, the proceeds from a new loan.
Up 21% from 18.4p 2003 depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items.
Basic earnings per share 22.4p Up 32% from 17.0p 2003 Total dividend per share 9.5p The Pine Marten, Vintage Inns, Harrogate The Pine Marten pictured on the cover and above is an excellent example of creative Before exceptional items.
investment and the diverse range of sites within the Mitchells & Butlers estate.
Dating back On a pro forma basis.
to 1828, this pub is a beautiful listed building, full of interest and warmth with its ornate Before exceptional items and after features, high ceilings, open log res and inviting garden.
Design and production Sheppard Day Print Royle Corporate Print Highlights Mitchells & Butlers is the leading operator of managed pubs and pub restaurants with over 2,000 outlets in prime locations offering eating, drinking and entertainment to our customers nationwide.
Turnover m Operating profit m Earnings per share p 1,600 300 25 289 1,560 285 275 275 22.2 1,504 1,500 1,474 240 20 18.4 1,394 1,400 180 15 1,300 120 10 1,200 60 5 1,100 1,000 0 0 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 04 03 pro forma 04 Average weekly take per pub up 8% to 15.2k Food and drink volumes up 7% Net operating cash ow up 18% to 284m Post-tax cash returns above 10% comparatives restated for the Amendment to FRS 5 excludes Inns & Other, disposed of in 2001 before exceptional items Mitchells & Butlers 1 Annual Review 2004 At a glance Evenly spread pubs & bars across the country 1 2 Individual pubs and formats Soft brands 607 outlets 450 outlets Percentage of Groups UK retail sales Examples include: Examples include: for the year to 25 September 2004 A 5% Deacon Brodies Tavern, Edinburgh The Sun Inn, Barnes The Black Friar, London B 4% C 8% D 10% F restaurants G 16% 5% E H 1 2 Individual pub restaurants Soft brands 4% 1% 59 outlets 223 outlets I Examples include: Examples include: 20% J K 21% 6% A Scotland F West Midlands B Northern G East Midlands C North West H East Anglia D Yorkshire & I London Humberside J South East E Wales K South West The Saxon Mill, Warwick The Trout, Oxford The Bears Head, Sandbach Residential and High Street pubs Residential 70% 1.
Soft brands High Street 30% Pubs and pub restaurants known Pubs which are known locally by their exclusively by the local pub name.
pub name but which also have some These pubs retain their individuality and limited secondary branding, as a badge Freehold and leasehold properties character whilst being grouped together of endorsement, both externally and Freehold and long leasehold 83% with other pubs based on the type of internally, for example on menus or customer and occasion the pub serves.
Leasehold properties 17% Mitchells & Butlers 2 Annual Review 2004 A high quality, well balanced estate The Pubs & Bars division includes the Groups pubs that are more oriented towards drink.
Drink accounts for over 75% of total sales and food for less than 15%.
Diverse sales mix 3 Hard brands 5% 260 outlets 5% Examples include: 34% 26% 2004 Sales 1.56bn 30% Bulls Head, Astley Rising Sun, Whetstone London Beer Food Soft drinks, wine & spirits Accommodation & other Machines The Restaurant division includes the Groups pubs that are more oriented towards food.
Food accounts for over half of total sales and drink for almost 40%.
3 Hard brands High average 320 outlets weekly take Examples include: 15.2k 6.8k London Birmingham Birmingham Barnet 1994 2004 3.
Hard brands Pubs which are known exclusively by the More than doubled brand name and have external and internal branding signals which are consistent since 1994 across all pubs within that brand.
3 times industry average Mitchells & Butlers 3 Annual Review 2004 Chairmans statement I am delighted to report that of dividend or share buy back.
Licensing Act 2003 Mitchells & Butlers has produced very The commencement of a 100m good trading results this year, through buy back programme, announced January 2005: concentrating its energies on generating with these results, is further evidence Local Authorities publish Statement of profitable sales growth and capturing of this commitment.
Licensing Policy setting out how they the associated purchasing and intend to implement the Act productivity benets.
Despite some Corporate social responsibility February 2005: significant external cost challenges the Mitchells & Butlers is concerned about 1st Appointed Day Company has achieved strong growth alcohol-related anti-social behaviour Licence holders apply for the grant in operating profits, earnings and cash and is determined to play its part in of a new licence ows and the Board is confident that operating to appropriate responsible we can continue to build on the progress standards in this area.
We believe that Autumn 2005: we have made in the coming year.
all retailers of alcohol should do so 2nd Appointed Day responsibly in order to maintain the New licences take effect Last year, I highlighted my belief that safety of customers, staff and the wider the management of Mitchells & Butlers community.
However, we do not believe had been energised by independence.
that an Every Day Good Value strategy, It is very encouraging to be able to as adopted by the majority of Mitchells Changes to the existing regime show further evidence that this is, and & Butlers pubs, encourages excessive Licensing authority transferred to Local continues to be, the case.
The actions drinking or anti-social behaviour.
We have Authorities from Local Magistrates we have taken to improve choice, value further tightened our operating guidelines Dual system of Personal and Premises and service for the customer have on the responsible operation of our outlets, licences replaces all existing licences all been driven by real management the sale and promotion of alcohol, our enthusiasm in delivering this strong under 18s policy, and our staff training Opening hours no longer prescribed trading performance and keeping our and development programmes.
We were by the Act promise to shareholders.
pleased to have our efforts recognised Local Authorities are required to take when Mitchells & Butlers was recently account of views of interested parties We are also honouring our commitment credited as Britains Most Responsible to our pensioners with the injection Drinks Retailer by the Morning of a further 40m over the next three Advertiser, an award presented by years into the pension fund and the Minister responsible for Licensing, Impact on Mitchells & Butlers adhering to our policy of best practice Richard Caborn MP.
Many late licences on High Street with the early adoption of FRS 17 for already, limited opportunity for pension accounting.
In September of this year, as part of an longer hours industry wide initiative, the Company Following the successful securitisation announced a clear intent to expand its Possible benefit for residential pubs of most of our pubs in November of this no smoking facilities with segregated later in the week at the weekend year, the business is fully supported and progressively reduced smoking Additional costs in the dual running by a long-term nancing structure with areas over the next five years.
On period are estimated at 3m interest costs xed at attractive rates.
16 November the Government released The terms of the securitisation have a White Paper, Choosing Health, in which been tailored specically to provide it proposed that smoking in pubs that the exibility to continue to pursue our prepare and serve food should be banned growth strategy in the public equity by the end of 2008 and that smoking at market.
The renancing also enabled the bar should be banned in all pubs.
us to return 501m to our shareholders.
We welcome the Governments proposal The Board is committed to the on-going for a staged approach with four years to use of cash ows to reward shareholders prepare and a wide consultation process, as a key objective through re-investment although we do believe that the specic for high returns, the pursuit of value proposal could have adverse unintended creative acquisitions, or return by way consequences.
In particular, the enforced Mitchells & Butlers 4 Annual Review 2004 Tim Clarke, Chief Executive specialisation between food and smoking the prior year from the Rugby World The Board is risks commercially incentivising more Cup and good weather.
pubs than the White Paper currently committed to the anticipates, to remove food and retain The residential sectors of the market reward of shareholders smoking throughout, other than at continue to drive our growth with strong the bar.
As a result, we believe it is volume gains in both our pub restaurants both through profitable in the interests of the pub industry and our local pubs and with same to constructively engage with the outlet like-for-likes up 7.3%.
The High growth and the use Government during the consultations Street where same outlet like-for-likes of the associated to pursue improvements to the current were up 3.1% remains competitive, proposal, including permitting clearly particularly in the late night segments, cash ows.
segregated smoking and non-smoking however trading in our Central London rooms within pubs.
We believe this pubs has continued its strong recovery.
Roger Carr, Chairman would better achieve the Governments health objectives.
In the first eight weeks, our sales initiatives have continued to deliver Whatever final form the legislation profitable growth.
Uninvested like-for-like takes, in the great majority of our estate sales grew by 4.4% and gross margins the priority will remain to continue to were broadly unchanged with food and develop the business to attract a wider drink prices down by less than 1%.
customer base, driving strong growth in food sales in line with our expectations Outlook of future demand.
Mitchells & Butlers business is Mitchells & Butlers increasingly focused on the long-term The Board growth of the informal, value for money, honoured with Drummond Hall was appointed a eating and drinking-out markets in industry award Non-Executive Director of the Company residential areas where our pubs are in July this year.
He is Chief Executive capturing a disproportionate share.
Mitchells & Butlers won the title of of Dairy Crest Group plc, holds an MA Britains Most Responsible Drinks in Economics, has extensive consumer We have made a good start to the year Retailer at the Morning Advertiser marketing experience and has worked which gives the Board confidence in the Responsible Drinks Retailing Awards at a senior level in the drinks industry.
continuing success of our sales strategy, in November 2004.
Drummonds appointment complements our ability to overcome the cost pressures the experience of the other members of that the business faces and the The Company was recognised for the Board, which now consists of four generation of further growth in earnings the following: Executive Directors, four Non-Executive and cash ows in the year ahead.
Directors and myself as Chairman.
Updated Alcohol and Social The Board will continue to use the Responsibility Policy, which Our employees cash ows generated to deliver value includes tighter guidelines I am grateful to all of our employees to shareholders, through re-investment on the sale and promotion for their dedication and hard work for high returns, pursuit of value of alcohol over the last year.
It is their focus and creative acquisitions, or return by Staff training and development determination in the front line of the way of dividend and share buy back.
programmes business that has enabled us to report such good progress this year.
Current trading The sales momentum reported in the second half has been sustained in the first eight weeks of the new financial year with same outlet like-for-likes up 5.8% despite strong comparatives in Roger Carr, Chairman Mitchells & Butlers 5 Annual Review 2004 Chief executives review In 2004, Mitchells & Butlers has profitable sales growth Mitchells & Butlers delivered strong like-for-like sales growth Over the course of the year, our of 5.6 % 3.8% on an uninvested basis, sales growth has continued to build sales strategy returns on cumulative investment of 15% momentum.
We have achieved strong 5 principal levers: and a 21% increase in pro forma earnings sales growth and significant market per share.
Growth has been achieved by share gains.
Our value based pricing Range: a clear focus on the key elements of our strategy has delivered further growth improving the range of drinks and pub retailing strategy, generating value in uninvested like-for-like gross profits menu items that we sell for shareholders through: sales less cost of goods before Service: operating costs, a key measure of incentivising our staff to sell and to Owning and operating approximately profitable retail sales performance.
offer great service 2,000 of the highest quality, highest taking pubs in the industry.
Our Purchasing gains Amenity: managed pubs generate average The resilience of gross margins reects offering a high quality pleasant weekly sales of 15.2k, up 8% over the benets of growing sales volumes environment the year and more than three times in providing further opportunities for Price: the industry average.
reducing the unit cost of the products value pricing in association with that we buy.
During the year we achieved range extensions Developing and evolving some of a reduction in the unit cost of goods of the strongest consumer brands and over 2%, despite the contractual increases Added value activities: formats in the industry.
These are arising from our legacy drinks contracts.
creating an interesting reason to visit aimed at the fastest growing segments of our markets.
In particular, food Productivity gains now represents almost 30% of sales At the operating cost level, the ability to compared with 11% a decade ago.
improve the productivity of our 37,000 staff has been crucial to offsetting Enhancing our offers to appeal to 15m of external costs, largely driven Strong like-for-like sales performance a broader customer base through by employment regulation.
Volumes % increased levels of training and service, served per staff hour worked improved 6.0 a wider product range and improved by 3%, a measurable reection of the 6 5.3 value.
As a result, average retail prices efficiency gains from volume growth.
were 2% lower and same outlet food This was a critical factor in the 5 and drink volumes were up 7%.
resilience of net operating margins 4.4 which were maintained above 18%.
4 3.4 Extracting the profit benefits of an estate of large individual sites and Focus on operating pubs with high 3 over 1.5bn of sales.
These outlet weekly sales and corporate level scale economies Mitchells & Butlers has seen increasing 2 have enabled the delivery of benets from the intensive restructuring strong gains in staff productivity, of the estate towards assets with the 1 purchasing cost reductions and potential to gain from favourable market support cost efficiencies.
Operating large scale 0 pubs in the right locations has been a Maintaining an efficient balance sheet prerequisite of our ability to provide the H1 H2 H1 H2 Uninvested Same outlet structure to create more value for quality of amenity and service and the shareholders.
As the Group grows its range of products at good value prices 32 weeks to include Easter in both years sales and profits, higher cash returns that todays customers demand.
are generated and as pub assets To meet this demand we are constantly are valued as a multiple of their cash developing our operating skills in the flows, the improving performance capacity management of kitchens, bars drives asset appreciation which and serve times to deliver high service can be released for shareholders.
standards at peak trading periods.
Mitchells & Butlers 6 Annual Review 2004 Capturing the growth opportunities: Expanding the drinks range Strong growth in both Brands and formats As our legacy contracts for drinks From this essential platform of estate supplies gradually expire, we are able food and drink sales quality, the development and evolution to signicantly improve our drinks range and significant market of the customer appeal of our brands and sales volumes.
Beer volumes were and formats is key to attracting new up 4%, underpinned by improvements share gains, coupled customers and encouraging existing in the range of premium, often imported, ones to visit with greater frequency.
lagers and a widening of the regional with our new nancing cask ale range.
Our non-beer drinks structure, has enabled Same outlet like-for-like sales were volumes have grown by 10%.
In wine, up 6.6% in the 70% of our pubs in volume growth has been accelerated us to grow earnings residential areas.
This growth is being by the development of own label wines per share by 21%.
driven by our five key brands in this directly sourced from the vineyards, sector: Harvester, Toby Carvery and while soft drinks growth has particularly Vintage Inns in pub restaurants, and reected the successful expansion of Tim Clarke, Chief Executive Ember Inns and Sizzling Pub Co, high our fresh fruit juice range.
quality locals with significant food sales.
They each provide clear and Investment in our estate differentiated consumer appeal based Our expansionary investments have on their informal food and drink offers.
generated attractive incremental returns before tax of 15%.
The investment has The balance of supply and demand been focused on the residential estate in the residential areas has been and the development of the key food increasingly favourable.
This reects orientated pub and pub restaurant the fall in overall industry expansionary brands.
To generate more profits from investment to less than one quarter our sites, we have continued to expand of the peak levels of the late 1990s.
our Innkeepers Lodges alongside our pubs where appropriate.
We now have Operating profit movement m Social and lifestyle trends are benefiting some 3,600 lodge rooms across the estate.
With food volumes Trading SCPD up 8% for the year, we are increasingly The benets of focus 21m 1m attracting families, dual-working couples Continued profitable growth in the first FY04 285m and single households, who are looking full year since the demerger reects to eat out as an every day convenience the benets of operating focus, and 10m External in their neighbourhoods.
This is a result a reborn pub identity for the business.
costs } of more pressurised lifestyles and the We are well positioned in the new year 15m 275m FY03 improvement in the quality and value to continue to make profitable market of pub food.
Our approach to improving customer value should leave us well Support In the 30% of the estate in the High prepared to respond to any slow-down costs 5m Street, same outlet like-for-likes were in consumer spending and continuing up 3.4%, a substantial out-performance supermarket price competition.
I would in a highly competitive market.
This like to thank all our employees for the 260m resulted from three key factors: the enthusiasm and commitment with customer differentiation of our sector which they are executing our strategy leading brands such as All Bar One, to out-perform by delivering real service Flares and ONeills: a clear pricing and real value to our customers.
strategy of every day good value: and lastly our ability to take advantage of For further shareholder information the recovery in the central London on Mitchells & Butlers, log onto market in the second half.
Tim Clarke, Chief Executive our website http: www.
com investors Mitchells & Butlers 7 Annual Review 2004 Pubs & bars Red Lion, Ember Inn, Coventry: Quiz Night Ember is going from strength to strength, with 170 pubs across the country.
Ember is a group of local suburban pubs which appeal particularly to professional people of all ages.
The design of the pubs creates a home from home feel with a central focus on the replace, in addition to comfortable sofas and armchairs.
It is predominantly drinks-led, but supported by an attractive food offer.
Its menu is extremely successful due to its broad appeal.
Its recent Lagers of the World promotion operated over several weeks, offering an exciting selection of imported draught lagers from around the world.
Furthermore, Embers cask ale festivals have become an institution.
Mitchells & Butlers 8 Annual Review 2004 Mike Bramley Managing Director, Pubs & Bars Under the leadership of Managing product range, extending the scope of Driving profitable sales Director, Mike Bramley, the resolute drinks on offer and evolving our food drive for results has ltered throughout menus, with a range of price points for growth through volume the Pubs & Bars division, culminating both to suit the needs of our guests.
growth is the key in a year of profitable growth, effective asset management and a commitment The unwinding of our existing supply to longevity in the to training and development across contracts has enabled us to introduce the business.
Three key business a greater range of draught beers, marketplace.
imperatives have been of strong focus including premium lagers and cask over the past year, and will ensure ales.
We have also made great strides Mike Bramley, Managing Director, a successful financial year ahead.
in wine, which has grown signicantly Pubs & Bars division over the past year, driven by our Increasing importance of food varied, accessible and well-marketed The number one priority of the division range.
Going forward we will continue is profitable like-for-like sales growth.
to evolve our offers to give our guests Mike Bramley believes that driving even more choice.
profitable sales growth through volume growth is the key to longevity The Pubs & Bars division continues to in the marketplace.
Although drink focus on the training and development represents a significant proportion of of its people and on raising service sales, food is playing an increasingly standards.
Several initiatives linked to important role.
This is particularly service delivery have been introduced apparent in residential areas where across the business, for example a Total sales up guests are seeking great value comprehensive quality serve training food and drink offers delivered with initiative, and a significant number of great service in a welcoming local training programmes have taken place 4.6% pub environment.
Our mission is across our pubs in residential areas.
to ensure that each of our pubs are, quite simply, the best in the locality, Investing to keep amenity levels high From 873m 2003 to 913m 2004 attracting an increasing number The third area of focus of the Pubs of guests who are motivated to return & Bars division has been to drive time and time again.
superior returns through continued Same outlet like-for-like sales up capital investment in our brands and individual pubs and formats.
Guests are seeking great 4.6% value food and drink offers This year, ONeills celebrated 10 years delivered with great service of success, a model of a differentiated and successful brand on the High Street.
in a welcoming local pub We have also continued to drive Operating profit up environment.
forward our brands in the local communities, particularly Sizzling Pub Co Providing value, choice and service with 31 conversions and Ember with 1.7% The second business imperative has 11 conversions during the year.
During been to continue to evolve our consumer the year we continued to build upon offers.
We recognise that it is essential the Metropolitan Professionals format From 177m 2003 to 180m 2004 that we provide our guests with value and plan more conversions in the and choice, choice in terms of product year ahead.
and choice in terms of price.
For example, supported by well-executed marketing We are committed to continuing programmes, we have broadened our our programme of maintenance and Mitchells & Butlers 9 Annual Review 2004 Kings Highway, Arena, Quinton, Birmingham A selection of ales The heart of Arena pubs is local communities, local events and big screen sport The range of ales available throughout the the core of which focuses on weekday evenings and weekend events.
Activities include business is increasing to reect regional disco party nights with music from the 70s through to the 90s, quizzes, karaoke and live taste variations.
music from duos and popular tribute bands.
Flares, Warrington Prince of Wales, Metropolitan Professionals pubs, Notting Hill, London The funkiest, grooviest 70s pubs, Flares A group of unbranded, individual pubs, Metropolitan Professionals pubs pride themselves are open late for drinking, dancing and on design regeneration whilst progressing the drink and food offer.
A wide selection of wine, having fun with the best in 70s music speciality draught and bottled beer, and premium spirits are complemented by a delicious for a great night out.
refurbishment, keeping our amenity The year ahead This philosophy enables the levels to a high standard, and ensuring Going forward, the Pubs & Bars division to differentiate itself a solid return on investment.
This division will continue to evolve and from the mass ranks of commitment fully supports a virtuous build upon its powerful brands and circle of volume growth through value, formats to drive sustainable long-term competitors and become first service and amenity leading to more growth.
Put simply, more and more choice for our guests.
customers using our pubs, increasing people will choose to visit and return sales and allowing us to invest further to one of Mitchells & Butlers pubs in these qualities.
This philosophy the difficult market.
This is, in a large and bars as their first preference.
enables the division to differentiate part, due to our well dened and itself from the mass ranks of competitors powerful brands and formats, such as and become first choice for our guests.
ONeills and Flares, combined with our relentless focus on value and service, Exceptional performance delivered through great, well-motivated in a difficult market and committed people.
Mike Bramley The performance of our pubs and believes the business is very well placed bars located on the High Street and to take advantage of the cyclical in London has been exceptional given recovery in the London economy.
Mitchells & Butlers 10 Annual Review 2004 Vesper Gate, Sizzling Pub Co, Leeds Sizzling Pub Co opened its 150th pub mid-way through the year, and there are now just under 160 in the estate.
The driving force for next year is a focus on sizzling service, as well as sizzling food.
Its trademark of sizzling steaks on hot skillets is complemented by the ingredients of the great local: excellent service and individual community activity.
An updated menu has just been launched.
We are signicantly adding to the Toby Carvery The Philharmonic range of regional ales which have broad appeal to the local market, along with the premium and standard lager range which is second to none.
Washington, Tyne and Wear Hope Street, Liverpool Range development As our existing supply contracts For example, the promotional poster unwind, we are able to introduce a pictured left used in many of our greater range of lager and ale across Town Pubs and Classics pubs the business.
We have used the demonstrates a wide range of combination of range enhancements products and price points within one and a spectrum of price points in category to suit all customers tastes.
order to ensure customers have This principle carries through to the optimum choice available.
other categories, such as spirits, Customers can now choose from a wine and soft drinks.
selection of session lagers or a wide range of premium beers, according to taste and price.
Mitchells & Butlers 11 Annual Review 2004 Restaurants Harvester, Sovereign Harbour, Eastbourne: Early Bird promotion Voted Britains Favourite Restaurant Chain by Marketing Week, and now in its 22nd year, Harvester continues to be a power to be reckoned with.
Quality food and prompt personalised service wrapped in an excellent value offer ensures Harvester continues to appeal to families of all ages.
The pub is rmly at the heart of the business, ensuring that a warm convivial atmosphere is coupled with countrystyle eating.
The Early Bird Offer and famous Salad Cart continue to be leading favourites for customers.
Mitchells & Butlers 12 Annual Review 2004 Mike Bramley Managing Director, Pubs & Bars The commitment of Tony Hughes, length of experience of the operational We are about the Managing Director of the Restaurants management team is well over division, to ensuring profitable sales 10 years.
Tony Hughes feels this best sites, the best growth, combined with his dedication stability demonstrates not only the brands and the best to training and development for teams experience and capability of the team, at every level, has created a platform but points to their inherent knowledge people being brilliant for success and an environment for of the business and ability to almost the business to ourish.
Three business priorities have Tony Hughes, Managing Director, It demonstrates not only the contributed to the divisions success Restaurants division experience and capability of over the past year and will continue the team, but points to their to be the guiding principles for the forthcoming year.
inherent knowledge of the business and ability to almost Attention to detail read each others minds!
The first principle is to be brilliant at the basics, having the best sites, the best brands and the best people.
A focus on training and development Being the best is dependent upon an Creating the best teams starts with unwavering commitment to quality recruitment.
The division believes and attention to detail, and it is its that if it recruits people with a great cultivation throughout the business attitude, sharp appearance and Total sales up that ensures success.
Attention to detail winning personality then the technical in our business extends from ensuring skills they need to help them ourish our beer is served in the appropriate and develop a career within the 4.4% glass at the correct temperature business can be developed.
As a through to all menu items cooked to result, the business has a strong perfection with superb presentation.
focus on training and development.
From 614m 2003 to 641m 2004 All Directors and General Managers An excellent and expanding within the Restaurants division are expectation of our peoples ability qualied leadership coaches, armed Same outlet like-for-like-sales up The second guiding principle is the with skills to facilitate training for their deep commitment to investing in the own teams.
teams working within the Restaurants 7.0% division.
Tony Hughes describes this We are focused on individual philosophy as having an excellent and businesses and what makes them expanding expectation of our peoples run successfully are the people.
current ability and future potential.
The frontline people who generate Operating profit up the income are the important ones.
An experienced, highly capable team Culture is very important and Exceeding the industry benchmark 8.3% the principles of worthwhile work, The third principle is to measure achieving goals and cheering each success in terms of like-for-like or other on continue to thrive in the comparative growth.
Moreover, there exists a wonderful continuity of The business thrives on the challenge management within the Restaurants of exceeding the benchmark set for division team, which further enhances itself to push beyond its competitors a platform for innovation.
The average and measure itself against its own Mitchells & Butlers 13 Annual Review 2004 Harvester, Sovereign Harbour, Eastbourne Own label wines Harvester Pub Restaurants are famous for ame grilling, spit-roasts and the unlimited Over the past year, Mitchells & Butlers has help-yourself salad carts.
Freshness and seasonality is captured in a relaxing country successfully launched three own-label wines farmhouse atmosphere where friendly service gives guests a great meal experience.
across the business, sourced direct from growers.
Innkeepers Lodge, Derby The Albany, Vintage Inns, Thames Ditton Innkeepers Lodge provides accessible budget accommodation Vintage Inns are a collection of characterful and comfortable in convenient locations, adjacent to our Harvester, Toby Carvery country inns with modern food and a range of high quality beers or Vintage Inn restaurants.
Each pub restaurant has its own character and style, restored using traditional and reclaimed local materials.
This principle broadening its range of authentic, The business thrives on the carries through not only for measuring continental draught lagers and beers.
challenge of exceeding the sales and profit performance, but also This is in recognition of the growth in benchmark set for itself to service and operational standards continental travel having inuenced through mystery guest scores.
push beyond its competitors the tastes of young professionals the brands core target market.
However, and measure itself against Continuous improvement is inherent as with all brands in the Restaurants its own excellent standards.
in this principle and it means division, it remains a priority for the that every Regional Manager and offer to be accessible.
Licensed House Manager is in control Ensuring our brands remain relevant of achieving their targets.
The goals Finally, the business recognises the The aim across the business is are very clear, enabling absolute focus need to evolve its brands to ensure to create a feeling and atmosphere and awless execution.
each remains relevant to its target of inclusiveness.
All Bar One continuing our commitment to Like-for-like sales are in growth has been leading the way.
friendly, knowledgeable service and there is relentless emphasis on Having established itself as classic, and products of excellent quality.
mystery guest performance across cosmopolitan bars with a fantastic the business.
selection of wines, the brand is Mitchells & Butlers 14 Annual Review 2004 Toby Carvery, Snaresbrook, London The ethos behind Toby Carvery is excellent value for money, where customers can ll their plates from a traditional carvery, choosing from a selection of hot roasts including rib of beef, Norfolk turkey and gammon, and a range of fresh vegetables and potatoes.
Combined with friendly service, Toby is the perfect destination for a traditional and sociable family meal.
Every day good value Our pricing philosophy is to the average price of a carvery offer every day good value meal to under 7.00 menu across all Mitchells & Butlers shown left.
We use price as a key a Toby Carvery is cheaper now lever to drive high volumes, and than it was 10 years ago.
ensure that all our brands offer An additional key part of the excellent value for money.
pricing strategy is extending the For example, Toby Carvery has range of prices and menu items nearly quadrupled covers to to reect different occasions, well over 2,000 meals per from a low-price lunch break week since 1996, reducing to an evening celebratory meal.
Mitchells & Butlers 15 Annual Review 2004 Our guests Responding to customer needs The sales growth Mitchells & Butlers enjoys is driven by a continuous process of offer development and evolution, and widening the appeal of our pubs to cash rich time poor guests.
They want a high quality experience at excellent value in convenient locations.
The breadth of the estate allows our brands to target key consumer groups across the UK, ensuring each of our brands has a strong, sustainable and differentiated brand position.
Mitchells & Butlers 16 Annual Review 2004 Mike Bramley Managing Director, Pubs & Bars The market for eating and drinking-out and grown spend per head on food by Our philosophy is is commonly characterised as large 4.3% this year.
Ember Inns now stands and in gentle growth.
In fact, this at 170 pubs and has grown sales to offer ever better market consists of a number of different through a number of menu changes, service and value sub-sectors which are changing increasing spend per head on food rapidly.
Our marketing strategy can by 3.9%, in addition to broadening to each of our chosen be summarised as applying our the drinks range.
We have also opened general philosophy of offering ever a number of individual pubs that cater sub-sectors.
better service and value to each of our to the tastes of high-income families.
chosen sub-sectors in an appropriate Adam Martin, Marketing Director and timely way to take advantage of Changing consumer tastes Member of the Executive Committee these shifts.
Meanwhile, the phenomenon of young professionals choosing to live Good quality, informal food and drink in the city centre has grown further in We have continued to see growing London and is spreading to the major demand for casual, cheap eating and provincial cities.
This has led to a shift drinking.
The ever larger middle market in tastes characterised by demand for of the UK is now enjoying high levels more sophisticated drinks and better of afuence and full employment.
We have introduced a range High employment levels also mean that of premium-imported lagers such as all adult family members are working, Kuppers Kolsch Cologne, Erdinger leaving little time to cook.
Fast food Weiss Bier Bavaria and Paulaner no longer adequately meets the needs Munich, and we have rolled out an Mitchells & Butlers of these guests because it offers only enhanced range of cask beers across Drink trends cheap prices and fails to deliver food the country.
We have added fresh fruit quality, service or amenity.
In contrast juices, which now comprise just under the pub is well placed to offer good 2% of our drink sales.
We have quality, informal food and drink in a introduced 280 new labels of wine Total drinks value 2.5% pleasant atmosphere at value prices.
across the businesses, growing our Sizzling Pub Co is an excellent example.
volume of bottle wine by just under Over the year we have continued to 18% this year.
Finally, we have Total drinks volume 7% expand the business, which now stands capitalised on the return to favour at just under 160 pubs, and food and of traditional spirits by increasing our drink sales grew 3.5% in the year.
Overall 8.5% of Draught beer 5% In addition, we have opened a further drinks sales come from products that 11 Toby Carveries this year, growing were not sold in Mitchells & Butlers spend per head and selling over 2,000 a year ago.
These moves have grown Draught soft drinks 8% meals per week.
the market share of our managed houses by 0.2%, despite a reduction Quality food in stylish surroundings in the average number of pubs across Wine 9% We also see growing demand for high the estate.
quality food and drink in stylish, yet still informal surroundings.
This growth Looking forward, we anticipate a Food trends is instigated primarily by two groups: continuation of the rapid changes in the afuent retired and high-income the nature of consumer demand, and families who have migrated from the remain committed to maximising the Total food sales 7% cities to the wealthy dormitory towns.
opportunity they will present through Vintage Inns and Ember Inns serve this our targeted and distinct initiatives, market.
Across the 206 Vintage Inns, individual to each of our brands.
Total food volume growth 9% we have further enhanced the menu Total like-for-like cover growth 6% Mitchells & Butlers 17 Annual Review 2004 Our people Training and development Training and development of our people is a key priority at Mitchells & Butlers, from the Stepping Stones programme, which new members of bar staff complete during their first six weeks, to more advanced programmes for Licensed House Managers such as the British Institute of Innkeepings BII National Licensee Certicate, to personal development courses available to employees across the Company.
We have a commitment to ensure our staff are properly trained and given the tools they need to succeed in their job.
Mitchells & Butlers 18 Annual Review 2004 Mike Bramley Managing Director, Pubs & Bars With over 35,000 retail staff nationally, turn can train the front line staff in Mitchells & Butlers Mitchells & Butlers is committed their businesses.
to comprehensive training and is committed to development programmes to maximise Improved employee satisfaction comprehensive training the ability and potential of all of our We are pleased with the results of our people.
Each member of retail staff latest Corporate Employee Satisfaction and development receives an extensive programme of survey, with improved scores overall training through our Stepping Stones against the previous year.
The response programmes to scheme.
This provides education on rate improved by 16% on the previous maximise the ability the legal requirements of their role, year, and the comprehensive survey including their responsibilities not aggregate score increased by 6%.
Overall and potential of all to serve under 18s nor those who strengths noted were clear company of our people.
and team objectives, support from managers and colleagues and effective Licensed House Manager programmes channels of communication.
89% of the Bronagh Kennedy, Company Secretary require compulsory completion of the employees surveyed would recommend HR Director and General Counsel British Institute of Innkeepings BII Mitchells & Butlers as a place to work.
National Licensee Certicate, which is the recognised national qualication Facilitating exible working in the licensed trade and a core element We see the availability of exible of our risk training.
Mitchells & Butlers working across Mitchells & Butlers as is recognised by the BII as a leading a contributor to a higher level of staff provider of training and is licensed satisfaction, due to its assistance in Flexible working accordingly to deliver the training achieving a work-life balance.
Furthermore, all Licensed the corporate population is classed as 48% of corporate population is classed House Managers appointed this year mobile based: the exibility afforded by as mobile based have successfully completed their mobile working is widely accepted as a 84% of retail employees work Certicate in Retailing Management.
key element in attracting and retaining part-time employees.
84% of our retail employees Developing skills and knowledge work part-time, while 35 corporate to support our business objectives employees either work part-time or The business challenges for the work in a job share.
Also, flexibility Career progression year ahead include maintaining of start and finish times has been We operate an integrated and improving our productivity and introduced together with exible holiday succession planning process continuing to build upon our success benefit, allowing corporate employees where every employee receives in food sales growth.
Innovative strides the ability to successfully integrate performance reviews and personal have been made in creating efficient work with their other commitments.
development plans rostering to ensure we have the right people in the right place at the right Planned career development 93% of Licensed House Manager time.
We are trialling a commissionClear communication of career positions filled internally based pay scheme to ensure our development opportunities within 90% of Assistant Licensed House rewards are more closely aligned with Mitchells & Butlers has also been a big Manager positions filled internally individual performance.
Furthermore, priority over the past year.
This entails we have made a commitment to an integrated succession planning developing skills and knowledge process where every employee receives on food, from interactive training performance reviews and personal to education and selling.
Furthermore, Food Innovation Centres in Hemel our business franchise outlets provide Hempstead and Watford ensure senior an excellent route for Licensed House For further information on operators and area managers are fully Managers who are keen to develop Mitchells & Butlers careers, trained on new menus so that they in their entrepreneurial skills.
log onto our website http: www.
com careers Mitchells & Butlers 19 Annual Review 2004 Social responsibility A responsible operator Mitchells & Butlers is committed to operating responsibly and providing safe, welcoming environments, which neither condone nor encourage excessive drinking, for all of our guests to enjoy.
We actively encourage widespread membership by our managers in Pubwatch schemes, community-based crime prevention schemes organised and run by licensees.
We support Crime and Disorder Partnerships and aim to participate fully in local initiatives against irresponsible drinking and its related effects, as outlined in the Governments National Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy.
Mitchells & Butlers 20 Annual Review 2004 Britains Most Responsible Drinks Retailer, Morning Advertiser Responsible Drinks Retailing Awards Mitchells & Butlers is committed to not an over 21s only entrance policy: Responsible drinking raising awareness of social responsibility instead, we ask our staff that if they issues and promoting good practice believe a guest may be under 21, Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility across every level of our business, under then they should ask for ID.
policy, first published in 2000, has the direction of the Board.
We operate now been updated to include even to a Code of Business Conduct acting We have received very positive feedback tighter guidelines on: as a guide to all Company employees from both police and licensing ofcers on the responsible operation of our outlets requiring that they act honestly and the initiative and at their request we have impartially in their dealings with all also made available Challenge 21 posters the sale and promotion of alcohol stakeholders.
We feel, as a leading to other companies as a way of helping our under 18s policy member of the pub industry, it is them to tackle the under-age issue.
important to be a responsible operator our staff training and development through setting clear policies and Active in the local community programmes training staff in their delivery.
Compared with some other industry sectors, our environmental impact Strengthened Alcohol and Social is relatively low, but we do take our Smoking Responsibility Policy environmental responsibilities seriously.
Whilst the consultation process on Corporate Social Responsibility underpins This year, we were recognised at smoking in public places, as outlined our business.
The issues of irresponsible the National Transport Awards for in the Governments White Paper, drinking and its impact on anti-social the Provision of Travel Information, Choosing Health is underway, we will behaviour have been drawn to the informing our corporate employees continue with our industry-supported public attention recently.
about using alternatives to their cars policy on smoking.
It includes: Mitchells & Butlers has been very keen to commute to the office.
Over 150 to ensure that we play a full part in employees are now using alternative a ban on smoking at the bar from tackling these issues.
Furthermore, we December 2005 have reviewed our existing Alcohol and operate glass bottle recycling initiatives, a progressive policy of expanded Social Responsibility policy introduced and we are making continuing progress no smoking areas culminating in in 2000, and have further strengthened in energy and water saving.
80% of trading space becoming it to give tighter guidelines on the sale no smoking over the next five years and promotion of alcohol, and staff We encourage our individual businesses training and development programmes, to be good neighbours and support demonstrating our long-term commitment their local communities.
This year, our Healthy eating to responsible retailing.
24th supporting the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra CBSO, we All of our menus provide a good We are members of The Portman Group, sponsored the launch of CBSO on range of choice, including lighter an organisation that exists to promote the Road, a variety of concerts by the dishes.
Some examples to encourage sensible drinking, and we participate in CBSO in community venues such healthy eating include: various of their initiatives to tackle issues as libraries and village halls.
We also fun, healthy options on the childrens such as under-age drinking, drink support a wide range of charities, menus in Harvester driving and irresponsible drinking.
partly through donations and also by encouraging activity in our pubs, bars unlimited trips to the Salad Cart Positive feedback to Under 18s policy and restaurants.
Our Heart of the in Harvester Voluntary identication card schemes, Community Pub of the Year Award unlimited fresh vegetables in such as The Portman Group Prove It has been launched to reward and Toby Carvery kits, are available in many of our outlets, recognise a pub that has not only been for the convenience of younger guests.
a successful fundraiser, but has also We have recently developed and benefited the community in which communicated our Company Under 18s it trades.
We feel it is important to Policy in the form of our Challenge 21 encourage and recognise the hard For further information on campaign, an initiative which supports work which helps establish and build Mitchells & Butlers social responsibility, and educates our staff in the difficulties the reputation of Mitchells & Butlers in log onto our website of identifying under-age guests.
This is the communities in which it operates.
com responsibility Mitchells & Butlers 21 Annual Review 2004 Finance directors report Mitchells & Butlers is delivering strong more efficient, whilst preserving The business has trading results and cash ows from a appropriate exibility to develop the sales-led strategy and proactive asset business.
Net debt at the year-end was generated post-tax management.
During the year, the 1.63bn, equating to 4.2x EBITDA.
cash returns of over business generated 393m of EBITDA, grew earnings per share by 21% The Company continues to own its 10% and, with the and produced post-tax cash returns properties and shareholders retain above 10%.
therefore, the potential benefit of renancing, 21% longer term asset appreciation in Our main financial objective is to addition to the annual returns that growth in earnings maximise our cash returns above the the pubs generate.
To achieve this, our management actions are focused on The Board is recommending a final four key levers of financial performance dividend for 2004 of 6.65 pence, up Karim Naffah, Finance Director and we have made good progress on 18% on the prior year, making a total all fronts during the year: for the year of 9.5 pence per share.
The Board intends to adopt a Driving the profitable sales progressive dividend policy in the performance of our pubs future, consistent with the medium-term We measure the success of our sales growth prospects of the Company.
strategy primarily by the growth in like-for-like gross profits for those pubs Following the actuarial valuation of Earnings per share pro forma that have not received investment the pension funds, the Company has above their normal maintenance cycle.
agreed to make additional contributions During the year, our profits on this of 40m over the next three years, measure were up by 3%.
in addition to the remaining 20m 22.2p committed at the time of the renancing.
Investing for high returns This will help to reduce further the We prioritise our expansionary Companys future liabilities in respect investment on pub conversions and of the deficit in the funds, which stood up 21% new site acquisitions that generate high at 167m at 31 March 2004 on an returns on incremental capital.
We are on-going actuarial basis.
The next achieving an incremental return of over actuarial valuation is due in 2007.
Total dividend per share for 2004 15% before tax on this investment over the last two years.
In view of the strong trading performance and cash generation of the business, Making value creative disposals the Board has decided to commence 9.5p We evaluate on a pub-by-pub basis the a share buy back programme designed disposal option compared to the on-going to repurchase 100m of the Companys trading value.
During the year, we realised shares during the course of the 2005 Post-tax cash returns above 51m from disposals, often to buyers financial year.
The buy back further planning an alternative use for the site.
demonstrates the Boards commitment to the maintenance of an efficient Maintaining an efficient balance sheet through the effective 10% nancing structure deployment of cash in the best interests At the start of the year we implemented of shareholders.
a securitisation of the majority of our pubs, raising 1.9bn of long-term debt at a post-tax interest cost xed at 4.2%.
For further shareholder information This enabled a return of 501m to on Mitchells & Butlers, log onto shareholders making the balance sheet Karim Naffah, Finance Director our website http: www.
com investors Mitchells & Butlers 22 Annual Review 2004 Summary financial statement for the 52 weeks ended 25 September 2004 The Summary Financial Statement is segment, led by Sizzling Pub Co and years rate of 24.0% which benefited shown on page 24.
Seventy-eight conversions from a one-off receipt of group relief were completed.
Despite the intensity of from the Six Continents group.
Total sales were 1,560m, 3.7% competition in the High Street and the ahead of last year.
Sales growth increase in employment costs brought Earnings per share were 22.2p, 21% remains strongest in the residential about by the National Minimum Wage, ahead of the pro forma for last year.
sectors of the market, led by high net operating margins were only 0.6% Basic earnings per share were 22.4p food sales growth.
Our High Street points below last year and operating compared to 17.0p for last year.
businesses continued to gain share in a profits were 180m.
competitive market, and take advantage The Board have reconfirmed their of the recovery in Central London.
Sales in the Restaurant Division were intention to recommend a final 641m, 4.4% ahead of last year dividend of 6.65p, taking the total Sales activity has focused on widening reecting particularly strong trading by ordinary dividend to 9.5p per share the consumer offer by extending the the pub restaurant brands.
In addition, a special range of food and drink and managing pubs opened, including eight Vintage dividend of 68p per share was the product mix to maximise volume Inns.
Seventeen pubs were transferred paid on 8 December 2003 as part and overall profit contribution.
This to the Pubs & Bars division where the of the refinancing of the Company.
has enabled us to offer better value demographics around the pub mean This was accompanied by a 12 for 17 to consumers, with the average price that it is now better suited to a more consolidation in the number of shares of food and drink down approximately drinks-led offer.
Sales growth, coupled in issue.
2%, and coupled with the negotiation with labour productivity improvements, of improved terms from suppliers, to resulted in operating profit 8.3% ahead The Groups trading activities generated achieve gross margins broadly in line of last year at 104m.
strong cash ows in the year.
cash inow after net capital expenditure, The net interest charge for the year before exceptional items, was 284m Outlet employment costs were held at was 101m, before an exceptional cost compared with 241m last year.
24% of sales despite a 7% increase in of 2m relating to the previous bank Following the renancing and return of the National Minimum Wage.
This is 25m higher than the funds to shareholders, accompanying taken last year to reduce support costs pro forma charge for last year, reecting issue costs and additional pension contributed an incremental 5m of the higher level of net debt in the Group contributions, net debt was 1.63bn savings.
As a result, operating profit for following the renancing and return of at the year end.
the year, before operating exceptional 501m of cash to shareholders.
items, was 285m, 3.6% ahead of The fixed assets of 3.5bn on the last year.
The effective tax rate was 32.4%, balance sheet at the year-end continue compared to 32.3% on a pro forma to reect the pubs owned and operated Sales in Pubs & Bars were 913m, basis for the prior year.
Including the by the Company, 83% of which are 4.6% ahead of last year with growth effect of exceptional items, the effective freehold or long leasehold.
Net assets remaining strongest in the residential tax rate was 31.3% compared to last were 1.64bn at the year end.
Statement of the independent auditors We have examined the Groups preparing the Annual Review and Basis of opinion Summary Financial Statement for the Summary Financial Statement in We conducted our examination in 52 weeks ended 25 September 2004 accordance with applicable law.
accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 which comprise Summary profit and The auditors statement on the loss account, Summary cash ow, Our responsibility is to report to you Summary Financial Statement issued and Summary balance sheet.
our opinion on the consistency of the by the Auditing Practices Board for Summary Financial Statement within the use in the United Kingdom.
This report is made solely to the Annual Review and Summary Financial Companys members, as a body, in Statement with the full annual accounts, Opinion accordance with Section 251 of the Directors Report and Directors In our opinion the Summary Financial Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest Remuneration Report, and its compliance Statement is consistent with the full extent required by the law, we do not with the relevant requirements of annual accounts, Directors Report accept or assume responsibility to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and Directors Remuneration Report anyone other than the Company and and the regulations made thereunder.
of Mitchells & Butlers plc for the the Companys members as a body, We also read the other information 52 weeks ended 25 September 2004 for our audit work, for this report, contained in the Annual Review and and complies with the applicable or for the opinions we have formed.
Summary Financial Statement and requirements of Section 251 of the consider the implications for our report Companies Act 1985, and regulations Respective responsibilities of if we become aware of any apparent made thereunder.
Directors and auditors misstatements or material inconsistencies The Directors are responsible for with the Summary Financial Statement.
Ernst & Young LLP, Registered Auditor Mitchells & Butlers 23 Annual Review 2004 profit and loss Pro forma 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Turnover 1,560 1,504 1,560 1,504 Operating profit Pubs & Bars 180 177 180 177 Restaurants 104 96 104 96 Retail 284 273 284 273 SCPD 1 2 1 2 Operating exceptional items 2 5 Total operating profit 285 275 283 270 Non-operating exceptional items 2 42 profit before interest 285 275 285 228 Net interest payable finance charge 101 76 103 63 profit before taxation 184 199 182 165 Taxation 60 64 57 40 profit for the financial year 124 135 125 125 Dividends 550 29 Retained loss profit 425 96 Earnings per share Basic 22.4p 17.0p Adjusted pro forma 22.2p 18.4p Final dividend per share 6.65p 5.65p Excluding exceptional items.
Restated on the adoption of the Amendment to FRS 5.
Unaudited and excluding exceptional items.
Cash ow 2004 2003 m m Operating profit 285 275 Depreciation and amortisation 108 99 EBITDA 393 374 Working capital movement 26 3 The Mitchells & Butlers group Additional pension contributions 40 27 was created on its separation Other non-cash items 4 from Six Continents on 15 April 2003.
In addition to the actual Net cash inow from operating activities 383 344 results, a pro forma profit and Purchase of tangible xed assets 150 151 loss account is presented for Sale of tangible xed assets 51 48 2003 in order to show the results Operating cash ow after net capital expenditure 284 241 of the Group as if it had been Net interest paid 98 49 an independent company since Tax paid 34 44 1 October 2002, operating Normal dividends paid 44 under the nancing and taxation Special dividends paid 501 structure put in place at the time Issue costs paid in respect of securitised debt 22 1 of separation.
Separation costs paid 1 36 Facility fees paid 15 This Summary Financial Operating exceptional expenditure 4 2 Statement was approved by the Purchase issue of own shares 3 4 Board on 30 November 2004 Net cash ow 423 98 and signed on its behalf by Tim Clarke and Karim Naffah.
It does not contain sufficient Net debt at 25 September 2004 was 1,632m, net of 22m FRS 4 issue costs capitalised and after accrued information to provide as full an interest of 3m 2003 1,228m.
understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Group as that contained in the Annual Balance sheet Report and Financial Statements 2004 2003 2004.
That report may be obtained, m m free of charge, by completing the relevant section of the enclosed Fixed assets 3,519 3,533 proxy card and returning it to Current assets 490 247 Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Creditors due within one year 326 508 Net current assets liabilities 164 261 The auditors have issued an unqualied report on the financial Total assets less current liabilities 3,683 3,272 statements containing no statement Creditors due after one year 1,822 1,001 under Section 237 2 or 237 3 of Provisions for liabilities and charges 219 207 the Companies Act 1985.
Net assets shareholders funds 1,642 2,064 Information concerning Directors Mitchells & Butlers 24 Annual Review 2004 emoluments is shown on page 29.
Summary directors report and corporate governance Principal activities Donations During the year, the Board has Mitchells & Butlers is the leading The Company supports community conducted a review of the effectiveness operator of managed pubs and pub initiatives and charitable causes of the system of internal control.
The restaurants with an estate of 2,006 and in 2004 donated 103,300. system is designed to manage, rather sites at 25 September 2004, principally In addition, non cash contributions, than eliminate, the risk of failure to located in the UK.
A review of the such as employee time and free achieve business objectives and it must Groups performance is contained in meals in the Companys outlets, are be recognised that it can only provide the Chairmans Statement, the Chief estimated to have raised the total reasonable and not absolute assurance Executives Review, the business reviews value of donations to approximately against material misstatement or loss.
and the Finance Directors Report and 708,500.
The Company made no In that context, the review, in the opinion in the Summary Financial Statement.
of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
Formation of the Company and Corporate governance demerger from Six Continents The Board is committed to compliance The Group regularly reviews both the The Company was incorporated on with the principles of Corporate type and amount of external insurance 2 October 2002.
Following demerger Governance as set out in the Combined that it buys bearing in mind the from the hotels and soft drinks interests Code on Corporate Governance availability of such cover, its cost, and of Six Continents PLC, it became an the Code and considers that the the likelihood and magnitude of the independent listed company on Company has complied throughout risks involved.
15 April 2003. the year ended 25 September 2004 with all the provisions of the Code.
Board and committee structure Securitisation and return To support the principles of good of shareholder funds A revised Combined Code was corporate governance, the Board, Following demerger, the Company issued in July 2003 the Revised the members of which are shown on refinanced its operations through a Code.
Whilst the provisions of the pages 26 and 27, is responsible to the securitisation of the majority of its UK Revised Code technically do not shareholders for the good standing of pubs and pub restaurants business.
impact the Company until its financial the Company, the management of its The sum of 1.9bn was successfully year 2004 05, the Company has assets for optimum performance and raised by means of a bonds issue and the already taken steps to meet its the strategy for its future development.
Companys existing 1.2bn of borrowings requirements and considers that, There are nine regular Board meetings were repaid on 13 November 2003. as at 25 September 2004, it was a year and further meetings as needed.
The ordinary share capital was fully compliant and remains so.
consolidated on 2 December 2003 The following main committees of the on the basis of 12 new ordinary shares As the Companys shares are listed Board have been established: for every 17 existing ordinary shares on the New York Stock Exchange, the Executive Remuneration and on 8 December 2003, 501m was Company is subject to the rules of the Audit Nomination returned to shareholders by means of NYSE, US securities laws and the rules a special dividend of 68p per share.
of the Securities & Exchange The Audit and Remuneration Commission SEC.
Committees consist wholly of Final dividend Non-Executive Directors.
Since the start The Board recommends a final dividend A statement outlining the differences of the year, reecting latest corporate for the year ended 25 September 2004 between the Companys corporate governance best practice, Roger Carr, of 6.65p per share to be paid on governance practices and those the Chairman of the Board, ceased 31 January 2005 to shareholders on followed by US companies may be to be a member of the Audit and the Register at the close of business found on the Companys website Remuneration Committees and on 10 December 2004. at www.
com investors as attends at the invitation of the required by the SEC.
Directors Details of the current members of Internal control Going concern the Board are shown on pages 26 The Board is responsible for the The Companys financial statements and 27.
Mike Bramley, Roger Carr Groups system of internal control and for the year to 25 September 2004 have and Drummond Hall will retire and risk management and for reviewing its been prepared on a going concern basis offer themselves for reappointment effectiveness.
In order to discharge as, after making appropriate enquiries, at the Annual General Meeting on that responsibility, the Board confirms the Directors have a reasonable 26 January 2005.
The four Executive that it has established the procedures expectation that the Group has adequate Directors, Messrs Bramley, Clarke, necessary to apply the Code, including resources to continue in operational Hughes and Naffah, have service clear operating procedures, lines of existence for the foreseeable future.
These procedures have been in place Annual General Meeting since the Group was listed and are Notice of the Annual General Meeting regularly reviewed by the Board.
to be held at 11am on Wednesday 26 January 2005 is contained in a circular, which is sent to shareholders with this Review.
Mitchells & Butlers 25 Annual Review 2004 Board of directors Roger Carr 57 Tim Clarke 47 Karim Naffah 41 Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Became the Chairman of the Chief Executive since demerger, he Having been Strategy Director Company on its demerger from chairs the Executive Committee.
Having of Six Continents PLC, he became Six Continents PLC, where he was joined Bass in 1990, he became the Finance Director of the Company the senior non-executive director.
Director of Strategy for Bass PLC and when it became independent in He is Chairman of Centrica plc Managing Director for Bass European April 2003.
In 1991 he joined Bass, and Deputy Chairman of Cadbury Hotels in 1992.
In 1995, he became becoming its Director of Strategic Schweppes plc and a senior adviser Chief Executive of Bass Retail, which Planning in 1992.
In 2000 he became to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Co. Ltd. now constitutes the business of Strategy Director for that group and He has previously held a number Mitchells & Butlers plc.
He became a member of the Strategic Business of senior appointments including Chief Executive of Six Continents PLC Committee and the executive Chief Executive of Williams plc, in 2000.
He is a director of the British committees of the Hotels and Retail Chairman of Chubb plc and Beer & Pub Association, having been divisions.
He also held responsibility Chairman of Thames Water plc.
He was the senior for the property development and independent non-executive director of IT functions.
Debenhams plc until December 2003 and is a non-executive director of Associated British Foods plc.
Mike Bramley 53 Tony Hughes 56 George Fairweather 47 Managing Director, Pubs & Bars Managing Director, Restaurants Non-Executive Director Having been a director of Six Continents Having been a director of Six Continents Appointed a Non-Executive Director Retail, he became a Director of Retail, he became a Director of in April 2003, he chairs the Audit the Company on its demerger from the Company on its demerger from Committee.
He is Group Finance Six Continents in April 2003.
He has Six Continents in April 2003.
He has Director of Alliance UniChem Plc been Managing Director, Pubs & Bars been Managing Director, Restaurants having previously held the same since September 2002.
In 1995, he joined Bass role with Elementis plc.
Earlier 20 years with Bass Six Continents, following senior management roles appointments were with Dawson he worked in a variety of roles in the at B&Q, J.
International, Dixons Group and pubs and brewing businesses.
In 1995, In 2001 he received the Hotel and Procter & Gamble.
he became Commercial Director of Bass Caterer Catey for the Pub Industry Taverns and in 1998 was appointed Award and in 2002 he was voted HR and Commercial Director of Bass Retailers Retailer Individual of the Leisure Retail later Six Continents Year by the pub and restaurant industry.
He is a director of the British Beer & Pub Association.
Mitchells & Butlers 26 Annual Review 2004 A Non-Executive Director A member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees A member of the Executive Committee Sara Weller 43 Sir Tim Lankester 62 Drummond Hall 55 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in April 2003, she chairs the in May 2003, he is President of Corpus in July 2004, he is Chief Executive Remuneration Committee and is the Christi College, Oxford.
From 1973 of Dairy Crest Group plc.
Prior to that, Senior Independent Non-Executive to 1995 he was a member of the Civil he had held marketing positions in Director.
She is Managing Director Service rising to be Deputy Secretary Procter & Gamble, Mars and Pepsi of Argos having previously been of H. M. Treasury, Permanent Secretary, Cola, before moving to HP Bulmer plc, Deputy Managing Director of Overseas Development Administration, where he became Managing Director J Sainsbury plc.
Earlier appointments Foreign and Commonwealth Ofce of the Cider and Beer Division and were with Abbey National and and Permanent Secretary, Department a member of the Group Executive.
He served as Private Secretary at 10 Downing Street and represented the UK on the Boards of the World Bank and the IMF.
He is a member of the Board of ACTIS.
Other members of the executive committee John Buttereld Bronagh Kennedy Adam Martin Strategy Director HR Director and General Counsel Marketing Director Richard Pratt Bill Scobie Alison Wheaton Commercial Director Deputy Finance Director Property and IT Director Mitchells & Butlers 27 Annual Review 2004 Summary remuneration report This summary is an extract of The main components of Executive share options information from the full Remuneration remuneration are: Grants of options are normally Report contained in the Annual Report made each year to senior executives and Financial Statements 2004, a copy Basic salary and are scaled according to seniority.
of which is available on request and The policy is to set salary broadly in line The maximum value of shares can be viewed on the Companys with median market levels.
over which options may be granted website at www.
in any year is twice salary for Executive The Remuneration Report will be put Annual performance bonus Directors.
Options are exercisable to the vote at the forthcoming Annual Challenging performance goals three to ten years from grant subject General Meeting.
are set which must be achieved to achievement of a performance before a bonus becomes payable.
condition, set by the Committee.
Remuneration policy for For Executive Directors, these targets Executive Directors are linked to the Groups performance Performance restricted share plan The following policy has applied in achieving strategic business This plan aims to encourage continuing throughout the year and will apply objectives and delivering corporate improvement in the Groups performance for the financial year 2005, thereafter financial targets and to the Directors over the longer term.
Its participants the Remuneration Committee achievement of personal business are Directors and those senior the Committee will recommend objectives.
The maximum bonus executives who are best placed changes as appropriate.
opportunity is normally equivalent to influence such performance.
The Committee determines on behalf Generally a three-year performance of the Board, with the benefit of Annual bonuses may be paid in cash cycle will commence each year and advice from external consultants but, at the discretion of the Committee, at the end of the cycle two aspects and the Human Resources function, the Executive Directors may receive all of the Companys performance will the remuneration packages of the or part of the bonus in the Companys be measured: Executive Directors, the other members shares under the Short Term Deferred of the Executive Committee and certain Incentive Plan STDIP.
To date, all total shareholder return against other senior executives.
The Committee annual bonus entitlements of Executive a comparator group of eleven aims to ensure that the packages are Directors have been paid in shares.
competitor companies: and designed to attract, retain and motivate A bonus award of shares earned in directors and executives of the highest 2003 04 will be deferred for 12 months the Companys cash return on capital calibre.
It has regard to levels of and, if the Director is in the Companys employed against its weighted remuneration in the Group and in the employment at the end of that period, average cost of capital.
specic industries and businesses matching shares may be awarded of with which Group companies compete up to 0.5 times the deferred shares.
Awards will be graded according and is also sensitive to levels in the to the level of performance on each wider community.
The Company Consistent with the Committees of these measures.
operates performance-related policies desire to see equity awards linked to designed to provide the appropriate performance, it is proposed to amend Pensions arrangements balance between xed remuneration the STDIP so that for awards made Executive Directors participate on the and variable risk reward.
Using target for 2004 05 any matching shares same basis as other members in the or projected value calculations, will be subject to the achievement relevant Group pension schemes.
performance-related incentives for of a performance condition linked Executive Directors will equate to to earnings per share and to a three approximately 60% of total remuneration.
There will be no retesting of the performance condition.
Share and cash based incentives are designed so as to align the interests of Subject to the approval of shareholders executives with those of shareholders.
at the forthcoming AGM and in order to Executive Directors are required to build maintain the value and competitiveness and maintain significant shareholdings, of the STDIP, it is proposed to increase equivalent in value to at least twice their the ratio of matching shares to bonus basic salary, but three times salary for shares from 0.5:1 to 1:1. the Chief Executive.
Directors contracts In accordance with the Companys normal policy, the Executive Directors have rolling contracts which are subject to 12 months notice.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Mitchells & Butlers 28 Annual Review 2004 Directors emoluments 2004 Total emoluments Basic Annual excluding pensions salaries performance and fees bonus Benets 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Mike Bramley 334 201 17 552 245 Tim Clarke 509 383 24 916 371 Tony Hughes 334 251 23 608 241 Karim Naffah 359 270 15 644 257 Non-Executive Directors Roger Carr 199 8 207 97 George Fairweather 49 49 23 Drummond Hall 7 7 Sir Tim Lankester 42 42 16 Sara Weller 49 49 23 Total 2004 1,882 1,105 87 3,074 Total 2003 848 379 46 1,273 Annual performance bonuses as described above for 2004 and for 2003 were wholly deferred into shares under the terms of the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan.
For 2003, the year of the Companys demerger from Six Continents PLC, emoluments cover the period from appointment to the Board of Mitchells & Butlers plc.
Roger Carr and Tim Clarke, who were directors of Six Continents PLC for part of that year, received emoluments, not included above, of 56,000 and 363,000 respectively from that company.
The gures above represent emoluments earned during the periods shown.
There were no payments for loss of ofce.
Benets incorporate the value of any shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan and all tax assessable benets arising from employment with the Company, which relate in the main to the provision of a company car and healthcare cover.
Pensions Pensions The four Executive Directors are Accrued accruing benets under the Companys Years of pension pa Executive Pension Plan and three of pensionable at 25.9.
04 Director Age service 000 them under the unfunded Executive Top-Up Scheme.
Their accrued Mike Bramley 53 24 195.9 pensions, which would be paid Tim Clarke 47 14 236.7 annually on retirement at 60, based Tony Hughes 56 9 92.5 on service to 25 September 2004, Karim Naffah 41 13 125.6 are shown in the adjacent table.
Share plans Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan The net values earned in the year in Ordinary respect of shares receivable through shares Value the matching facility under the Short Director 000 000 Term Deferred Incentive Plan were Mike Bramley 39 100 as shown in the adjacent table.
Tim Clarke 74 191 Tony Hughes 49 126 These awards are valued at 259p Karim Naffah 52 135 per share, the share price on 25 September 2004.
Release is in three equal annual tranches, commencing December 2005.
Mitchells & Butlers 29 Annual Review 2004 Summary remuneration report continued Share plans continued Performance Restricted Share Plan Under the Performance Restricted Share Outstanding awards Plan, a cycle ended on 30 September 2004.
The performance measure related 2005 2006 Total Director 000 000 000 to the Companys Total Shareholder Return performance against a group Mike Bramley 293 302 595 of 11 comparator companies.
The Tim Clarke 450 459 909 Company nished in 11th position and Tony Hughes 293 302 595 no award was made.
The maximum Karim Naffah 315 324 639 potential awards to Directors are shown in the adjacent table.
Executive share options Executive share options Under the terms of the demerger from Six Continents PLC, Directors and other Shares Shares Weighted employees were permitted to roll over under Exerciseunderaverage option 2004 price option option their options granted under the Director at 28.9.
04 price Six Continents Executive Share Mike Bramley 740,781 265,346 252.5p 1,006,127 246.0p Option Schemes into options over Mitchells & Butlers shares.
In 2003 Tim Clarke 1,433,939 403,960 252.5p 1,837,899 250.1p and 2004 grants of options have been Tony Hughes 850,116 265,346 252.5p 1,115,462 248.8p made under the Mitchells & Butlers Karim Naffah 1,038,909 285,148 252.5p 1,324,057 231.5p Executive Share Option Plan and Directors executive share options No options lapsed or were exercised by Directors during the year.
at 25 September 2004 are summarised in the adjacent table.
All-employee share schemes Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The following Director was granted an option over the shares shown below in 2004 under the Sharesave Plan at 209p per share: Karim Naffah 4,509 All-employee share schemes Under the Share Incentive Plan SIP award in 2004, Executive Directors Sharesave became entitled to the following shares: Shares held Option Director through SIP Options price Mike Bramley 1,044 Tim Clarke 1,103 Mike Bramley 1,736 Tony Hughes 1,044 Tim Clarke 2,013 9,423 169p Karim Naffah 1,103 Tony Hughes 1,800 5,473 169p Karim Naffah 1,937 4,509 209p Directors interests under all-employee share schemes at 25 September 2004 are shown in the adjacent table.
Mitchells & Butlers TSR v FTSE 100 & 250 15 4 03 25 9 04 Total shareholder return TSR 160 From its listing on 15 April 2003 until Mitchells & Butlers 150 21 December 2003, the Company was FTSE 250 a constituent of the FTSE 100 index: 140 since then it has been included in the FTSE 100 130 FTSE 250 index.
The adjacent graph therefore measures the Companys 120 TSR performance against both indices.
110 100 Source: Datastream 90 A M J J A S O N D J F M A M J J A S 2003 2004 Mitchells & Butlers 30 Annual Review 2004 Investor information Registrar Individual savings accounts ISAs American depositary receipts ADRs The Companys Registrar is Lloyds TSB ISAs in Mitchells & Butlers plc ordinary The Companys ordinary shares Registrars.
Enquiries concerning holdings shares are available through the are listed on the New York Stock of the Companys ordinary shares Registrar and information may be Exchange in the form of American and notication of a holders change obtained from the address overleaf.
Depositary Shares, evidenced by ADRs.
of address should be referred to the All enquiries regarding ADR holder Registrar at the address shown overleaf.
Share price information accounts and the payment of dividends The latest Mitchells & Butlers plc should be directed to The Bank of Electronic communication share price is available in the financial New York, the authorised depositary, The Company has given e-mail press or on Ceefax and Teletext and at the address shown overleaf.
notification, to those shareholders also on the Financial Times Cityline who have requested it, of the Service, telephone 0906 003 1366 Form 20-F availability of this Annual Review calls charged at 60p per minute.
The Company is registered with the and Summary Financial Statement, Securities and Exchange Commission the Annual Report and Financial ShareGift SEC in the US and, as such, les Statements and the Notice of Annual The Orr Mackintosh Foundation with the SEC an Annual Report on General Meeting on the Companys operates this charity share donation Form 20-F.
Copies of the Form 20-F website, www.
scheme for shareholders with small may be obtained in the US by holdings of shares, whose value makes contacting The Bank of New York The website contains a link to enable them uneconomic to sell.
Details can at the address shown overleaf.
shareholders to register for future be obtained from the Registrar or the electronic communication, view ShareGift website www.
org or details of their own shareholding or by calling ShareGift on 020 7337 0501. appoint electronically a proxy to vote on their behalf on any poll that may Six Continents demerger be held at the forthcoming Annual The entitlements received by former General Meeting.
shareholders of Six Continents PLC on the separation of the Retail Shareholders who hold their Mitchells & Butlers and Hotels Mitchells & Butlers shares through InterContinental Hotels Group CREST may appoint proxies, through businesses, together with a summary the CREST electronic proxy appointment of the UK Capital Gains Tax treatment service, for the Companys forthcoming of those entitlements, are set out AGM, by using the procedures on the Companys website at described in the CREST manual.
The website also contains information to assist Amalgamating your share accounts in calculating the base cost of If you received more than one copy Six Continents ordinary shares to of this report, it may be because the demerger.
Alternatively this may Registrar has more than one record of be obtained through the Company shareholdings in your name.
To ensure Secretarys office at the Registered that you do not receive duplicate Office shown overleaf.
mailings in future, you can have all your shares amalgamated into one Special dividend and account by contacting the Registrar share consolidation at the address overleaf.
The Company paid, on 8 December 2003, a special dividend of 68p Dividend mandates per share to shareholders on the Shareholders, who wish dividends to be Register at the close of business paid directly into a bank building society on 1 December 2003. account, should contact the Registrar for a dividend mandate form.
This method As approved by shareholders on of payment removes the risk of delay 1 December 2003, the special dividend or loss of dividend cheques in the was accompanied by a consolidation of post and ensures that your account the Companys share capital, effective is credited on the due date.
from 2 December 2003, whereby shareholders received 12 new ordinary Low cost share dealing service shares for every 17 existing ordinary A postal facility, which provides a shares held on 1 December 2003. simple, low cost method of buying and selling Mitchells & Butlers plc ordinary shares, is available through the Companys Registrar.
Mitchells & Butlers 31 Annual Review 2004 Contacts Financial calendar Registered ofce 2004 27 Fleet Street Preliminary announcement of annual results Birmingham B3 1JP to 25 September 2004 1 December Telephone 44 0 870 609 3000 Final dividend ordinary shares Ex-dividend date 8 December Fax Record date 10 December 44 0 121 233 2246 Registrar 2005 Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway, Worthing Annual General Meeting 26 January West Sussex BN99 6DA Final dividend ordinary shares Payment date 31 January Telephone 44 0 870 241 3930 UK callers Final dividend ADRs Payment date 8 February 44 121 415 7088 non-UK callers Announcement of interim results May Fax 44 0 1903 702424 Interim dividend ordinary shares Payment date July Low cost share dealing service Interim dividend ADRs Payment date July and ISAs 0870 242 4244 Preliminary announcement of annual results November www.
co. uk to 1 October 2005 December Final dividend ordinary shares Payment date February 2006 For those with hearing difficulties, a text phone is available on 0870 600 3950 for callers with compatible equipment.
ADR depositary The Bank of New York Shareholder Relations PO Box 11258 Church Street Station New York NY 10286, USA Telephone 1 888 269 2377 US callers 1 610 382 7836 non-US callers Stockbrokers Cazenove & Co Merrill Lynch International Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Investment bankers Citigroup Solicitors Allen & Overy For further information visit www.
com This Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement contains certain forwardlooking statements as defined under US legislation Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
By their nature, such statements involve uncertainty: as a consequence, actual results and developments may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements.
A more detailed explanation of the risks and uncertainties related to forward-looking statements is set out on the inside back cover of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004, copies of which are available from the Registered Office of the Company.
Mitchells & Butlers 32 Annual Review 2004 Turnover Glossary Contents 1,560m Amenity: Formats: Same outlet invested like-for-like sales: design, dcor, furniture and facilities outlets where to the customers eye include all managed pubs that Up 4% from 1,504m 2003 that contribute to the environment the business trades without any overt were trading for the two periods and atmosphere of a pub.
Design and production Sheppard Day Print Royle Corporate Print Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Review and 27 Fleet Street, Birmingham B3 1JP Tel: 44 0 870 609 3000 Summary Financial Statement Fax: 44 0 121 233 2246 www.
