ACCOUNTING POLICIES 31 March 2004 Accounting Convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain freehold and long leasehold properties.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet include the financial statements of MITIE Group PLC and all its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold are included from or up to the effective date of acquisition or sale.
Accounting Developments The Group has adopted FRS 5 Application Note G during the year as this is the first year for which it is applicable.
It is considered appropriate under this Application Note that the Group now recognises revenue in respect of its performance under contracts as they progress where, in prior periods, revenue was only recognised on certain contracts for contract work completed in the year.
The Directors do not consider that the effect of implementing the Application Note is material in either period, with the consequence that the prior year Profit and Loss Account has not been restated.
Where appropriate, contract work in progress, amounts recoverable on contracts and trade debtors have been restated in respect of the prior year in order to make them comparable with the classifications being used this year.
Goodwill and Intangible Fixed Assets Goodwill is calculated as the surplus of fair value of purchase consideration over fair value attributed to the net assets of subsidiary undertakings acquired.
Following the introduction of FRS 10, goodwill in respect of acquisitions made after the financial year ended 31 March 1998 has been capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life of up to 20 years.
For acquisitions made before 1 April 1998, goodwill was written off directly to reserves.
In the event of a disposal of the businesses concerned, this goodwill will be included in determining the gain or loss on disposal in the Profit and Loss Account.
Tangible Fixed Assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on tangible fixed assets on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives.
No depreciation is provided on land.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years Plant 3-14 years Vehicles 4 years Financial Instruments The Group uses financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
To the extent that such instruments are matched against an underlying asset or liability, they are accounted for using hedge accounting.
Gains or losses and premiums or discounts are matched to the underlying transactions being hedged.
Foreign Currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
Investments Shares in Group companies are stated at cost less provision for impairment in value.
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Leased Assets Assets acquired under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets and depreciated in accordance with the above policy.
Outstanding future lease obligations are shown in creditors.
The finance element of the rental payments is charged to the Profit and Loss Account over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account in equal instalments over the lease term.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 37 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 31 March 2004 Work in Progress and Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs represent materials, direct labour and overheads.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Amounts recoverable on long-term contracts, which are included in debtors, are stated at the net sales value of the work done, less amounts received as progress payments on account.
Excess progress payments are included in creditors as payments on account.
Cumulative costs incurred net of amounts transferred to cost of sales, less provision for contingencies and anticipated future losses on contracts, are included as long-term contract balances in stock.
All bid costs are expensed as incurred until the stage is reached where it is virtually certain that the contract has been awarded.
Deferred Tax Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Turnover Turnover represents the total amount, excluding sales taxes, receivable in respect of goods and services supplied and contract work completed in the year.
All turnover arose within the United Kingdom.
Profit is recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the profit and loss account turnover and related costs as contract activity progresses.
Pensions The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
The Group also operates a fully insured defined contribution pension scheme, the assets of which are held in independently administered funds.
In respect of this scheme, the pension cost charge represents contributions payable by the Group in the year.
The Group has continued to account for pensions in accordance with SSAP 24 as illustrated above.
In November 2000 the Accounting Standards Board ASB issued FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, replacing SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
In November 2002 an amendment to FRS 17 was published, which allowed an extension to the transitional arrangements of FRS 17.
The Group is continuing to follow the transitional arrangements under FRS 17.
Provisions Provision is made for outstanding insurance claims incurred at the balance sheet date.
Provision is made for contingent consideration at the best estimate of the Directors, which will become payable in the future.
This has not been discounted.
38 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004
