com Report of the directors The Group is committed to employment policies that follow best Community involvement practice, based on equal opportunities for all, and recognises that a During the financial year, the Group made cash donations to diverse workforce is a strength in a competitive marketplace.
The charitable and community organisations totalling 427,000 of which Company has a Diversity Champion at Executive Committee level 192,000 was made from UK-based Group companies.
As in and integrates equal opportunity into all its management processes.
previous years, no political donations were made.
Further details This approach extends to the fair treatment of people with regarding the Companys involvement in the community are set disabilities in relation to their recruitment, training and development.
out in the corporate responsibility section of this report on pages Full consideration and every effort are given to the retention of 19 and 20. people who become disabled during employment.
O UK is a 2 member of the Employers Forum on Disability.
Auditors Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and Policy on the payment of suppliers authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed The Group aims to pay all of its creditors promptly.
The payment at the Annual General Meeting.
terms for major contracts are agreed at the same time as other terms are negotiated with individual suppliers.
It is the Groups policy Annual General Meeting to make payments for other purchases within 30 working days of The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be the invoice date, provided that the relevant invoice is presented in held on Wednesday, 28 July 2004, together with explanatory notes, a timely fashion and is complete.
appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all shareholders.
The Group had 34 days purchases outstanding as at 31 March 2004 2003: 32 days based on the average daily amount invoiced by By Order of the Board suppliers during the year.
Philip Bramwell Company Secretary and General Counsel 17 May 2004 Corporate governance Registered Ofce: Wellington Street, Slough, A report on corporate governance is set out on pages 45 to 50.
Berkshire SL1 1YP Registered number: 4190833 Statement of directors responsibility Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to the Group for that period.
ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity prudent: of the Group website.
The Directors understand that uncertainty state whether applicable accounting standards have been regarding legal requirements is compounded as information followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and published on the internet is accessible in many countries with explained in the financial statements.
different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The financial statements have complied with UK disclosure requirements in this By Order of the Board report in order to present a consistent picture to all shareholders.
Philip Bramwell Company Secretary and General Counsel
