com Denitions The following denitions apply throughout this document unless the context requires otherwise: Airwave................ A secure TETRA communications system for the emergency services and other Public Safety Users.
The first generation of mobile telecommunications technology in which radio signals are modulated proportionally by the strength and frequency of audio sounds.
ARPU.................. Average Revenue Per User.
BT.................... British Telecommunications public limited company, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 1800000.
BT Group............... BT Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings from time to time.
BT Group plc............ BT Group plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 4190816.
GPRS.................. General Packet Radio Service.
A technology, sometimes referred to as 2.5G, that allows customers to remain connected to the network between calls for the receipt and transmission of data.
The Global System for Mobile communications.
Originally dened as a pan-European standard for digital cellular telephone networks to support roaming, it is now one of the worlds main digital mobile standards.
Manx Telecom........... Manx Telecom Limited, a company incorporated in the Isle of Man with registered number 28059. mmO or the Company... mmO plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 4190833.
2 2 mmO Group or Group... mmO plc and its subsidiary undertakings from time to time.
2 2 mmO Ordinary Shares or 2 ordinary shares...........
Ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each in the capital of mmO.
2 MMS.................. Multimedia Messaging Services.
O.................... O Limited, formerly BT Wireless Limited, formerly Cellnet Group Limited, a company incorporated in 2 2 England and Wales with registered number 2604354 together, where the context requires, with its subsidiary and associated undertakings or, where the context so requires, a reference to our trade name or brand.
O Airwave.............. Airwave mmO Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales with a registered number 3985643.
2 2 O Germany............. O Germany GmbH & Co. OHG, formerly VIAG Interkom GmbH & Co. OHG, a company incorporated 2 2 in Germany.
O Ireland............... O Communications Ireland Limited, formerly Digifone mmO Limited, formerly Esat Digifone Limited, 2 2 2 a company incorporated in Ireland, together where the context requires with its subsidiary and associated undertakings.
O Netherlands........... O Netherlands B. V. formerly Telfort Mobiel BV, a company incorporated in the Netherlands.
2 2 O UK................. O UK Limited, formerly BT Cellnet Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales with registered 2 2 number 1743099 together, where the context requires, with its subsidiary and associated undertakings.
Public Safety Users or PSU.
Any organisation, as determined by Ofcom, which has broadly fullled the following criteria: a responds to emergencies: b is involved in emergency situations reasonably frequently: c is civilian, or is required to respond to civilian emergencies: and d requires interaction with those who respond to emergencies.
SMS................... a service sometimes known as text messaging, which enables mobile telephone users to send and receive written messages on their handsets.
TETRA................. Terrestrial Trunked Radio.
Radio technology used in networks that require a high level of security and availability.
UMTS.................. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System.
An international standard of third generation, or 3G, mobile telecommunications.
WAP.................. Wireless Application Protocol.
A global, open standard for accessing online services through mobile devices.
we or us or our....... mmO and or, if the context so requires, one or more members of the mmO Group.
2 2 mmO Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 2 C11448 mmO2 AR covers.
com mmO plc 2 Wellington Street Slough Berkshire SL1 1YP Registered No.
4190833 The paper used to produce this report is made from Elemental Chlorine Free Pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
Designed and produced by Paufey Ltd Printed in England by St Ives Burrups Limited.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 C11607 mmO2 AnnRev Covers.
qxd 2 6 04 15:11 Page FC 1 Connected Annual Review 2004 FC 1 C11607 mmO2 AnnRev IFC-03.
qxd 2 6 04 15:13 Page IFC 2 Introduction Financial and operating highlights Welcome to this, the third Annual continuing operations Review for your Company, mmO.
In the 2 Strong operating performance delivered across past year we have created a genuine the Group.
momentum in all the businesses that we Group reported first ever pre-tax profit.
believe can be carried forward Basic earnings per share of 1.9 pence.
Customer numbers exceeded 20 million for the In the year ended 31 March 2004, mmO passed an 2 first time.
important milestone, making its first ever pre-tax profit of 95 million compared with a loss of 10,203 million Data revenues over 1 billion.
The stock market recognised our achievement as our shares were the second best performer in the FTSE 100 index during 2003.
Total revenue from 1 Group turnover m Group EBITDA m continuing operations grew by 22 per cent to 5.65 billion, within which service revenues showed a 23 per cent increase to 5.03 billion and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items EBITDA grew by 59 per cent to 1.37 billion.
Excluding O 2 Netherlands, operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was 435 million compared with a loss of 18 million in the previous year but an exceptional operating charge of 75 million contributed to an operating profit of 159 million.
A combination of stronger EBITDA, controlled capital expenditure and 01 02 03 04 01 02 03 04 3,110 4,076 4,611 5,646 393 484 858 1,367 improved working capital management reduced net debt by 183 million to 366 million, below the level at the 1 EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and time of demerger.
exceptional items, excluding our share of operating profits and losses of our joint ventures and associates.
In February 2004 a proposal was received from KPN, the Dutch telecommunications group.
The Board carefully 2004 2003 2002 m m m considered the proposal but rejected it as not being in the best interests of mmO shareholders.
2 Group turnover 5,646 4,611 4,076 EBITDA before exceptional Operational review The O brand goes from strength 2 items 1,367 858 484 to strength in all our market territories, supported by Operating exceptional items 75 8,300 150 interactive sponsorships including that of the England Group operating profit loss 159 8,658 692 rugby team in its successful challenge for the 2003 Rugby Capital expenditure 1,213 885 1,045 World Cup.
All the businesses have shown improved Year-end net debt 366 549 617 performance, exploiting new opportunities represented by the integration of voice and data services and Please see cautionary statement regarding sharpening their focus on the needs of their customers.
Although we have come a long way in the two years Contents IFC Financial and operating highlights continuing operations since our demerger, we are not complacent.
In a highly IFC Introduction by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer competitive environment, we recognise that we have a 4 Brand overview: Connected great deal more to do to ensure continued progress.
8 Business review Our paramount aim is to generate sustainable profitable 12 Board of directors growth a challenging combination in any business.
14 Summary directors report We are not chasing subscribers at any cost.
A year ago we 16 Summary directors remuneration report explained that our businesses would focus on improving 18 Corporate responsibility the experience of high-value customers for O s voice and 2 19 Summary financial statement 20 Summary supplementary information for United States investors 21 Additional information for shareholders IFC 2 C11607 mmO2 AnnRev IFC-03.
com 1 data products and services.
Success would mean greater success in attracting a high-value customer base.
We have customer loyalty and lower rates of churn.
Also, it would achieved annual growth in our customer base of nearly mean a better mix of customers, with a greater emphasis 25 per cent in the last two years and are closing the gap on post-pay users, and higher average revenues per user on our nearest competitor.
At the same time, we committed ourselves to an improved operational performance, to tight financial In the case of O Ireland, we have taken a good business 2 discipline and to seek out and exploit new opportunities and made it an even better one.
We were delighted to develop our businesses.
that this was reflected in O Ireland being named 2 Telecommunications Company of the Year at ICT Expo.
We are pleased to say that O businesses have successfully Growth in service revenues has continued at a strong 2 delivered in the past year against the commitments we pace and the EBITDA margin showed a further rise to made.
Across all our territories we have shown nearly 40 per cent.
impressive growth in subscribers, reflecting the success of our segmented and focused approach to the O Airwave, with its 2.9 billion, 19-year contract 2 needs of customers.
This achievement has been to supply secure communications for the UK police coupled everywhere with higher profitability, driven forces and emergency services, has become our fourth by improvements in the quality of our customer base substantial business with positive EBITDA ahead of and greater operational efficiency.
At the same time, we schedule this year.
From a standing start we are now well have successfully developed new business opportunities.
over halfway through the national roll-out of the Airwave network to 35 police forces with over 50,000 officers We would like to illustrate this by highlighting just some using the system.
Completion of the network is expected of the achievements made by each of the operating in March 2005, ushering in a rapid transformation of O 2 businesses: At O UK, our customer base grew by 10 per cent and 2 profitability, as measured by our EBITDA margin, improved to over 30 per cent.
Since demerger, EBITDA at O UK has 2 risen 55 per cent.
By the end of the year we had shown ten quarters of continuous improvements in the mix of customers and, over the period, a significant reduction in the rate of churn.
This clearly reflects the progress we have made in implementing our strategy.
Our efforts to improve network quality, a vital ingredient in customer satisfaction, were recognised by Oftel, which named O UK as having the best ever published national call 2 success rates.
New opportunities for growth are being realised through Tesco Mobile, our joint venture with one of the UKs most powerful retail channels, which is addressing the family market, complementing O UKs 2 focus on high-value customers.
Tesco Mobile is already available in more than 500 UK outlets and the initial aim is to attract two million subscribers.
By the beginning of May 2004, 250,000 customers had signed up to Tesco Mobile well ahead of initial targets.
In O Germany, we have turned a loss-maker into a 2 business with convincing momentum, a rising market share, EBITDA margin in the mid-teens and improving cash flow.
O Germany is now the fastest growing mobile 2 phone operator in Germany and has the highest ARPU and the best mix of customers of any German operator.
Our market share by number of subscribers is 9 per cent but by subscriber revenues it is 10 per cent, reflecting David Varney, Chairman left Peter Erskine, Chief Executive Officer right 2 1 C11607 mmO2 AnnRev IFC-03.
We are also in the factors.
In view of this, we do not see a compelling mass advanced stages of bidding for the nationwide Fire and market for 3G until the 2005 06 financial year.
Ambulance Service contracts, and actively marketing to other Public Safety Users.
Mobile alliance In October 2003, O Germany, O UK and 2 2 O Ireland forged an alliance with other independent 2 Manx Telecom, which has been a pioneer in 3G technology, European mobile phone operators in order to exploit has been awarded a 15-year extension to its operating significant opportunities in the joint marketing and licence by the Manx Government and is building a sourcing of our products and services under the Starmap GPRS network to complement its main network.
Customers embrace multimedia services We continue to The aim of the alliance is to provide a home-away-fromview non-voice services as a potentially significant source home experience by introducing seamless roaming, of future growth.
Last year there was a key breakthrough.
flat rate tariffs and MMS connectivity across members Many of our customers, using our higher speed 2.5G networks.
It will enable us to be quick to market across service GPRS, began to use mobile phones not borders with innovative new products and services, only to make voice calls and send text messages, but to including our Xda II, and to secure cost savings through download games and music, watch video streams, surf the joint sourcing of devices and SIMs together with joint bids internet and send e-mails.
We saw the take-up of these on major corporate contracts.
applications and services grow at an encouraging rate during the year the number of customers using GPRS Community In July 2003, we published our first Corporate more than tripled.
Demand has been driven by the arrival Responsibility CR report.
In July 2004, we will be of colour screen handsets at reasonable prices and publishing a second report which will be available to the availability of a widening range of multimedia shareholders, or can be viewed on our website, where applications.
In a young but competitive market, our our progress and achievements will be laid out in detail.
We were first to market Our approach to CR is embedded in our business.
We are with O Music, allowing customers to download music to committed to acting responsibly in all our activities and 2 their mobile phones wherever they are: and we were the to win the trust of customers, shareholders and industry first with video streaming, making available exclusive regulators.
We believe in being an active participant in highlights from the Rugby World Cup and, more recently, the communities in which we operate, for example London Fashion Week via our O Active portal.
We now through our Can Do in the Community investment 2 earn revenues of more than 1 billion per year from noninitiative, which has programmes in the UK, Germany, voice services.
The strong pace of growth is not reliant Ireland and the Isle of Man.
As our CR report will show, only on SMS text messaging, which is still expanding and we have made good progress in our market places, where we remain market leaders in the UK with a share communities, workplaces and supply chains.
Other applications, including picture messaging, games, e-mail, internet surfing and the use of In 2003 04, we chose the International Youth Foundation our Xda II combined phone and personal digital assistant, as our Charity of the Year.
mmO and IYF have jointly 2 will be an engine of continued future growth.
developed a programme of projects to empower young people by fostering educational achievement, 3G to become a reality this year We regard the technological awareness, life skills and citizenship.
development of a high speed 3G network as an exciting prospect, bringing substantial benefits, over time, to our In the belief that our mobile services can tackle real customers.
It will allow us to offer a range of enhanced social needs, we have continued with our trial to monitor services that users will value.
We have already invested the condition of asthma sufferers using our Xda device.
to meet our regulatory requirement to offer 25 per cent The trial is now being extended to cystic fibrosis.
network coverage in Germany and 35 per cent in Ireland, In conjunction with Millys Fund, Teach UR Mum 2 Txt while we continue to take a measured approach to the is another initiative we have taken to use mobile roll-out this year of our 3G network in the UK.
We are technology to meet social needs.
We were delighted concentrating on areas where there is already evidence of that Teach UR Mum 2 Txt won Best Use of Mobile for high usage of mobile data services.
In simple terms, when Accessibility in the GSM Association Annual Awards for we introduce our 3G service, we want it to provide a 2004.
External recognition of our efforts has also been good customer experience.
Industry issues concerning the reflected in our inclusion in both the FTSE4Good index price, size and weight of 3G handsets, seamless roaming and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and a high from 2 or 2.5G to 3G networks, and international position in the Corporate Responsibility Index introduced roaming, together with reliability, are still to be resolved.
by Business in the Community.
The speed of take-up of 3G will depend on all these 2 C11607 mmO2 AnnRev IFC-03.
com 3 Public health and safety The health and safety of customers, joining mmO as a non-executive Director on 1 April 2003, 2 employees and the public is of the highest importance to us.
David Arculus has made a considerable contribution to In this respect we welcomed the report of the Advisory the Board and brings extensive experience to the position Group on Non-Ionising Radiation.
The report confirmed the of Chairman.
findings of the Stewart Report in 2000, concluding that the overwhelming balance of scientific evidence suggests mobile Looking ahead After a better than expected 2003 04, phone technologies do not cause adverse effects on public we anticipate that the coming year, which will see the health.
Along with our colleagues in the mobile phone arrival of high-speed 3G services, will be even more industry, we will continue to address public concerns and, in exciting and challenging.
Competition for customers will particular, are actively supporting the 7.4 million three-year be tough, both from new entrants and from established Mobile Telecommunications Health Research Programme.
operators seeking to differentiate their services.
There are now eight players in the UK market, making it the most Enhanced features of mobile technology have given rise competitive in Europe.
This is good for customers and to a widening range of innovative services that can be better, by far, than unnecessary regulation.
We believe accessed over the internet some of which may deal in that competition, not regulation, should be the driver content of an adult nature.
In January 2004, we were in our market, and we welcome the challenge to deliver party to the publication of a Code of Practice agreed by value and exploit the many opportunities we see to all UK mobile operators for self-regulation of new forms create innovative new sources of growth.
The Code calls for independent classification thanks to our leaner central overheads, we will become of content, age verification and other measures including a more agile business, with a more local touch.
We have the monitoring of chat rooms, filtering of content and the ability to continue to increase revenues and profits reporting of illegal content where necessary.
O is more rapidly than our major competitors.
Building on 2 committed to acting responsibly and giving our customers the turnaround achieved since demerger, our German choice, as well as providing the ability to protect the business is now experiencing high levels of growth and vulnerable.
To this end, O has undertaken a wide-ranging is rapidly becoming a credible force in Europes largest 2 campaign to educate and raise awareness among parents, market.
The momentum we have developed will be teachers and guardians of some of the risks faced by sustained by rising market share in Germany, an children using mobile phones.
improving mix of customers in the UK, the growth of valued new mobile data services, the transformation of Board and organisation In 2003 04, we recognised an the financial performance of O Airwave and positive 2 exceptional operating charge of 75 million to cover the benefits from our Starmap Mobile Alliance and the Tesco costs of a restructuring of our central operations and the Mobile joint venture.
resultant rationalisation of our property portfolio.
Two years ago we inherited weak operating companies and Having reported positive full-year earnings and cash flow sought to offset this, initially, by strengthening our for the first time, and with the businesses demonstrating central operations, locating, for example, Products O and continued positive momentum, we will now review our 2 O Online centrally to develop products and services.
distribution policy, aiming to announce this with our 2 Subsequently, we have significantly improved our Interim Results in November 2004. operating businesses and strengthened the teams who run them.
As a result, we have pushed many of the central functions back out to our operating businesses, all of which are now highly customer-focused.
We expect the restructuring and property rationalisation to generate annual cost savings of 40-45 million.
As a consequence of the reduction in central functions, which included devolving staff to our operating businesses, Kent Thexton, who oversaw the launch of Peter Erskine the O brand and led the Products O and O Online Chief Executive Officer 2 2 2 businesses, stepped down as an executive Director in February 2004 and, on leaving the Group at the end of March 2004, returned to his native Canada.
In early May 2004, the Company announced that David Arculus would succeed David Varney as Chairman at the David Varney conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
com Connected Our goal is to make the O brand synonymous with innovation and quality.
We want 2 to be an integral part of our customers lives, providing exceptional and memorable experiences of the mobile phone.
By recognising, valuing and responding to their needs in lifestyle, the home, business and the community our business remains profitable, responsible, original and vibrant.
Over 20 million customers Focused on profitable growth We now serve over 20 million customers in the UK, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man and offer international roaming to 150 countries worldwide.
Changing the way sport is sponsored Helping to enrich and enliven our customers lives, weve concentrated on creating world-leading interactive partnerships with global brands like Arsenal, England Rugby, BMW Williams Formula 1 and Bayer Leverkusen.
Working with these high profile partners, our aim is to spread the benefits of sponsorship down to the grass roots.
Creating a Can Do culture Investment in the O brand has yielded high 2 levels of spontaneous awareness across all our markets.
The hallmarks of the brand are fresh thinking and making a difference to create a better experience for our customers.
Our brand and our people work hard to meet those expectations.
com 5 On every High Street As well as driving excellence through our own stores, weve teamed with major UK retailer, Tesco, to launch Tesco Mobile a new, simple, value for money mobile service through over 500 of its stores.
The home of text, the hub of multimedia With more than 11 billion text messages sent via O networks in 2003 04, we have 2 established a clear leadership in this market.
We also introduced multimedia messaging, pioneering the fastgrowing market for new generation data services such as music, video, e-mail and games.
Fast growing Fuelled by the success of the unique Genion HomeZone service, O Germany is now the fastest growing 2 operator in the territory recording annual growth in our customer base of nearly 25 per cent in the last two years.
It attracted more than a million new customers in 2003 04, of which 70 per cent were on high-value contracts.
Award winning Our commitment to the customer experience was publicly endorsed when Oftel named O UK the best ever for UK mobile 2 network performance beating all previously published national call success rates.
Our Irish business also took first prize as ICT Telecoms Company of the Year.
Providing a useful service O Airwave our business providing secure 2 communications for all the police forces on mainland Britain is on track to complete national roll-out to all police officers by 2005.
With ambulance and fire services also now considering moving to Airwave, the emergency services would have unbroken interoperability for the first time ever, when and where it matters most.
com Europes largest internet mobile channel Our internet service provides pioneering technology for customers who want to surf the net, access their accounts, manage their bills and download ringtones and games online.
It now attracts two million visitors and 50 million page hits every month.
home-away-from-home Shaping the future As a founder of the Starmap Mobile Alliance, O is planning for the new 2 generation of mobile telephony, 3G.
The alliance promises speedy access to new products, seamless roaming services, simple flat rate tariffs and a home-away-from-home experience for more than 46 million customers in 10 countries across Europe.
First in participation TV We were quick to spot the explosion of participation TV and are now the leading provider of text messaging services on hit TV shows such as Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?
The final of Pop Idol 2, for example, attracted 1.4 million text votes in the first hour.
Way ahead in mobile music Weve signed deals with all leading major music labels and independents to bring a choice of over 40,000 tracks to customers via their mobile phones anywhere, anytime.
com 7 Committed to community Making a connection with people is integral to O.
We want to be at the heart of communities by listening to and 2 learning from everyones views.
Our chosen charities, including the International Youth Foundation and Millys Fund, benefit not only from funding, but from our technology too.
Our Teach UR Mum 2 Txt initiative was honoured with the GSM Associations Best Use of Mobile for Accessibility award which aims to highlight the positive social benefits that GSM mobile communications have brought to people and communities globally.
Intuitive and tuned in Our award winning, easy to use, data services menu, O Active, has fast become 2 the UKs most widely used mobile portal.
Enabling news, sport, entertainment, games and ringtones to be downloaded instantly to mobile phones, its been an immediate hit across our markets.
1 billion a year Forward thinking Until not long ago our revenues were all from traditional voice telephony.
Today our customers spend over 1 billion a year on data services such as text messaging, e-mail on the move, games and internet surfing.
Offering more to society than mobile phones Using our technology in innovative ways, we are pioneering new applications and services that can benefit society.
From remote monitoring of asthma sufferers, to paying for congestion charges and downloading traffic information our mobile phones are increasingly a lifeline as well as a lifestyle.
com Business review O s businesses performed ahead of expectations, creating real momentum in the 2 drive for profitable growth.
Our first ever pre-tax profit is proof that we are achieving our strategic priority to capture and keep more and more high-value customers.
All O businesses generated profitable growth in the year O Airwave, which is supplying a network of secure 2 2 ended 31 March 2004. communications to the police forces and other Public Safety Users in England, Scotland and Wales, continued This achievement was the result of a clear corporate to develop rapidly.
strategy: Manx Telecom is unique within O, providing mobile, 2 to improve the experience of high-value customers for fixed line and internet services on the Isle of Man.
It was O s voice and data products and services: also the pioneer of 3G networks, the platform on which 2 to increase the value of the customer mix by attracting a O, in measured stages, will increasingly supply services 2 greater proportion of higher spending post-pay users: Europe-wide.
to encourage higher levels of customer retention.
Our technology At the heart of O s improved 2 At the same time, we committed ourselves to developing performance is the general packet radio service GPRS, the businesses further through the energetic pursuit of or 2.5G.
This achieved mass-market maturity and rapid new opportunities, better operational performance and growth during the year.
GPRS provides always on connectivity for picture All of our businesses achieved rapid growth in subscribers messaging, office services, e-mail, e-commerce, banking, during the year.
Higher profitability was also recorded online billing, entertainment, mobile internet and other across the Group which was driven by a richer mix of data services.
Fuelled by the launch of affordable colour customers and greater operational efficiency.
screen handsets and new multimedia applications, the number of customers using GPRS more than tripled in the Our Group O is a leading provider of mobile year and applications and services were taken up 2 communications services in Europe, with wholly owned enthusiastically across all territories.
businesses in the UK, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
The trend enabled O to launch Europes first mobile 2 Together these target a total population of 148 million music service, allowing customers to download a choice people.
For the first time our total active subscriber base of over 40,000 tracks to their mobile phones.
Video broke through 20 million during the year and we now streaming was also launched, bringing Rugby World Cup provide international mobile roaming to 150 countries highlights and other sports to O mobile handsets.
Only a few years ago, all O revenues came from 2 The businesses in the UK and Ireland are both established traditional voice telephony.
Today our customers spend and profitable, with a track record of revenue and more than 1 billion a year on other services, including customer growth, and a strong presence in high-value text messaging, e-mail, games and internet surfing.
markets such as business as well as mobile data services.
Such innovations put us on track to achieve our strategic O Germany is now the fastest growing operator in the goal of earning growing revenues from more 2 country.
Its 6 million customers account for the highest sophisticated data services.
Nevertheless, we continue to ARPU of any German operator, a major factor in the lead the field in simple text messaging, with a staggering ongoing transition to EBITDA profitability during the year.
11 billion texts sent over our networks during 2003 04.
com 9 We also saw the rapid growth in participation TV Our strategy We have a number of specific growth programmes, where we lead the field.
The final of Pop opportunities including market share growth in Germany, Idol 2, for example, attracted 1.4 million text votes in the improving our customer mix in the UK and Ireland, first hour.
O Airwave moving into full operation, and maximising 2 the potential of key partnerships such as Tesco Mobile.
GPRS technology, however, is a transitional stage in the gradual roll-out of universal mobile telephone services We will build on the momentum created by our extremely UMTS, or 3G networks.
Over time, these will bring successful brand, ensuring that whenever customers come significant benefits to customers, such as high-resolution into contact with us the expectations created by the video, higher speed multimedia services and other brand are met.
This requires us to understand clearly the enhancements.
different needs of our customers, to deliver a range of targeted service packages, to develop efficient customer We have secured licences to operate 3G services in the relationship management CRM systems and to transform UK, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
We believe it our retail presence.
In this way, we aim to become an is imperative that these roll out progressively, and only integral part of customers lives and improve our ability when we can offer customers a genuinely dynamic service to attract and retain higher-value customers.
and a range of affordable handsets with respectable battery life.
As a result, we do not expect to see a mass We have already established a strong position in mobile market for 3G until late 2005. data.
To maintain this strength, we will continue to make these services more accessible and usable for customers Our products and services In line with our strategy, and to deliver compelling content, services and devices.
our online channel is designed to attract high-value customers, reduce churn and generate revenues by As a Group, we are smaller than some of our providing high-quality content and closer relationships international competitors and we will exploit this with customers.
We are pleased with the success of this relatively small scale to our advantage.
We have recently service, which has recorded a 127 per cent increase in reorganised our operations to improve the speed and online subscribers in the year to March 2004, of which quality of execution while also developing and around half were post-pay customers.
communicating a local touch in each market.
We continue to focus on our European footprint of wholly We are committed to increasing the value of our offering owned businesses.
O s corporate handheld e-mail device, 2 BlackBerry, is central to this.
Since launch, more than Our results this year illustrate the value of our segmented 55,000 devices have been sold to over 2,000 organisations.
We are experiencing greater customer loyalty, a richer mix of customers with more emphasis on post-pay or Following the success of our Xda device, this years launch contract packages, together with higher average returns.
of our own-brand X1 picture phone and Xda II secondgeneration pocket PC highlighted our ability to offer O UK 2 innovative products to our customers.
Total revenue up 14 per cent to 3,451 million EBITDA increased by 24 per cent to 1,041 million Designed to make the mobile phone more intuitive and EBITDA margin up 2 percentage points to 30 per cent easier to use, O Active has been an instant success.
An 2 award winning, data services menu, it quickly became the O UKs focus has been to target high-value market 2 UKs most widely used mobile portal.
sectors, to stimulate greater usage and to improve customer satisfaction through systems and network Mobile alliance In October 2003, our businesses in investment.
Our success in pursuing this goal was Germany, the UK and Ireland became founder members demonstrated during the year by a continued of the Starmap Mobile Alliance, a group of independent improvement in the value of the mix of customers, mobile phone operators who are joining forces in helping to drive a rise in EBITDA margin to 30 per cent.
readiness for the international roll-out of 3G services.
Starmap aims to provide a home-away-from-home The business now has 13.3 million customers, 10 per cent experience by introducing seamless roaming and higher than the same time last year.
Net new connections multimedia connectivity to more than 46 million totalled 1.2 million for the year.
Importantly, the customers in 10 European countries.
It will enable proportion of higher value contract customers rose as members to be quick to market across borders with new well, as did average revenues per post-pay user, which products and services and will increase inbound roaming increased from 503 to 525. revenues for alliance partners.
com Pre-pay subscribers also grew strongly most significantly EBITDA profit margins reached the mid-teens and market in the youth market showing an increase in users share grew from 8 per cent to 9 per cent.
New bolt-on packages, such as O Home for low cost home-based mobile calls, Close attention to operational performance, strict cost 2 helped stimulate pre-pay usage.
management and strong growth particularly among highvalue contract customers, saw the business move from loss We were delighted that the regulator Oftel gave O UK into profit for the first time during the year.
2 recognition for the best national call success rates ever published by a UK mobile operator.
The achievement We concentrated on increasing customer loyalty with the reflects our efforts to improve quality, a vital factor in launch in October 2003 of an online loyalty programme customer satisfaction, retention and loyalty.
designed to increase ARPU and reduce churn.
This was coupled with a lifecycle management scheme to During the year, revenue from non-voice services increase retention and profitability from both pre-pay accounted for over 20 per cent of total UK revenues, the and post-pay markets.
highest of any mobile player.
By the end of the year, nearly 9 per cent of this was coming from services other Investment in CRM projects continued and we also than text messaging.
plugged gaps in our retail distribution network.
We now have 470 shops including partnerships with Along with other initiatives, the roll-out of a new CRM other retailers.
system has helped us to improve customer satisfaction.
Part of this system now allows us for the first time to With 25 per cent population coverage on our own connect new customers real time in our retail stores.
network and a roaming agreement with T-Mobile, we Our overall customer satisfaction score, measured started 3G user trials and will launch a full commercial independently, continued to improve.
We expanded our network of O retail stores by 41 to The unique Genion HomeZone service which 2 reach 235 outlets by the end of the year, with store sales combines advanced technology with reduced tariffs in rising by 25 per cent.
defined geographical areas continued to sharpen the focus on more profitable customers and lower churn.
co. uk signed its The service has considerably enhanced our success in the one-millionth customer in October 2003 making it the business sector too, attracting such major new customers most successful service of its kind in Europe and we also as Bertelsmann, Kraft Foods and Xerox.
Genion customers joined forces with Tesco, one of the UKs most powerful made up over 40 per cent of the total customer base at retailers, to launch Tesco Mobile, a new 50:50 joint 31 March 2004. venture targeting family users, within just 16 weeks of signing the agreement.
By the beginning of May 2004, Text messaging remains the main source of data revenue the service had attracted more than 250,000 customers, growth, but we are delighted that more than 20 per cent many of them new to the UK mobile market.
of the O Germany customer base now uses non-SMS data 2 services.
Our e-mail and surf & e-mail packages Brand awareness also increased thanks to our sponsorship introduced in September 2003 provide competitive, of Englands World Cup winning rugby team and the 2003 transparently priced, flat rate services.
Additionally, FA Cup winners and new Premiership champions, Arsenal.
Multicard was launched in October 2003, proving popular with customers wishing to surf the internet while also O Germany making phone calls.
2 Total revenue up 42 per cent to 1,508 million EBITDA increased by 733 per cent to 225 million Our high profile brand-building continued as we became EBITDA margin up 12 percentage points to 15 per cent a sponsor of the BMW Williams Formula 1 team and were granted a coveted Effie advertising award.
Alongside a strong rise in customers, O Germany has 2 achieved ARPU growth of over 30 per cent in two years.
O Ireland 2 The business now has a more valuable mix of customers Total revenue up 20 per cent to 529 million than any other German operator and is the fastest EBITDA increased by 32 per cent to 208 million growing mobile business in the territory.
EBITDA margin up 4 percentage points to 39 per cent In 2003 04, the business attracted 1.2 million new In a challenging market where mobile phone penetration customers, over 70 per cent of which were on contracts.
stands at 88 per cent of the total population, O Ireland 2 10 C11607 mmO2 AnnRev 08-11. qxd 2 6 04 15:03 Page 11 mmo2.
com 11 continued to focus on its customers.
Despite tough secured additional business worth 50 million in total competition, we recruited 136,000 new customers over over the next 10 years.
O Airwave has also been 2 the year.
These gains were assisted by the introduction of short-listed to supply the nationwide ambulance new reduced price and flexible tariffs for both pre-pay communications network and for the equivalent fire and post-pay customers and tailored offerings to different service contract.
A sophisticated, fully encrypted digital radio system that Our All Ireland tariff, introduced in September 2003, cannot be scanned or monitored by outsiders, Airwave eliminated roaming charges between the Republic will, on completion, allow full interoperability and of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
Group Worker was seamless communications between the emergency launched for business users, separating the mobile calls services for the first time.
of employees into personal and work-related calls.
Manx Telecom With full mobile number portability FMNP effective Total revenue up 4 per cent to 50 million from July 2003, O Ireland launched a public awareness EBITDA increased by 21 per cent to 23 million 2 campaign its most successful ever to tell customers EBITDA margin up 6 percentage points to 46 per cent they could change network without losing their mobile number.
Manx Telecom, the only part of our business that does not trade under the O brand, is committed to 2 We concentrated on maintaining the high quality of our establishing a world-class telecommunications network.
The 3G network progressed well and limited infrastructure on the Isle of Man.
It has invested around trials of the service commenced in January 2004, with 50 million in this over the past five years.
The company provides a full range of fixed, mobile and In a programme to provide wireless broadband services, internet services and, at the forefront of new technology, we became the only Irish mobile operator to gain was a pioneer in 3G creating and trialling Europes first government funding to install wi-fi hotspots to selected ever network.
Separately, we rolled out over 20 hotspots nationally in hotels, airports, bus and Significantly, the Manx Government awarded us a new train stations and business centres.
In May 2003, Manx Telecom launched its 2.5G service, followed by picture In the corporate market, new customers joining our messaging in July 2003.
It also launched a wholesale network included Campbell Soups and Atlantic Industries.
simple message service, which more than doubled the volume of text messages generated from the island.
Our operational excellence was recognised by a number of industry awards.
In April 2003, O Ireland was named Our internet business also continued to develop.
In 2 Telecoms Company of the Year at the ICT Expo Awards.
December 2003, we completed a programme to install ADSL technology at our telephone exchanges, to deliver Brand recognition hit a new high during the year with fast broadband services to our customers.
Around 98 per total spontaneous awareness of the O brand, at 69 per cent of households and businesses on the island can now 2 cent, higher than any of our competitors in the Irish access broadband internet.
An increase in customer satisfaction scores was also recorded during the period.
For the first time, the companys mobile customers exceeded the number of fixed line customers.
O Airwave A significant business in the UK has grown 2 from the supply of secure communications to police forces Network quality and customer satisfaction continue and emergency services.
O Airwave with its 2.9 billion, to be a strategic priority for us.
We measure customer 2 19-year contract with the UK Home Office rolled out this satisfaction regularly and scores during the year to powerful service to 35 police forces with over 50,000 the end of March 2004 showed that we continue to officers by the end of 2003 04 and the business is already rate highly.
Airwave is on track to be made available to all police forces in mainland Britain by March 2005.
In summary O is determined to provide an exciting and 2 ever-improving customer experience.
The key to achieving Opportunities are not restricted to police forces.
We are this will be a competitive combination of innovation, licensed by the DTI to offer our service to 100 other quality and price with strong O brand awareness, excellent 2 defined Public Safety Users in the UK and have already customer care and unrivalled community relations.
David Varney 58 Chairman Non-executive Directors David Varney was appointed to the Board in 2001 as full-time Chairman.
In 4, 5 April 2003, he became part-time Chairman as envisaged at the time of the 6.
Andrew Sukawaty 48 demerger from BT.
He has extensive experience both in the UK and overseas Andrew Sukawaty was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Sukawaty is the nonmarkets gained during his four years as Chief Executive Officer of BG Group executive Deputy Chairman of the Company and senior independent Director.
He is formerly British Gas from 1996 to 2000.
Prior to joining BG Group, he held a Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Inmarsat Group.
He is President of Cable variety of senior roles in Shell including the position of Managing Director of AB Partners Europe LLC, which invests in and operates cable television services Svenska Shell in Sweden and Director of Shell International with responsibility for in Europe.
He is also Chairman of Telenet and Deputy Chairman of Xyratex Group Shells Oil Products business in Europe.
He is also Chairman of Business in the Limited.
He has considerable experience in the mobile telephone industry and Community and President of the Council for the Institute of Employment Studies.
telecommunications industries in the United States and Europe having at different He will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys Annual times in those periods held the offices of Chief Executive and President of Sprint General Meeting being held on 28 July 2004.
PCS, Chief Executive Officer of NTL and Chief Operating Officer of Mercury One2One, where he launched the worlds first digital Personal Communications Services company.
He has also been a former Chairman of the Cellular Telephone Executive Directors and Internet Association CTIA in the United States.
Peter Erskine 52 Chief Executive Officer 7.
David Arculus 57 Peter Erskine was appointed to the Board in 2001 as the Companys Chief Executive David Arculus was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
Mr Arculus is Chairman Officer.
He joined the Company from BT where, since March 1993, he held a of Severn Trent, a position which he will relinquish by the end of 2004, and the number of senior positions including Director of BT Mobile, President and Chief Better Regulation Task Force and a non-executive Director of Barclays.
Mr Arculus Executive of Concert, and, from 1998, Managing Director of BT Cellnet.
Prior to was previously Chairman of IPC Group Limited and, before that, Group Managing joining BT he was European Vice President of Sales and Customer Service for Mars Director of EMAP.
Mr Arculus will become Chairman on 28 July 2004 at the and Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing for UNITEL.
Mr Erskine was appointed conclusion of the Companys 2004 Annual General Meeting.
to the Advisory Board of the University of Reading Business School in July 2003.
David Finch 48 Chief Financial Officer David Chance was appointed to the Board in 2003.
Mr Chance was Deputy David Finch was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Finch is the Companys Chief Managing Director of BSkyB until June 1998 and is Chairman of Modern Times Financial Officer and has extensive experience in financial management having Group and Top Up TV Limited, and is a non-executive Director of ITV and previously held senior finance positions at Exel, Novar formerly Caradon and Sunderland AFC.
He previously held senior marketing and business development Grand Metropolitan.
In addition to Group Finance, he has direct responsibility for roles at US telecoms companies, Scientific Atlanta and Grass Valley Group, and the Group Treasury and Investor Relations functions.
Stephen Hodge 62 Rudolf Grger was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
He joined the Stephen Hodge was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Hodge was Director of Company in October 2001 as Chief Executive Officer of O Germany.
Prior to this, 2 Finance of the Royal Dutch Shell Group, prior to his retirement in September 2001, he was Managing Director of T-Systems International GmbH, a subsidiary of where he had responsibility for all financial and investor relations issues for the Shell Deutsche Telekom, from 1999 to 2001.
He played a key role in the acquisition of Group and its parent companies.
He has extensive knowledge of the financial Debis Systemhaus GmbH and its integration into Deutsche Telekom.
He has also management of international companies, having worked throughout the world worked for Siemens and was head of its German information and communication including Australia, the Netherlands, Venezuela and Argentina in a variety of product operations.
He is Chairman of Shell Pensions Trust Limited and a member of the Franchise Board of Lloyds of London.
David McGlade 43 CEO O UK 2 1, 5 David McGlade was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
Neelie Kroes 62 O UK previously called BT Cellnet in October 2000.
Before being appointed as 2 Neelie Kroes was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Ms Kroes is a member of the Managing Director of BT Cellnet, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Supervisory Boards of a number of Dutch enterprises including Crio, Lucent PureMatrix, a mobile webnet software company based in Colorado, and remains a Technologies, Nederlandse Spoorwagen, New Skies Satellites and Royal P&O non-executive Director of this company.
He was also President and Chief Executive Nedlloyd.
She is also a member of the Supervisory Boards of Volvo Group, Thales Officer of Catch TV, President West Region of Sprint PCS where he launched the Group and Prologis.
She is a former President of Nijenrode University in the first CDMA network outside Asia and a Vice President of TCI.
Mr McGlade is also Netherlands.
Before this, she served as Adviser to the European Transport a board member of the GSM Association and Tesco Mobile.
Commissioner and also served two periods, in the Netherlands, as Cabinet Minister of Transport, Public Works and Telecommunications and Secretary of State for Transport, Public Works and Telecommunications.
She was also a member of the Dutch Parliament and a member of the Rotterdam Municipal Council.
Andrew Harley 43 Group HR Director Ian Meakins was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Meakins is currently President, Andrew Harley joined the Company from BT, where he had worked since 1980.
European Major Markets and Global Supply of Diageo.
He has held a number Before being appointed as Senior Vice President, HR, BT Wireless in February 2001, of senior marketing and operational directorships since joining United Distillers Mr Harley was Senior Vice President, Human Resources, BTopenworld, BTs fixed in 1992 from strategic management consultants, The Kalchas Group, where internet service provider, and before that he was Human Resources Director for BT he was a founding partner.
Prior to this, he worked at Bain & Company and Cellnet.
Mr Harley was also Human Resources Director for Telenordia in Sweden.
Richard Poston 44 Director Corporate Affairs 4, 5 12.
Paul Myners 56 Richard Poston joined the Company in 2001.
Previously Mr Poston was the Director Paul Myners was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Mr Myners is Chairman of of Communications for TI Group from 1999 to 2001 and, prior to this, Director of Guardian Media Group, Aspen Insurance Holdings and Tate Trustees and a Corporate Communications for Racal Electronics from 1994 to 1999.
He held a non-executive Director of The Bank of New York and Marks & Spencer.
He was number of corporate communications and public affairs roles in Racal Electronics.
Chairman of Gartmore Investment Management until November 2001 and has During this time, he was closely involved with the early growth of Vodafone leading previously held directorships at National Westminster Bank, Coutts & Co. the to its demerger from Racal and the formation of Camelot Group, operator of the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Lloyds Market Board, National Lottery, in which Racal was a major shareholder.
He started his career in Celltech Group, the Scottish National Trust, Powergen and Orange.
the Royal Navy where he served from 1978 to 1986.
Key to membership of Board Committees: 17.
Sohail Qadri 43 Group Director Strategy & Performance Management 1 2 3 Audit Committee Chairmans Committee Executive Committee Sohail Qadri joined the Company from BT where he had worked since 1993 initially 4 5 Nomination and Governance Committee Remuneration Committee as Director of Operations and Strategy for BT Cellnet, from 1997 as Director of All of the non-executive Directors are considered independent of the management Mobility, Group Strategy and Development, and from 2000, as President, Strategy of the Company.
and Business Development of BT Wireless.
Before joining BT, he was a Principal Consultant at Coopers & Lybrand, now .
Company Secretary and General Counsel 18.
Kent Thexton 41 Chief Data and Marketing Officer Kent Thexton joined the Company from BT where he had worked since 1998 as 13.
Philip Bramwell 47 Marketing Director of BT Cellnet before becoming Managing Director of O Online 2 Philip Bramwell joined the Company from BT, where he was employed since 1998, previously called Genie in 2000.
He was appointed Chief Data and Marketing initially as Legal Manager, Group Strategy and Development and then as Chief Officer for the Company in July 2001.
Before joining BT Cellnet, he spent eight Counsel, Corporate Development.
Before joining BT, he was a partner in DDV, a years in the Canadian mobile industry, holding the position of Chief Operating European specialist telecommunications consultancy firm.
Prior to this, he held the Officer and Executive Vice President of Rogers Cantel now Rogers Wireless.
Prior position of Vice President and General Counsel at BellSouth Europe and Secretary to this he held management positions at Northern Telecom and Bell Canada.
and Legal Advisor at SmithKlineBeecham Pharmaceuticals international division.
He is also a non-executive Director of two private Canadian companies, Audience He was called to the Bar in 1983.
Mr Thexton, who was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003, resigned as a Director of the Company on 4 February 2004 but remained on the Executive Committee until 31 March 2004, when he left the Company.
David Williams 46 Chief Technology Officer mmO s Executive Committee comprises Messrs. Erskine Chairman, Finch, Grger, David Williams joined the Company in 2003 from Cingular Wireless, where he 2 and McGlade and the following senior executives including Kent Thexton up to was Vice President for Strategic Planning.
Prior to the merger of SBC Wireless and 31 March 2004 : BellSouth Cellular in the US to form Cingular, he ran all technological operations for SBC Wireless west region.
He joined SBC Wireless following the acquisition of 14.
Danuta Gray 45 CEO O Ireland Pacific Bell Mobile Services by that company and was instrumental in integrating 2 Danuta Gray joined the Company from BT, where she was employed since 1984. the two networks.
After working for both Orange and Vodafone in the UK, he Before transferring to her present role in July 2001, Ms Gray was Senior Vice relocated to the US in 1996 to direct the build-out of one of the USs first digital President of BT Wirelesss businesses in Europe.
Prior to this, she was a General mobile networks for Pacific Bell.
Manager of BT Mobile, Leeds from 1994 to 1999, Sales Manager and Deputy General Manager of BT Global Communications from 1992 to 1994 and Account Director for BT Global Communications, Commercial Sector from 1990 to 1992.
She also worked in various departments as a manager and consultant for BT.
She is a board member of Business in the Community in Ireland.
com Summary directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their summary Substantial shareholdings At 10 May 2004, notifications, Directors report and financial statement for the year as set out below, had been received by the Company in ended 31 March 2004. respect of holdings of three per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital: This financial statement is a summary of the information in Number of Percentage of the Groups full annual report and financial statements mmO plc issued ordinary 2 Shareholder ordinary shares share capital Annual Report.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group FMR Corp. and Fidelity and the state of affairs of the Company or the Group as the International Limited 507,619,175 5.85 Annual Report.
Members can view the Annual Report on the Legal & General Investment Companys website www.
com or obtain a copy, Management Limited 304,856,559 3.51 free of charge, by contacting the registrar as detailed on page 21.
In addition, members can elect to receive the Corporate governance The Board supports high standards Annual Report in future years by writing to the registrar.
The application during the financial year of the principles in Section 1 of the Activity mmO plc is a leading provider of mobile Combined Code published by the Hampel Committee on 2 communications services in Europe.
The Group traded Corporate Governance in 1998 is described in the report on through its wholly-owned subsidiaries in the UK, Germany, corporate governance contained in the Annual Report.
The Ireland and the Isle of Man throughout the year, and in the Directors consider that the Company has fully complied Netherlands until 3 June 2003.
The Group also provides a with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 1998 nationwide mobile radio service designed to serve the Combined Code, except for the service contract in respect needs of the police and other public safety organisations of Rudolf Grger, which is for a fixed term ending on in England, Wales and Scotland through O Airwave.
On 31 October 2005 in recognition of local market practice, but 2 3 June 2003, mmO plc announced completion of the sale will convert to a one-year rolling contract after the end of 2 of O Netherlands B. V. to Greenfield Capital Partners, this initial period.
Additionally, in the event of termination 2 an independent private equity and corporate finance of Mr Grgers employment within 12 months of a change group, for 25 million in cash.
On 4 June 2003, mmO plc of control of mmO plc or its German business, the employer 2 2 announced the creation of a new 50:50 joint venture, Tesco is obliged to make a cash payment equal to two times his Mobile, to sell exclusively Tesco branded mobile services base salary and bonus.
The amount of bonus payable will in Tesco stores across the UK using O s technology and be that expected for an on-target performance.
The Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers bonus is equal to 80 per cent of base salary.
welcome statement on the inside front cover to page 3 and the business review on pages 8 to 11 contain a review In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council issued a of the businesses of the Group during the year and an revised Code on Corporate Governance the revised indication of future developments, and form part of this Combined Code which is effective for reporting years report.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Board a dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004. has reviewed the Companys corporate governance arrangements in the light of the revised Combined Directors The names and biographical details of Directors Code, as reflected below and in the report on corporate are given on pages 12 and 13.
All Directors served governance in the Annual Report.
throughout the financial year, except for Kent Thexton who resigned from the Board on 4 February 2004 but The Board as a whole is collectively responsible for the remained a member of the Executive Committee until success of the Company and provides entrepreneurial he left the Company on 31 March 2004. leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and The Companys Articles of Association provide that managed.
It sets out the Companys values and standards Directors are required to retire by rotation every three and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and years.
David Finch, Stephen Hodge and Andrew Sukawaty other stakeholders are understood and met.
will retire by rotation this year and are proposed for reelection at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
As previously Board Committees The Board has delegated authority to announced, David Varney will be retiring from the Board at the Committees described below on specific matters.
The the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General Meeting, in Committees have formal terms of reference.
Minutes of accordance with his letter of appointment, and is not meetings are formally recorded.
David Arculus will become Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Chairmans Committee The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and and Nomination and Governance Committee from Governance, and Remuneration Committees were that time.
amended during the year in the light of recommendations 14 C11607 mmO2 AnnRev 14-15. qxd 2 6 04 15:06 Page 15 mmo2.
com 15 in Sir Derek Higgs review of the role and effectiveness of all executive Directors, the Company Secretary and General non-executive Directors and Sir Robert Smiths report on Counsel, and members of the Executive Committee, and for the role of audit committees.
These terms of reference are determining, within agreed terms of reference, specific posted on the Companys website and are available, on remuneration packages for each of these, including any request, from the Company Secretary and General Counsel.
pension rights, any compensation payments and the As part of the review, the Nomination Committee was implementation of executive incentive schemes.
A summary renamed the Nomination and Governance Committee.
report on directors remuneration is set out on pages 16 and 17.
The full report on directors remuneration is The membership of the Committees is shown alongside published in the Annual Report.
the biographical details of the Directors on pages 12 and 13.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board and The Executive Committee, chaired by Peter Erskine, and principal Board Committee meetings held during the year comprising the other executive Directors and his senior ended 31 March 2004 are contained in the report on executive team, is responsible for the executive day-to-day corporate governance in the Annual Report.
The Board running of the Company, the preparation and reviews the membership of the Committees on an annual maintenance of strategic plans for the Group, and basis at the start of each financial year or more frequently monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as circumstances require.
During the year, the Board disbanded the Finance US corporate governance compliance mmO plc American 2 Committee and delegated its responsibilities for reviewing Depositary Shares are traded on the New York Stock and approving financing and investment decisions to the Exchange NYSE.
The Company is required to comply Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer and with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 other specified senior managers.
implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission as applicable to foreign issuers.
Under the NYSE rules, The Chairmans Committee, chaired by David Varney, listed foreign issuers must disclose any significant ways in advises and assists the Chairman in the preparation for which their corporate governance practices differ from Board meetings.
It also acts on behalf of the Board those under the NYSE listing standards.
There are no between scheduled Board meetings, in exceptional significant differences in the corporate governance circumstances, where it is not possible or practicable practices followed by mmO plc as compared to the NYSE 2 to convene a meeting of the Board.
listing standards, except that mmO plc follows the 2 recommendations in the revised Combined Code with The Audit Committee, chaired by Stephen Hodge, reviews respect to the membership of its Nomination and the effectiveness of internal controls, matters raised by the Governance Committee which permits membership of this internal and external auditors in their regular reports to Committee to be composed of a majority of independent the Committee and the full and half-year financial non-executive Directors.
The NYSE listing standards require statements prior to their release.
The Committee reviews that the Nomination Committee be composed entirely of the programme and effectiveness of risk management independent Directors.
within the Group as well as ensuring that an appropriate relationship between mmO plc and the external auditors Internal control The Board is responsible for the 2 is maintained.
The Committee also approves the maintenance of the Groups system of internal control appointment or dismissal of the Head of Internal Audit and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It has established an and reviews the procedures for handling complaints from ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing whistleblowers.
A report on the activities of the Committee key risks.
There is a formal six-monthly review of key risks during the year is contained in the report on corporate by the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and the governance in the Annual Report.
The Audit Committee undertakes a six-monthly review of reports submitted by senior executives on The Nomination and Governance Committee, chaired by internal controls, risk management and reports from David Varney, is responsible for reviewing the structure, Internal Audit.
These procedures are designed to identify size and composition of the Board and for recommending and manage those risks that could adversely impact the candidates for Board membership for the approval of the achievement of the Groups objectives.
The process leading to the selection of the new provide total assurance against material misstatement or Chairman was conducted by an ad-hoc committee of loss, the Directors, following a review of the systems independent Directors headed by the Deputy Chairman described, are of the opinion that a proper system of and advised by an independent executive search agency.
internal control is in place within the Group.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Andrew The Company has a Disclosure Committee which considers Sukawaty, is responsible for determining the framework the materiality of information and the respective disclosure and broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, obligations in releases made to regulatory bodies.
com Summary directors remuneration report This summary of the report on directors remuneration Other than in exceptional circumstances, executives has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the will only be made an award under one element in Committee.
Further details on all aspects of this summary any one year.
In the year ended 31 March 2004, only are provided in the full report, found in the Annual the performance share element of the Portfolio Report and Financial Statements 2004. was operated.
Remuneration policy The overriding objective of the Proposed long-term incentive arrangements Subject to remuneration policy is to motivate and retain the high obtaining shareholder approval, the Committee is calibre of executives required to build the success of the proposing to introduce a Deferred Equity Incentive Plan Group.
In addition, the Committee considers it vital to DEIP, as the primary form of long-term incentive for the align the interests of the leadership team with those of executive Directors, the Company Secretary and General shareholders, by linking a significant proportion of the Counsel, and the Executive Committee members for the package to the creation of shareholder value.
If approved, the DEIP will form part of the Portfolio of long-term incentives.
The The remuneration policy is based on the following Notice of Annual General Meeting provides more principles: information on the DEIP.
the Committee sets base salaries based on each executives contribution and criticality to the business.
The Performance Share Plan will continue to operate Decisions are made with reference to the median of the as the primary form of long-term incentive for senior relevant market, executive wage levels in other companies management below the DEIP participation level, for and to general wage levels elsewhere in the Group: the year ending 31 March 2005.
Awards of shares will emphasis is placed on providing a total cash and total normally vest on the third anniversary of grant subject compensation package that has potential to be upper to continued employment with the Group and the Total quartile for high performance: and, Shareholder Return TSR performance of the Company performance-related remuneration aligns the interests relative to the TSR performance of the constituent of executive Directors with those of the shareholders companies of the FTSE E300 Telecoms Service Index through the imposition of stretching business over a fixed three-year period.
performance targets and share-based long-term incentives.
Performance graph The performance graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance against the Base salary Base salaries are reviewed but not necessarily FTSE 100 Index and the FTSE E300 Telecoms Service Index increased annually by the Committee.
Salary increases over the period from 19 November 2001, when the are made when the Committee believes that this would Company was first listed following its demerger from BT, result in a better reflection of past and future to 31 March 2004. contribution, level of responsibility, competitiveness Total shareholder return against the FTSE 100 Index and and criticality to the business.
FTSE E300 Telecoms Service Index Source: Thomson Financial Annual incentives The annual incentive arrangements Value for the coming year are unchanged from the year ended 120 31 March 2004.
Bonus as a percentage of salary payable 100 for the year ending 31 March 2005 for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer is 65 per cent of salary 80 for on-target performance and maximum is 100 per cent.
60 The other executive Directors each have an on-target and maximum bonus potential of 80 per cent and 120 per 40 cent of salary.
The key performance indicators include EBITDA, EBIT, cash flow, net service revenue, data ARPU 20 and customer satisfaction targets.
0 19 Nov 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 2001 2002 2003 2004 Long-term incentives The Committee believes it is important mmO FTSE 100 Index FTSE E300 Telecom to be able to adapt the incentive arrangements offered in 2 Service Index future years to support the Groups strategic objectives.
It achieves this through an appropriate and flexible portfolio Pensions Peter Erskine and Rudolf Grger are accruing of long-term incentives.
The mmO Executive Share retirement benefits under Defined Benefit Schemes.
David 2 Portfolio the Portfolio currently comprises three elements: Finch is accruing benefits under both a Defined Benefit performance shares: and a Defined Contribution Scheme.
For the year ended share options: and 31 March 2004, in respect of David Finch, 83,125 was restricted shares.
paid to a defined contribution Funded Unapproved 16 C11607 mmO2 AnnRev 16-17. qxd 2 6 04 15:07 Page 17 mmo2.
com 17 Retirement Benefit Scheme and 45,521 was paid as a required by the Company to terminate this agreement is cash supplement.
During 2003 04, David McGlade and 12 months.
David Arculus has agreed to invest 15 per cent Kent Thexton received a cash allowance of 20 per cent of his after-tax fee in the Companys shares, to be basic salary in lieu of pension benefits.
The cash retained until his retirement as Chairman.
In addition to allowance for David McGlade will increase to 30 per cent the above, the Company is proposing to make a one-time of basic salary with effect from 1 June 2004.
David Varney award of restricted shares with a market value on grant does not participate in any mmO pension arrangements.
of 300,000 shortly after David Arculus takes over the 2 duties of Chairman.
Further details are provided in the Contracts and notice periods The notice period required full report.
by the Company to terminate service agreements is 12 months.
The Company may in its discretion terminate Rudolf Grger, David McGlade and Kent Thexton were without notice and make a payment in lieu of notice appointed to the Board on 1 April 2003.
Having overseen equal to the sum of 12 months pay including the value the restructuring of O Online, Products O and Group 2 2 of employers pension contributions, benefits, and a bonus central functions initiated in October 2003, Kent Thexton payment of not less than the previous years bonus.
In resigned from the Board on 4 February 2004 and left recognition of local market practice in Germany, the employment on 31 March 2004.
Further details can be contract for the CEO O Germany is initially for a fixed term found in the footnote to the table below and in the 2 ending on 31 October 2005, but will convert to a one-year full report.
rolling contract after the end of this initial period.
Non-executive Directors remuneration Following the Changes to the Board David Varney will retire as Higgs Report, the non-executive Directors have entered Chairman at the conclusion of the 2004 Annual General into revised letters of appointment with mmO covering 2 Meeting AGM on 28 July 2004.
David Arculus, who amongst other items, their terms of appointment and currently serves as a non-executive Director of the expected time commitment together with a general Company, has agreed to serve as Chairman with effect statement of their role and duties.
Non-executive from the conclusion of the AGM under an agreement Directors are appointed initially for three years unless dated 4 May 2004.
His time commitment is anticipated to otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of be an average of two days per week.
David Arculus will either party upon one months written notice.
The nonbe entitled to an annual fee of 325,000 as Chairman, of executive Directors do not participate in any of mmO s 2 which 25,000 will, at his request, be paid into his pension or incentive arrangements.
2 Gain on vesting of Restricted Share Award.
201,535 shares vested on 23 November 2003 at 72.8p being the market value of a share at that date.
3 Rudolf Grgers remuneration has been converted from Euro to Sterling at an exchange rate of 1 0.6943.
5 In addition to the benefits listed above, David McGlade received benefits relating to the buy-out of his expatriate accommodation allowance.
Resigned from the Board on 4 February 2004 and left employment on 31 March 2004.
In relation to the period from 4 February 2004 to 31 March 2004, Kent Thexton received salary and benefits of 50,492 and 4,929 respectively under his existing contract.
With effect from 1 April 2004, the Company entered into a consultancy agreement with Kent Thexton for 16 months, to have available his expert input regarding mobile data services.
Over the 16 months, Kent Thexton will receive fees of 166,668.
His time commitment is expected to be on average one to two days per calendar month.
No termination payment has been made or will be made, but during the consultancy period the Company will meet the cost of his personal tax and financial planning fees up to a value of 5,000.
7 In addition to the benefits listed above, Kent Thexton received benefits relating to the buy-out of his expatriate accommodation allowance.
8 Elected to receive 50 per cent of Directors fees after tax in shares.
9 Elected to receive 75 per cent of Directors fees after tax in shares.
10 Elected to receive 100 per cent of Directors fees after tax in shares.
com Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is an important part of how we important social challenges and we recognise these too.
We are committed to behaving Adult content and ethical sourcing are some of the priority responsibly and to taking full account of the social, areas we are currently addressing.
environmental and ethical impact of our business.
Our aim is to offer excellent mobile services to our customers, to Health There are public concerns about the safety of provide lasting value for our shareholders, to consider the handsets and other portable equipment and worries about views and interests of the communities we serve, and to the location of communication masts.
We are working openly strive to find ways to put the benefits of our technology to comply with best-practice guidelines on the responsible back into society wherever we can.
Our approach is to consult directly and openly with communities.
Dedicated community relations We believe we have made good progress in strengthening our managers are employed to talk to and encourage open approach to corporate responsibility during the year.
But we interaction with local communities.
In the UK, a helpline has recognise there is still much to do.
To achieve and continually been set up to handle public enquiries about mast location develop best practice, we intend to keep our approach and or health-related issues.
Although research has found no performance under constant review and scrutiny.
evidence of health risks from mobile technology, we are aware of public concerns and are continuing to fund Details about mmO s approach to corporate responsibility independent and peer-reviewed research in this area.
2 can be found in our independently verified Corporate Responsibility report, available from July 2004 online at: Environment and sustainability We are committed to www.
com cr, or, on request, from the Company minimising any negative impact that we have on the Secretary and General Counsel.
environment and to contribute positively to sustainable development.
We have set targets for each area of potential External recognition The investment community has environmental impact, which will be described in detail in recognised our achievements in corporate responsibility and our 2004 Corporate Responsibility report.
Since 2002 03, our we are represented in some of the main sustainability indices main achievements have been to establish an environmental and funds.
These include the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes procurement policy and to increase the uptake of renewable where mmO is at the top of the wireless communications energy in line with our target of 10 per cent by 2008.
We 2 sector the FTSE4Good index and the Business in the exceeded our current target for recovering mobile phones for Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
mmO is also a re-use and recycling by 300 per cent and the scheme has now 2 member of the Ethibel investment and sustainability registers.
been extended to include corporate customers.
By December 2004 we aim to have our complete operations registered to Management of corporate responsibility risks Social, the international environmental standard ISO 14001. environmental and ethical issues are integral to all aspects of our business and are included in our risk management Workplace The United Nations Universal Declaration of procedures.
These aspects are taken into account in Human Rights and International Labour Organisation determining the remuneration of senior employees, including Declarations guide our employment policy.
This has been an important step in encouraging well-being of all our employees is a prime concern for us, good ethical conduct in all our dealings and in providing a hence the majority of our business is certified to the framework for managing, measuring and accounting for the internationally recognised health and safety system OHSAS impact of our business.
We have also embarked on initiatives to provide a focus for ensuring that we offer real equality of opportunity Our corporate responsibility programme is co-ordinated by a for our people and potential employees.
In the UK, we dedicated team of trained practitioners.
To give direction and achieved Bronze standard in the Race for Opportunity leadership to our policies and to monitor performance, we benchmarking exercise and Gold standard through the have established regular reporting on corporate responsibility Opportunity Now benchmark.
We also restated our issues to our Executive Committee and to the Board.
commitment to the Two Ticks scheme for the employment of disabled people.
Our continuous relationships with our trade Our environmental and health and safety practices are unions, works councils and representative bodies are monitored through third party audits carried out by important for developing our workplace further.
certification agencies and through the operational risk reviews that underpin our insurance arrangements.
Internal Community Investment in the communities we serve is an auditors, reporting to the Audit Committee, regularly review essential part of our approach to corporate responsibility.
Our assurance providers, Ernst & Young, Our Can Do in the Community programme was set up verify our annual Corporate Responsibility report.
with the aim of using our resources notably our mobile technology to benefit local communities in the UK, Ireland, Marketplace We believe that mobile telephony carries Germany, and the Isle of Man.
In 2003 04, we made cash clear social benefits.
New and developing services are donations of 427,000 including 192,000 from UK-based transforming many of the ways in which we live and interact, Group companies direct to our chosen charities and at work and at home.
But the technology also poses some community organisations.
Additionally, we have made in-kind contributions, which included participation by our employees.
com 19 Summary group profit and loss account Year ended 31 March 2004 2004 2003 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued 2 2 operations operation Total operations operation Total m m m m m m Group turnover 5,646 48 5,694 4,611 263 4,874 1 EBITDA before exceptional items 1,367 1,367 858 1 859 Group operating profit loss before exceptional items 234 1 233 358 120 478 Exceptional items 75 75 8,300 8,300 Group operating profit loss 159 1 158 8,658 120 8,778 Group share of operating result of joint ventures and associates 5 Loss provision for loss on sale of business discontinued operation 5 1,364 Net interest payable and similar charges 58 66 Profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 95 10,203 Tax on profit loss on ordinary activities 71 55 Retained profit loss for the financial year 166 10,148 2004 2003 000 000 3 Directors emoluments 5,465 2,512 pence pence Basic and diluted earnings loss per share 1.9 117.0 1 EBITDA is our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items, excluding our share of operating results of our joint ventures and associates.
2 Discontinued operation comprises the results of O Netherlands which was sold on 3 June 2003.
2 3 Includes payments to non-executive Directors.
Summary group balance sheet As at 31 March 2004 2004 2003 m m Intangible assets 7,354 7,582 Tangible assets 3,996 3,875 Investments 5 3 Fixed assets 11,355 11,460 Current assets 2,043 1,913 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,681 1,572 Net current assets 362 341 Total assets less current liabilities 11,717 11,801 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 1,375 1,451 Provisions for liabilities and charges 251 284 Net assets 10,091 10,066 Shareholders funds 10,091 10,066 Summary group net debt As at 31 March 2004 2004 2003 m m Cash and current asset investments 1,016 916 Euro medium-term notes 1,012 1,015 Loan notes 8 19 Obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts and other borrowings 362 431 Net debt 366 549 This summary financial statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2004 and was signed on its behalf by: Peter Erskine David Finch Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 19 C11607 mmO2 AnnRev 19-20. qxd 2 6 04 15:08 Page 20 20 mmo2.
com Summary supplementary information for United States investors Year ended 31 March 2004 Reconciliation of net profit loss and shareholders funds under UK GAAP to US GAAP Year ended 31 March 2004 2003 Net profit loss m m Net profit loss under UK GAAP 166 10,148 Adjustment for: Capitalisation of interest, net of related depreciation 77 67 Goodwill and licence impairment 6,381 Amortisation of goodwill, software and other intangible assets 164 337 Fixed asset impairment on discontinued operation 25 Employee stock compensation 26 1 Deferred tax on US GAAP adjustments 56 176 1 Other adjustments 9 28 Net profit loss as adjusted for US GAAP 180 3,671 Net profit loss as adjusted for US GAAP comprises: Continuing operations 192 2,195 Discontinued operations 12 1,476 Net earnings loss per share as adjusted for US GAAP pence 2.1 42.3 1 Comprises adjustments for restructuring costs, the loss on disposal of O Netherlands, the fair value of derivative financial instruments, long-term licence creditors and an accumulative 2 adjustment of 4 million and a current year adjustment of 4 million on the adoption of SFAS No.
143 Accounting for asset retirement obligations.
At 31 March 2004 2003 Shareholders funds m m Shareholders' funds under UK GAAP 10,091 10,066 Adjustments for: Capitalisation of interest, net of related depreciation 804 912 Goodwill and licence impairment 6,334 6,334 Amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets 233 69 Fixed asset impairment on discontinued operation 25 Employee stock compensation 30 4 Pension liability 40 38 Deferred tax on US GAAP adjustments 334 278 2 Other adjustments 118 9 Shareholders' funds as adjusted for US GAAP 16,940 17,045 2 Comprises adjustments for other employee compensation expense, restructuring costs, treasury stock, the fair value of derivative financial instruments, long-term licence creditors, foreign exchange and accumulative and current year adjustments on the adoption of SFAS No.
Independent auditors statement to the members of mmO plc 2 Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin We have examined the summary financial statement of mmO plc.
2 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the annual financial statements, the directors report and the our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the Annual Review with the annual financial statements, the report on directors remuneration of mmO plc for the year ended 31 2 March 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section directors report and the report on directors remuneration, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made  LLP thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we London become aware of any apparent misstatements or material 17 May 2004 inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only The financial information contained in the summary financial statement for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 on page 19 does not constitute the Groups statutory accounts for of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in the years ended 31 March 2004 or 31 March 2003.
The financial giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other information is derived from the statutory accounts which were approved purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or by the Board of Directors on 17 May 2004.
The auditors have reported into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our on those accounts: their report was unqualified and did not contain a prior consent in writing.
statement under sections 237 2 or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
The 2004 statutory accounts will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies following the Companys Annual General Meeting.
com 21 Additional information for shareholders Listings Online communication The ordinary shares of the Company were listed on the London Stock Many shareholders prefer to receive their reports online rather than Exchange on 19 November 2001.
On the same date ADSs were also through the post, and thanks to changes in the law this is now possible.
listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The ratio of ADSs to ordinary Shareview, which is operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives mmO 2 shares is 1:10.
The ADSs have been issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank shareholders access to special services over the internet.
You will be as Depositary for the ADSs.
able to check the details of your mmO shareholding at any time.
As a 2 Financial calendar results announcements Shareview user you will be able to view indicative prices of shares of Annual General Meeting 28 July 2004 other companies of which you are a shareholder and who use Lloyds TSB Registrars as their Registrar.
Proposed dates Q1 Trading Statement July 2004 We will also e-mail you when there is an item for you to view on the Interim Results November 2004 shareholder pages on www.
Q3 Trading Statement February 2005 Registering with Shareview is easy and free.
Go to Shareview at Preliminary Announcement May 2005 www.
co. uk click on register now, and complete the Publication of the Annual Report and on-screen application form.
Financial Statements and Form 20-F June 2005 Contacts ShareGift Shareholder enquiries The Orr Mackintosh Foundation ShareGift operates a charity share Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the Companys share register and donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose provide a shareholder helpline service details below.
Shareholders value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are should contact the Registrar if they have any enquiries about their available on the ShareGift internet site www.
Cassettes for visually impaired shareholders The Registrar The Companys Annual Review is available on audio cassette.
Copies Lloyds TSB Registrars 2501 mmO plc shareholder helpline: 2 can be obtained free of charge from the Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway Freefone 0808 100 4102 by calling Freefone 0808 100 4102.
Worthing Fax: 01903 833371 Annual Report and Financial Statements West Sussex BN99 6DA From outside the UK: Copies of our Annual Report and Financial Statements can be obtained Tel: 44 121 415 7102 free of charge by contacting our Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, on Fax: 44 1903 833371 Freefone 0808 100 4102.
ADR Depositary Annual General Meeting JPMorgan Chase Bank Toll-free from within the USA: The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Hexagon, Queens ADR Service Center Tel: 1 800 428 4237 Walk, Reading, Berkshire RG1 7UA on Wednesday, 28 July 2004 at PO Box 43013 From outside the USA: 11.00 a. m. Providence, RI 02940-3013 Tel: 1 781 575 4328 USA Duplicate mailings You may have received separate sets of documents as it may not have General enquiries been possible to combine your records.
Any shareholder who now mmO plc 2 wishes to stop the additional mailings by combining their records should Wellington Street contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
com Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements similar expressions often identify forward-looking statements but are This document contains certain forward-looking statements.
We may not the only ways we identify these statements.
also make written or oral forward-looking statements in: These statements may be found in this document generally.
Our actual our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forwardalso known as the SEC, on Forms 20-F and 6-K: looking statements as a result of various factors, including all the risks our annual report and financial statements and half-yearly reports: discussed in the above-mentioned reports, releases and statements.
our press releases and other written materials: and If any one or more of the foregoing assumptions are ultimately oral statements made by our officers, directors or employees to incorrect, our actual results may differ from our expectations based on third parties.
Also, the sector and markets in which we operate We have based these forward-looking statements on our current plans, may not grow over the next several years as expected, or at all.
The expectations and projections about future events.
These forwardfailure of these markets to grow as expected may have a material looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition about us.
Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they and the market price of our ordinary shares and ADSs.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements The information on our website, any website mentioned in this about our beliefs and expectations are forward-looking statements.
document or any website directly or indirectly linked to our or any Words like believe, anticipate, expect, intend, seek, will, other website mentioned in this document is not incorporated by plan, could, may, might, project, goal, target and reference into this document and you should not rely on it.
4190833 The paper used to produce this review is made from Elemental Chlorine Free Pulps sourced from fully sustainable forests.
Designed and produced by Pauffley Ltd Printed in England by St Ives Burrups Limited.
