Accounting policies: Basis of preparation The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain land and buildings, and comply with all applicable accounting standards.
The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Groups accounts.
The accounts adopt Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benefits in line with the transitional timetable laid down by the Standard.
The Group has complied with UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
This has resulted in the reclassification of shares held in employee trusts from investments to shareholders funds and has been accounted for as a prior year adjustment as described in note 24.
The Group has adopted UITF 17 Revised Employee share schemes.
The fair value of awards of shares granted under the long-term incentive plan LTIP, which equates to the market value of the shares at grant date, is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period to which the performance criteria relate.
The balance sheets for the current year and the comparative year have been drawn up as at 4 January 2005 and 4 January 2004 respectively.
The profit and loss, cash flow and total recognised gains and losses statements are for the years ended 4 January 2005 and 4 January 2004.
For convenience these periods and balance sheet dates are referred to in the body of the accounts as 2004 and 2003 respectively.
Basis of consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 4 January 2005.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired in the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition.
Results of material businesses discontinued or sold are included in the results for the year up to the date of relinquishing control and analysed as discontinued operations: the comparatives are restated to reflect those businesses as discontinued.
The surplus or deficit over the net asset value and the write-off of goodwill is shown as an exceptional item.
Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
Goodwill Purchased goodwill both positive and negative arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions before 4 January 1998, when FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
There is a corresponding credit to reserves for any goodwill which had already been written off to reserves on acquisition.
Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given and associated costs over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 4 January 1998 is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful life, normally 20 years.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business acquired since 4 January 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging crediting the unamortised amount of any related positive goodwill negative goodwill.
In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings, associates and joint ventures are stated at cost less any impairment in value.
Goodwill arising on shares of associated undertakings and joint ventures acquired up to 4 January 1998 have been written off to reserves.
Goodwill arising on subsequent acquisitions is capitalised.
Foreign currencies The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated using average exchange rates for the year.
The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings at the balance sheet date are translated at year end rates of exchange.
All exchange differences arising on consolidation have been dealt with through reserves.
Gains and losses on the disposal of businesses are calculated using exchange rates applicable on the date that the transaction took place.
Exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings taken out to hedge against foreign currency assets have been dealt with through reserves, to the extent permitted by SSAP 20 Foreign Currency Translation.
Turnover Turnover represents the invoiced value of sales by Morgan companies to third parties, exclusive of sales taxes, less returns and allowances given in the normal course of trade.
Depreciation Depreciation and amortisation are provided to write off the costs less the estimated residual value of assets by equal annual instalments over the expected useful lives of fixed assets.
The principal useful lives used for depreciation are: Buildings 50 years Plant Presses, Kilns and Furnaces 10 20 years Other 10 years Fixtures 10 20 years Computer Software 3 10 years Motor Vehicles 3 years Purchased Goodwill 20 years 32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Government grants Government grants for capital expenditure are credited to a deferred income account and are released to revenue over the expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal annual instalments.
Grants of a revenue nature are credited to income in the period to which they relate.
Employee share schemes The intrinsic value of shares granted under the LTIP, which equates to the market value of the shares at the grant date, is charged to the profit and loss account over the period to which the performance criteria relate.
Shares held in employee trusts have been reclassified from investments and deducted from shareholders funds on adoption of UITF Abstract 38.
Any gains or losses arising on the sale of shares held are included as an adjustment to reserves.
There is no charge to the profit and loss account in respect of share option schemes as there is no difference between the intrinsic value and market value of shares at the grant date.
No cost is recognised in respect of SAYE schemes that are offered on similar terms to all, or substantially all, employees.
Fixed assets Following the introduction of FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets the transitional provisions for revalued land and buildings were adopted.
The relevant properties will be carried at the revalued amount and no further revaluations will take place.
Additional information can be found in note 13 on page 45.
Leasing and hire purchase agreements Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase contracts are capitalised in the balance sheet and are depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital elements of future obligations under the leases and hire purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the rental obligations are charged in the profit and loss account over the periods of the leases and hire purchase contracts and represent a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Stocks Stocks and work in progress have been valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For this purpose cost means direct cost and direct expenses including applicable overheads less provisions for obsolescence and for inter-company profit on unsold stocks.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Pensions Contributions are made to the UK pension schemes in accordance with actuarial advice and are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the pension cost over the anticipated period of service of the pension scheme members.
The actuarial deficits on the UK schemes are being spread over the expected remaining service lives of current employees.
Overseas schemes have been accounted for in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs or local best practice.
Where the local best practice is followed, the resulting charge is not materially different from the charge which would arise under SSAP 24.
Post retirement medical care costs are accounted for on an accruals basis with the estimated actuarial liability being amortised over the average life of the relevant employees.
Derivative instruments The Group uses derivative instruments from time to time in order to hedge exposure to changes in interest rates and exchange rates.
The receipts and payments on interest rate derivatives are recognised over the lifetime of the relevant instrument.
Forward foreign exchange contracts are used to give certainty to the value of future foreign currency flows or to the value of foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The positions covered by such contracts are translated at the contracted rate of exchange.
Cash and liquid resources Cash, for the purpose of the cash flow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts payable on demand.
Liquid resources are current asset investments which are disposable without curtailing or disrupting the business and are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at or close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year other than cash.
33 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Accounting policies
