Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of NEXT plc will be held at One Great George Street, Westminster, London, SW1P 3AA on Thursday 13 May 2004 at 11.00 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 7 as Ordinary Resolutions and 8 to 9 as Special Resolutions.
Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the period ended 31 January 2004.
2 To approve the remuneration report for the year ended 31 January 2004.
3 To declare a final dividend of 24p per share in respect of the period ended 31 January 2004.
4 To elect Nick Brookes as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
5 To re-elect David Keens as a director who retires by rotation according to Article 91.
6 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Biographies of directors seeking re-election are shown on page 9 of the Annual Report.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolution 7 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and resolutions 8 and 9 as Special Resolutions.
Resolutions 7 and 8 have been proposed to accommodate the purchase and sale of treasury shares following recent changes in company law.
7 That the directors be and they are hereby authorised to alter the rules of any of the Companys employee share option schemes to permit options to be granted over treasury shares in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, provided that such use of treasury shares shall count towards the limits governing the issues of new shares in the rules of the relevant schemes.
8 That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, in substitution for any existing authority to allot relevant securities, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by resolutions 14 and 15 passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 13 May 2003 for cash and sell relevant shares as defined in Section 94 of the Act held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in Section 162A of the Act for cash, as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem fit to deal with fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,300,000 being less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at 23 March 2004 and shall expire on 13 May 2008 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
51 Notice of Meeting 9 That in accordance with Article 46 of the Articles of Association of the Company and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares provided that the authority conferred by this resolution shall: i be limited to the lesser of 39,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting: ii the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount not more than 5 per cent over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire on whichever is the earlier of: a 18 months after the date on which this resolution is passed, and b the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2005: v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
A J R McKinlay, Secretary Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby Leicester, LE19 4AT 13 April 2004 Attendance and voting All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Members who are entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him, and a proxy need not also be a member.
A proxy may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please sign and return it so as to reach the Companys registrar at least 48 hours before the meeting.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 1am on 12 May 2004 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 1am on 12 May 2004 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2004 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
"In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo's specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual."
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Directors service contracts Copies of directors contracts of service are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during the usual business hours and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
52 Shareholder Information Company website Shareholder enquiries A full copy of this Annual Report and Accounts, together with The Companys share register is maintained by Lloyds TSB that for prior years and other information, can be found on the Registrars.
Please contact them if you have any enquiries about NEXT plc website at www.
co. uk your NEXT plc shareholding including the following matters: Financial diary change of name or address The recommended final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 1 July 2004 to holders of ordinary shares registered onloss of share certificate, dividend warrant or tax voucher 28 May 2004.
The ordinary shares will trade ex-dividend from 26 May 2004. if you receive duplicate sets of company mailings as a result of an inconsistency in name or address and wish, if The trading results of the Group are normally announced as appropriate, to combine accounts.
follows: The Shareview Portfolio service from our registrar, Lloyds TSB Interim results September Registrars, gives you more online information about your NEXT Final results March plc shares and other investments.
Annual General Meeting For direct access to information held for you on the share The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 a. m. on register including recent balance movements and a daily Thursday 13 May 2004 at One Great George Street, valuation of investments held in your portfolio visit Westminster, London, SW1P 3AA.
The notice of the meeting on www.
co. uk pages 51 and 52 sets out business to be transacted.
Please detach the attendance card from the form of proxy and bring it For shareholders with disabilities Lloyds TSB Registrars provide to the meeting.
Presentation of this card will show that you the following: have the right to attend, speak and vote.
Full access is available to the venue for those with special requirements.
If requested future communications produced by them will be sent in the appropriate format.
Proxy card The proxy card is enclosed for you to detach, complete and sendTextphone number 0870 600 3950 for shareholders with to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
It must be received by 11.00 a. m. on hearing difficulties.
Hearing loop facilities in their buildings for use by visiting Share price data shareholders.
2004 2003 Payments of dividends to mandated accounts Share price at 31 January 1292p 760p Shareholders who do not at present have their dividends paid Market capitalisation 3,425m 2,179m directly into a bank or building society may wish to do so.
A mandate form is attached to your dividend warrant and tax Share price movement during year: voucher or is available from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Low mid-market quotation 700p 717p Discount voucher The Company offers a discount voucher to any first named, Crest registered shareholder holding 500 or more ordinary shares as The Companys ordinary shares are available for electronic at 1 April each year.
The voucher entitles the recipient or their settlement.
immediate family to a 25% discount against most purchases at any one time of full price merchandise in NEXT Retail stores.
The Registrars and transfer office voucher has no monetary purchase limit and expires on Lloyds TSB Registrars 30 September of the same year.
Shareholders holding shares in The Causeway nominee or PEP ISA accounts are also eligible, but must request Worthing the voucher through their nominee or PEP ISA account West Sussex manager.
