Financial calendar Company information 2004 Registered office Final results announcement 2 June Beverley House Annual report and Annual review issued 18 June St Stephens Square, Latest date for receipt of forms of proxy 20 July Hull HU1 3XG Annual general meeting 22 July Telephone: 01482 325432 Shares quoted ex-dividend 28 July Facsimile: 01482 226136 Record date for final dividend 30 July Website: www.
co. uk Half-yearly interest payment on convertible subordinated bonds 8 August Registered in England and Wales Final dividend payment on ordinary shares 27 August No 471864 Interim results announcement November Auditors 2005 Deloitte & Touche LLP Half-yearly interest payment on convertible subordinated bonds 8 February Merchant bankers Interim dividend payment on ordinary shares March N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Financial year end 2 April Stockbrokers Cazenove & Co Ltd Hoare Govett Limited Registrar to the ordinary shareholders Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH Telephone: 0870 702 0134 Email: web.
com Principal paying and conversion agent and registrar to the convertible bond holders J P Morgan Chase Bank 1 Chaseside, Bournemouth BH7 7DA 52 Financial calendar, Company information Northern Foods plc Design and production:35 Cover photography: Carolyn Barber Print: St Ives Westerham Press www.
co. uk HEADLINES 3.5% Good sales growth: underlying retail sales up 3.5% 45.2m Continuing Grocery profit up to 45.2 million from 40.1 million 56.1m Continuing Convenience profit down to 56.1 million from 72.9 million Solway acquired: Foxs Confectionery, Batchelors, Emile Tissot and Eden Vale sold New Chief Executive appointed Major structural cost initiatives in progress The inherent New management structure announced strengths of and review of business under way Northern Foods Progressive dividend remain substantial and share buyback programme continue Peter Blackburn Underlying retail sales exclude the Chairman impact of currency, acquisitions, divestments and the 53rd week Analysed in the analysis of activities Northern Foods plc Headlines 07 We are movin g forward Over recent months we have started to put the business on a sounder footing, with a focus on core strengths and the start of a number of structural cost saving initiatives.
This has involved refocusing and restructuring our operations, and taking determined action throughout the group to reduce our cost base.
Chairmans statement Highlights of the year The purchase of the remaining 60 per cent of Solway Foods on 30 June 2003 further increased our exposure to rapidly growing chilled convenience food areas including sandwiches, prepared salad meals and pasta snacks.
The business has traded well and met all our expectations.
Highlights of the year The merger of our Foxs and Elkes biscuit businesses is delivering real commercial benefits as retailers gain an increased appreciation of our overall capabilities in the biscuit market.
The new structure also facilitates a single-minded focus on production efficiencies by our factory management team.
Highlights of the year We have begun to move functions such as procurement, finance and IT out of our individual operations and into a new, well-equipped and largely paperless shared service centre in Wakefield.
We expect this to yield significant benefits in improved efficiency and lower costs in the years ahead.
08 Chairmans statement Northern Foods plc gforward The reduction in our share capital through Although this has been a difficult and disappointing buybacks helped to mitigate the effect of the divestments and reduced operating profit.
year for Northern Foods, and we recognise that Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were 7.0 per cent lower much remains to be done, by the time our new than in the previous year at 13.77 pence Chief Executive joined us in March 2004, we had 2003: 14.81 pence.
Basic earnings per share were 12.78 pence 2003: 18.73 pence, a moved towards creating a more solid platform for reduction of 31.8 per cent, reflecting the profit on sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands her to develop.
Under her leadership, we look in the prior year.
forward to realising the undoubted potential that Exceptional items and goodwill amortisation lies in our excellent products, growing sales, strong There was a post-tax net exceptional charge of 1.4 million this year, compared with a customer relationships, well-invested assets and credit of 24.2 million in the prior year.
This comprised a net profit on the sale of businesses capable and committed people.
of 12.0 million 2003: 54.6 million and operating exceptional costs of 13.4 million Trading results All this was reflected in a 23.0 per cent 2003: 30.4 million relating to business reduction in Convenience continuing operating reorganisation.
Goodwill amortisation was We enjoyed good growth with most of our major customers during the year, with underlying profit before acquisitions, goodwill amortisation 3.7 million 2003: 3.1 million.
and exceptional items to 56.1 million retail sales, excluding the impact of currency, acquisitions, divestments and the 53rd week, 2003: 72.9 million.
Dividend and share buyback The board recommends an increased final increasing by 3.5 per cent.
After a dip in growth during the second quarter, as a result of the Our Grocery operations, in contrast, traded dividend of 5.60 pence per share 2003: well, increasing their continuing operating 5.45 pence.
Together with the increased exceptional summer weather, underlying retail sales recovered in the second half despite the profit contribution before goodwill amortisation interim dividend of 3.30 pence paid in March, and exceptional items by 12.7 per cent to this makes a total dividend for the year loss of a major savoury products contract.
Total sales from continuing operations rose by 10.4 45.2 million 2003: 40.1 million.
Our biscuit of 8.90 pence 2003: 8.70 pence, a rise of business recovered strongly, as expected, from 2.3 per cent.
This increase reflects the boards per cent to 1,426.0 million 2003: 1,291.5 million, including the Solway acquisition and the difficult trading conditions of the previous confidence in the operational and financial year, while Green Isle continued to grow its strengths of the group and our strong cash the benefit of a 53rd trading week: the latter boosted turnover by around two per cent.
share of the frozen pizza market and Dalepak generation, and continues our long-standing benefited from a good summer barbecue season.
commitment to a progressive dividend and Continuing operating profit before acquisitions, the creation of shareholder value.
Operating profit was 20.4 per cent higher than goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 17.7 million was 10.4 per cent lower at 101.3 the previous year at 85.0 million due to lower We have also continued to make market exceptional costs.
purchases of our shares, acquiring a total of million 2003: 113.0 million.
The principal factor in this reduction was the under-recovery 24.4 million shares during the year at a cost Following a 9.7 per cent increase in interest of 37.1 million.
Such purchases helped to of substantial raw material cost inflation, particularly in our chilled Convenience foods costs to 21.4 million 2003: 19.5 million mitigate the earnings dilution arising from as a result of our continuing share buyback our disposals.
We have now returned a total businesses.
However, steady progress was made in recouping these cost increases during the programme and the acquisition of Solway Foods of 143.6 million to shareholders since we in June 2003, pre-tax profit before goodwill began our share buyback programme in second half, so that we enter the new year much closer to full recovery.
The Convenience amortisation and exceptional items was 86.0 February 2000. million 2003: 97.5 million, a reduction of sector was also affected by the loss of a major savoury products contract with Sainsburys and 11.8 per cent.
Pre-tax profit was 28.7 per cent lower than in the previous year at 75.4 million by disruption to ordering and working patterns during the period of record temperatures.
Analysed in the analysis of activities Northern Foods plc Chairmans statement 09 increased appreciation of our overall capabilities in the biscuit market.
Procurement An experienced new executive with responsibility for group-wide procurement joined us in September 2003, and the development of a highly qualified central team is well advanced.
We are already seeing some benefits from the simplification and centralisation of purchasing in areas such as ingredients and packaging, but we expect substantial further gains to be realised over the coming years as we progressively move responsibility for procurement away from individual operations, and begin to realise the true potential of our scale as a 1.5 billion turnover food group.
Shared services We have also begun to move functions such as finance, administration and IT out of our individual operations and into a new, I am confident that we have begun to take well-equipped and largely paperless shared service centre in Wakefield.
We expect this to the right actions to equip Northern Foods yield significant benefits in improved efficiency to compete in this most demanding climate.
and lower costs in the years ahead.
I look forward to the increasing benefits to Addressing underperformance Underperforming areas of the group have Northern from the refocusing and restructuring received particularly close management attention.
Determined action at Park Cakes in initiatives already in hand, and to further Oldham has resulted in substantial efficiency developments under the leadership of our gains, turning the site from a loss in the first half to profit during the second half.
Capital expenditure We have reduced our investment programmes Acquisitions Disposals and these are now close to depreciation levels.
All expenditure is being carefully targeted to We made two acquisitions during the first half, We disposed of two non-core businesses as part of our drive to align Northern Foods during the year, realising a cash inflow on ensure that we invest only in core categories and where we are confident of achieving with faster growing segments of the UK food disposals of 50.9 million and generating a net market.
The purchase of the remaining profit on sale of 9.4 million.
60 per cent of Solway Foods on 30 June 2003 was sold to Big Bear Limited for 9.4 million on for 26.7 million, plus 7.2 million of inherited 5 September 2003: and our Batchelors and Beck Customer research During the second half we commissioned debt, further increased our exposure to rapidly Smith operations in Ireland were sold to a new growing chilled convenience food areas company, formed by Barrys Tea and Bank a major survey of our key customers by external consultants, investigating attitudes including sandwiches, prepared salad meals of Scotland, for 95.5 million including cash and pasta snacks.
This business has traded well balances of 33.2 million on 30 January 2004. to Northern Foods as a group at all levels in these organisations.
This has contributed to and met all our expectations.
The acquisition of San Marco from Heinz for 0.9 million on Since the year end, we have sold the an enhanced understanding of what the major retailers expect from us, and how we can 22 May 2003 has strengthened the portfolio Emile Tissot frozen foodservice business to of our Goodfellas frozen pizza business and Dawn Fresh Foods Limited for 3.5 million on further improve our relationships during the next stage of our development.
contributed to its continued success in the 1 May 2004: and the Eden Vale Minsterley fresh market place.
chilled dairy products business to Uniq Prepared All these actions were part of a very busy Foods Limited for 16.5 million on 22 May 2004.
Refocusing and restructuring second half during which we created a more stable business for our new Chief Executive to I assumed the role of Executive Chairman on Biscuit merger an interim basis on 4 September 2003, when The merger of our Foxs and Elkes biscuit take forward, though much remains to be done to realise the groups full potential.
we began the process of recruiting our new businesses, which was announced in September Chief Executive, and held this position through 2003, is on track to deliver targeted cost savings Taken together, our initiatives have already to the end of the financial year.
This was a of 2.0 million per annum from 2004 2005, at a period of considerable activity designed to one-off implementation cost of 2.1 million.
In delivered cost savings of approximately 3 million and are targeted to produce improve the business by refocusing on our core addition to direct cost savings, we believe that strengths, leveraging some of the advantages of the integration of the businesses is delivering annualised savings of some 15 million by our financial year to March 2006. our scale in the market place, re-engaging with real commercial benefits as retailers gain an our customers, addressing efficiencies and cutting costs.
10 Chairmans statement Northern Foods plc New operating structure On 2 June 2004 we announced the creation by Pat ODriscoll of a new operating board for Northern Foods.
We will in future report our results in three sectors: chilled, ambient and frozen.
Because of the size of our chilled operations, these will be managed as two businesses.
Each of our four new businesses two in chilled and one each in frozen and ambient will be headed by a member of the operating board, which will also include the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Company Secretary, together with new directors of human resources, manufacturing and risk management health and safety.
We have appointed a highly qualified candidate to the human resources position and he will join the group on 8 June 2004.
External recruitment for the manufacturing position is under way.
We are also undertaking a group-wide business review which will thoroughly evaluate the opportunities for Northern Foods.
Board changes I am delighted to welcome Pat ODriscoll to the group as our new Chief Executive.
A change Her appointment was announced shortly before Christmas and she joined the company and the board on 29 March 2004.
Pat was the outstanding candidate, identified by the in leadership: consultants who handled our external selection process, and brings to her new role broad experience of the food industry, having worked for several of the major UK retailers.
She has Pat ODriscoll also held senior management positions with extensive responsibilities, most recently as Retail Vice President of Shell Europe.
joins the team I would also like to take this opportunity to thank Jo Stewart for his contribution to Northern Foods over his 15 years with the group.
as Chief Executive Following the creation of the new operating board, Howard Sims will retire as an executive director on 30 June 2004.
Howard joined Northern in 1998 through the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray Group plc, of which he was Chief Executive, and was appointed to the board Outlook Northern had a strong first quarter last year Although the company has underperformed before the contract loss in July, but trading in in January 2003.
He had worked for Cavaghan & Gray since 1971 and played a truly outstanding in recent years, the inherent strengths of the first seven weeks of the current year is in Northern Foods remain substantial.
We make line with expectations, with underlying retail role in building its business.
We are grateful for his contribution to Northern and wish him well great food that is enjoyed by consumers.
Our focus on growing market sectors and for the future.
successful customers has enabled us I am confident that we have begun to take consistently to achieve enviable rates of sales the right actions to equip Northern Foods to People The quality of our people remains one of the growth.
Our balance sheet is strong, our assets compete in this most demanding climate.
I look are in good shape and our technical expertise forward to the increasing benefits to Northern key strengths of Northern Foods, and I greatly appreciate the commitment that employees and track record in innovation are second to from the refocusing and restructuring initiatives none in the UK.
already in hand, and to further developments at all levels have shown to improving the performance of the business during the under the leadership of our new Chief Executive.
These strengths are vital in a market place difficulties of the last 12 months.
where competition is becoming ever more Peter Blackburn intense.
This has been reflected in the recent Chairman Early in 2004 we were saddened by the deaths of Nicholas Horsley, Chairman of the group slowing of food sales reported by some of our largest customers.
The growing consolidation 2 June 2004 from 1969 to 1988, and Jack Clayton, Finance Director from 1973 to 1986.
A tribute to both and reorganisation of UK food retailing can only increase the pressure on producers and suppliers by our former Chairman Christopher Haskins appears on page 19. to deliver value to their customers.
Trading conditions in the coming year will be challenging for all food manufacturers.
Northern Foods plc Chairmans statement 11 Market change: The long and short term challenges The food market is fast moving and intensely competitive.
Manufacturers must respond to the challenge of remaining in tune with changing consumer tastes and lifestyles.
They must also keep pace with the growing concentration of UK retailing, and address short term issues such as cost inflation.
Consumers In our 24-hour society it is expected that At the same time, the growing diversity of food products should be consumable anytime, the domestic restaurant industry has further The first requirement for any successful food manufacturer is to match the changing needs anywhere.
All these trends are driving growth widened experience of authentic tastes from in Northerns core market segments of around the world.
The challenge for food and lifestyles of consumers by constantly developing and improving its product range.
manufacturers is to match and exceed consumer expectations for both the range and quality Over the last decade, huge social, economic and demographic changes have influenced the Convenience of products available to enjoy at home.
Skills The convenience food sector has grown by in product innovation are increasingly important food we eat, and where and how we do so.
70 per cent over the past 10 years, creating in a market driven by continuous demand for a UK market worth almost 17 billion in more choice and variety.
These changes have included the continuing increase in the number of working women.
This was a billion more than in 2002 and, according to Mintel, accounted for almost a Health Today more than 13 million women are in employment, compared to 11.3 million third of total consumer expenditure on food.
The trend towards healthier lifestyles is also increasing the diversity of product ranges, in 1996.
Increasing time pressures and higher disposable incomes combine to create a Northern is a leading player in this sector with by driving the development of low fat and more than 20 per cent of the market share of nutritionally balanced products that are in tune cash rich, time poor economy where people are prepared to spend more for speed and the UK chilled ready meals meal solutions with the needs of diet and health-conscious market and a similar share in the chilled party consumers.
The growth of health awareness is convenience in a whole range of areas, including food solutions.
food market over Christmas and the New Year.
well illustrated by the rise in spending on health We continually research markets and talk to and fitness clubs, which has increased by a The number of people living alone has also consumers to understand their motivations and massive 179 per cent over the past 10 years.
needs which enables us to capitalise on key In addition, obesity is emerging as an increasingly shown a substantial increase, from 6.4 million in 1993 to some 7.5 million in 2003.
high profile issue in Government, health and food industry circles.
Rates of obesity in the UK by the leading industry analysts Mintel suggests that this figure will exceed 8 million by 2008.
Quality and diversity have trebled over 20 years with 22 per cent of Increasing consumer demand for premium adults currently obese, a level which is forecast People living in smaller households are less likely to cook for themselves, leading to an quality and superior taste also underpins growth to increase to 36 per cent by 2020.
Against this in high added value food sectors.
The growth background, it is ever more important for food increase in the consumption of ready meals, with almost half of UK households buying of international travel has helped to give manufacturers to offer a wide choice of products, todays consumers a wider experience of including healthier options, and to ensure the chilled ready meals once a fortnight.
different cuisines than ever before.
Expenditure clear labelling of all products.
on overseas travel has more than doubled in In addition, busy working lives mean that many more people expect to eat on the go, increasing the past 10 years, and is expected to exceed 20 billion for the first time in 2004. the number of snacks eaten outside the home.
12 Operating review Northern Foods plc Retailers Inflation The UK grocery market is now dominated by In addition to the challenges of a strong four major supermarket multiples Tesco, Asda, euro, 2003 saw particular pressure on food Sainsburys and Morrisons which together manufacturers as a result of the exceptional account for almost 70 per cent of UK food sales.
summer, with temperatures reaching new record Within chilled convenience foods Marks & Spencer highs in the UK and across Europe as a whole.
is also a recognised leading player.
As well as temporarily depressing and disrupting consumer demand, the period of unusually hot The acquisition of Safeway by Morrisons was weather at the end of the growing season had clearly the most important development of a major impact on harvests.
This was reflected the last year, though the dynamics of the in substantial increases in the price of wheat market place have also been affected by a and a range of other products including maize, rush of convenience store acquisitions by many vegetables and both fresh and dried fruit.
These have included Tescos purchase of Adminstore to Meat prices also rose due to a combination add to their previous acquisition of more than of increased demand, helped by the popularity 600 T&S Stores, and Sainsburys takeover of of the Atkins diet, and diminished supply Bells Stores.
Consolidation has also taken place as the long summer enabled farmers to among the smaller players, with the Co-op keep cattle in the fields for longer.
acquiring Alldays and Balfour, and Somerfield recently purchasing Scottish convenience store These price rises, occurring against a background operator Aberness.
of retail price deflation, created an exceptional challenge for all UK food manufacturers.
While This process of consolidation can be expected seeking to recover raw material cost inflation, to lead to an increase in the intensity of Northern Foods responded by focusing on the competition in UK food retailing, particularly groups core strengths, raising efficiencies and in the short term, as the big four retailers reducing costs.
each endeavour to maintain and develop their positions in the market place.
The challenge for food manufacturers is to ensure that they are aligned with the winning retailers, and can achieve efficiencies that enable them to meet their customers demands for value.
Northern Foods plc Operating review 13 Our response: Keeping pace with change Producing great food Northern has continued to enhance its reputation for innovative thinking with a wide range of product launches designed to meet consumers growing demand for convenience, quality, diversity 1and healthy eating.
Developments include new snack products as well as an expanding range of ready meals and significant market share gains in a number of sectors.
Chinese innovation Foxs low fat range to the brand, and now one in four pork pies Following a joint visit to China by development To meet the growing demand for lower fat consumed in the UK is a Pork Farms product.
The teams from Marks & Spencer and our Recipe products, we launched the Foxs Officially brand has also grown its share of the savoury roll Dish Company, the new Chefs Selection range Low Fat range with Apple Crumble and Cherry sector following a successful relaunch in 2003 of traditional Chinese dishes was launched in Bakewell Cookies and Toffee Apple and Very which has led to a 33 per cent uplift in sales.
This uses specially imported Berry snack bars.
In addition, we have launched Northern Foods also uses the Bowyers brand ingredients and mirrors traditional cooking two mini portion-controlled bag variants, within the pork pie market to provide coverage methods to ensure the authenticity and quality Apple & Raspberry and Apricot.
All these within the cured pie sector, particularly in the of the product.
Sales in the Chinese range have products contain less than 3 per cent fat, in line South of England where this type of product is seen a 16.4 per cent growth year on year.
with the latest Food Standards Agency guidelines.
favoured and the brand has its greatest strength.
Northern also continues to work closely with Goodfellas market share major customers to offer a range of healthy Dalepak development In the frozen pizza market sector, a clear focus eating options under their own labels, including In response to the growing demand for on product innovation and excellence has helped Marks & Spencer Count on Us, Sainsburys convenience, Northern launched a new range our Goodfellas brand market share to increase Be Good to Yourself and Tesco Healthy Eating.
of frozen meat-free ready meals under the over the last two years from 16 per cent Dalepak brand.
These address a 187 million to a market leading 23 per cent.
Goodfellas Pork Farms sales growth product sector which grew by 5 per cent last concentrates on three key sectors of the frozen Reflecting the growth of snacking, the Pork Farms year.
Dalepak already has well-established brand pizza market and has shares of 41 per cent brand has experienced over 60 per cent sales credentials as the UK market leader in frozen in Deep Pan, 21 per cent in Thin & Crispy and growth in its core pork pie market during the last vegetable-based products, and the launch of its 34 per cent in the premium sector.
This success two years whilst the total market has grown by new range was based on consumer research which has been built on a clear brand proposition 9 per cent.
Strong TV advertising and investment revealed an increasing demand for better tasting, of Eat out eating in, providing pizzas of in snacking pie formats, such as the 50g mini pie, higher quality and more adventurous dishes, restaurant quality.
has helped to recruit 1.5 million new households while retaining the convenience of frozen food.
14 Operating review Northern Foods plc Growing with the major retailers We continue to develop our partnerships with the major food 2 retailers.
Sales to our five largest customers represented 75 per cent of our total retail sales last year.
One important way in which we demonstrate During the year we commissioned an the closeness of our working relationships with independent researcher to conduct a major our retailer partners is by developing sites or survey of our customers, investigating attitudes part of sites which are dedicated to individual to Northern Foods from all levels within these customers.
We have a number of recipe dish organisations, with the aim of further enhancing facilities that we have developed over the years our understanding of our principal customers to supply Marks & Spencer.
We are now building upon this research is a dedicated supplier to Tesco, quiche to ensure we continue to grow and develop production at Riverside Bakery is for Sainsburys our relationships.
and the Cavaghan & Gray ready meals factory in Hull solely supplies Morrisons Safeway.
Marks & Spencer Morrisons with ready meals in November 2003, Asda As a major supplier to Marks & Spencer we and are well placed to supply the enlarged The successful partnership between Asda and have continued to develop our partnerships business with the chilled ready meals range our Premium Savoury Products business has by exploring the use of new technology and that it needs to keep progressing its share in been reflected in substantial turnover growth.
We are at the this growing market.
We now supply a total of 83 product lines to forefront of trials with Marks & Spencer Asda including the majority of their own label of Radio Frequency Identification RFID Tesco hot-eating pies, slices and pork pies along with tagging.
This technology allows greater Our dedicated chilled pizza facility for Tesco most of their savoury rolls and pasties.
As well control and visibility of work in progress continued its successful product development as pre-packed chilled lines, we also supply on the factory floor.
programme last year with the launch of unique savoury pastry products to Asdas delicatessen new grilled pizzas under the Tesco Finest and sandwich counters.
Particular successes The introduction of an innovative vendor brand, in two variants, Italian Ham & Mozarella this year have included the exceptional sales managed inventory system has helped us to and Italian Sausage & Roasted Peppers.
These growth of the Extra Special premium category achieve significant sales growth in the mature were developed using bespoke technology to in hot-eating pies and the launch of a twin pack cold-eating pie and scotch egg market.
Pork replicate the char-grilling techniques used in snack Melton Mowbray pork pie.
Strong new Farms Bowyers assumed responsibility for US restaurants.
Finest Grilled, launched by Tesco product development is now in hand to drive merchandising management of this category for in October 2003, proved to be their two best continued growth in the current year.
Marks & Spencer, undertaking a range of tasks selling new pizza lines and achieved sales double including sales forecasting, store allocations, daily the original forecast.
Further investment is amendments, store-by-store product ranging planned to facilitate an extension of this and waste analysis.
After a year in operation successful range in the current year.
the new working methods have helped to drive significant improvements in Marks & Spencers Sainsburys market share in these categories whilst Northern is a major supplier of quiche and improving availability and reducing waste.
flans to Sainsburys, from Riverside Bakery in Nottingham.
Our successful trading relationship Morrisons Safeway in this area is based on maintaining high Our dedicated recipe dish factory for Safeway efficiency in our core volume business while in Hull opened late in 2001 and moved into providing innovation and support for the profit in autumn 2003.
Over this period, thanks different selling channels and tiers in the range.
to the range and quality of products, Safeway In the last year we have seen particularly strong substantially increased its ready meal volume growth in Taste the Difference products, and and market share.
We began to supply have also increased our presence in newer sectors such as Occasions party food and Christmas vegetable accompaniments.
Northern Foods plc Operating review 15 Cutting costs We have begun to leverage the real benefits of our scale as a 3 1.5 billion food company, by increasing the role of the corporate centre in key functions, such as procurement and in the provision of common services.
Biscuit business merger procurement synergies, and our new central This was achieved by a combination of In September 2003 we created a single biscuit team is exploiting this information to identify capital investment, reorganisation of working company through the merger of our Foxs and and manage key suppliers.
We are already arrangements, and a focus on lean Elkes businesses, which had traditionally focused obtaining commercial benefits from the manufacturing.
on the premium branded and value own aggregation of protein, ingredient and packaging label sectors respectively.
Integration of these volumes, and aim to accelerate the pace of At Fletchers Bakery in Sheffield, we also operations was designed to deliver commercial consolidation in our supply chain during the improved productivity through automation benefits as well as producing direct cost savings, current year.
projects on three of its 14 plants, and a site-wide and both are being achieved.
headcount and overhead reductions have Shared services already been realised, producing the budgeted The groups new shared service centre in At our other speciality bread manufacturing profit improvement.
In addition, retailers are Wakefield opened in July 2003, bringing together sites, Kara productivity increased by 22 per cent gaining an increased appreciation of our total functions such as finance, administration and through the application of lean manufacturing capabilities through our combined marketing IT support which were formerly assigned to techniques, while Grain DOr benefited from function, while factory-based staff are free to individual operating companies.
Investment capital expenditure for further automation of its focus entirely on driving production efficiencies.
in the function has included a scanning and muffin and croissant manufacturing processes.
The enlarged Foxs Biscuits has performed well archiving system to permit the electronic Muffin productivity also improved through the over the last year, increasing its share of the storage of data, creating a largely paper-free application of robotics to packing.
branded biscuit market by half a percentage office environment.
As well as cutting costs point and consolidating its position as the by achieving economies of scale, centralisation We have introduced a continuous improvement clear number three in UK biscuits.
was designed to improve the quality of service programme into Green Isles pizza manufacturing in all areas.
In IT support, we are already seeing operations as part of our plan to achieve Procurement benefits from the improved co-ordination of lean manufacturing and ultimately world Plans to strengthen our centralised procurement service across the group.
The programme team are now well advanced, following the is designed around Toyotas production appointment of an experienced new executive Increasing manufacturing productivity system model.
to head this important function on a group-wide Further progress in increasing the efficiency basis.
This forms a key part of our response and productivity of our operations has been to the continuing cost pressures on all food made throughout the year.
The implementation of the manufacturing productivity across our SAP system throughout the group has provided speciality bread business by 27 per cent.
an excellent platform for assessing potential 16 Operating review Northern Foods plc Focus on core areas Northern is determined to focus on those core areas where it has real competitive advantage and can create value for 4 customers and shareholders alike.
This is reflected in the acquisition of Solway Foods and the disposal of a number of smaller businesses.
Solway Foods is a leading supplier of fresh Batchelors and Beck Smith, our ambient chilled convenience foods, principally to Tesco, grocery operations in Ireland, were sold to addressing a number of expanding product a new company formed by Barrys Tea and sectors including sandwiches, sushi, prepared the Bank of Scotland for 95.5 million including salad meals, pasta salad snacks and sandwich cash balances of 33.2 million in January 2004. fillers.
Northern acquired an initial 40 per cent Batchelors is a leading brand in Ireland, where it shareholding in the business in 2000 and took holds market leadership in baked beans, and the full control in June 2003. business also produces and distributes a range of other canned goods and fruit juices.
Although Solway has modern factories at Corby these were solid and profitable businesses, they in Northamptonshire and Manton Wood were not aligned with Northerns key strategic in Nottinghamshire, where a major new focus on fast-growing market sectors and major extension, more than doubling capacity, was retail customers in the UK.
The acquisition has increased Northerns exposure to a number of fast-growing market segments, further developed our successful trading relationship Since the year end we have also disposed of with Tesco, and given us potential to secure our Emile Tissot frozen food service business the full benefit of group-wide synergies in and our Eden Vale Minsterley fresh chilled areas such as productivity and procurement.
The acquisition of San Marco from Heinz for Emile Tissot, which we acquired in 1998 as part 0.9 million on 22 May 2003 has strengthened of our acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray Group the portfolio of our Goodfellas frozen pizza plc, was sold to Dawn Fresh Foods Limited, part business and contributed to its continued of the Queally Group in Ireland, in May 2004 success in the market place.
Foxs Confectionery, which had been formed Eden Vale was sold to Uniq Prepared Foods by the acquisition of Paynes in 1998 and of the Limited, a subsidiary of Uniq plc, in May 2004 Foxs Glacier mint business in 2001, was sold for 16.5 million.
to a new company formed by a management buy-in team in September 2003 for 9.4 The Minsterley site is a manufacturer of million.
Northern retains for future sale the dairy desserts, yogurt, fromage frais and valuable freehold Paynes factory site in cottage cheese, sold primarily under the Croydon.
Although the Foxs brands were Marks & Spencer and Asda retailer brands.
well known in the UK and the business was It also produces a range of branded desserts profitable, Northern did not feel that it could under licence.
justify the significant further investment that would be required to build critical mass in the confectionery market.
Northern Foods plc Operating review 17 Investing for growth Although capital expenditure has been tightly controlled this year, as we have focused on getting improved returns from our existing assets, 5 Northern has continued to invest in two key areas critical to business success: advanced technology and people.
Technology People The SAP management information system In a climate where priority is being given to has now been implemented across all sites minimising costs and improving profitability, in Northern Foods with the exception of our it is crucial that our manufacturing teams are recent Solway acquisition, where installation equipped with the skills to work efficiently.
The first phase of The managing resources module of the the project, which is now completed, applied Northern Foods certificate in manufacturing SAP to a number of areas including financial management, run in conjunction with Sheffield accounting, sales and distribution.
Hallam University, has undergone several The second phase extends to manufacturing changes in recent months to update its content, processes such as materials requirements particularly through the incorporation of lean planning MRP, variance analysis and product manufacturing and continuous improvement costing.
This is on target to be rolled out by the techniques and practices.
The first set of end of October 2004.
We are already seeing delegates recently completed the new module, real benefits from the improved business developing nine projects which delivered an information that SAP generates and from the average saving to the business of 50,000. standardisation of systems across the group.
A programme to train and develop factory managers in the pursuit of lean manufacturing Radio Frequency Identification RFID and profit improvement has also been launched technology is helping to improve manufacturing this year.
efficiency by reducing costs, controlling waste and improving visibility in the control of In addition, we have reviewed our graduate production.
A pilot project at our Pork Farms entry procedures and launched a new Bowyers site in Nottingham is progressing well management essentials scheme which is, and delivering benefits through tighter control for the first time, open to existing Northern of meat weighing and improved traceability employees with high potential as well as throughout the manufacturing process.
Direct external candidates with work experience.
interfaces between RFID and our SAP system The scheme provides a structured two year reduce our administrative input and in time training and development programme that the two systems will work together to achieve will help to ensure our management capability improved management of variances.
project is creating a knowledge base from which Northern will be able to assess and develop future applications.
18 Operating review Northern Foods plc Tribute to former directors NICHOLAS HORSLEY JACK CLAYTON Nicholas Horsley, who died in January 2004 at the age of 69, was Jack Clayton, who died in February 2004 at the age of 77, was Chairman of Northern Foods for almost 20 years, during which the stable and reassuring accountant who helped to consolidate time the company was transformed from a small, though very Northerns many acquisitions of the 1970s, and complemented the successful, Yorkshire dairy company into a leading national unconventional Horsley and Haskins team.
This was of particular manufacturer of high quality, added-value foods.
importance in securing the support of the City during this exciting period of expansion.
Born in 1934, Nick was the second child of Alec Horsley, who founded Northern Dairies in 1937.
He joined the family firm shortly after Born in 1927 in Lancashire, where he soon became a devotee of leaving Oxford with a third class degree that owed much to his Hollands Pies, Jack first joined Northern Dairies in 1963 and was keen interest in politics, tennis and women.
He became Chairman group Finance Director from 1973 to 1986.
Although he appeared on Alecs retirement in 1969 and led a successful diversification an archetypal Tory, he worked harmoniously with his radical Chairman programme through acquisitions including Park Cakes, Smiths Flour and played a vital role in restraining the almost boundless enthusiasm Mills, Hull Brewery, Foxs Biscuits and Pork Farms.
This was the period of Nick and myself for doing deals.
When businesses were acquired, when Northern pioneered the sale of chilled prepared meals and he was chiefly responsible for ensuring that they were properly sandwiches through retailers, and the business changed its name to organised and successfully consolidated within the group.
He also Northern Foods in 1973 to reflect this broader base.
made an important contribution to the management of the Northern Foods Pension Scheme.
Nick was a fascinating character, highly talented yet consistently laid back and he certainly never took himself too seriously.
Somehow he Highly regarded by bankers, analysts and investors, Jack did much to managed to combine his radical and unconventional approach to life build Northerns reputation as a leading British company.
His honesty with being a wealthy businessman who was, in many respects, a pillar and straightforwardness were appreciated by all.
For many years he served as President of the Dairy Industry Federation and chaired the Yorkshire and Humber Retiring from the board in 1988, Jack moved first to Nottinghamshire Regional Economic Board.
Yet this work was always balanced by his and then to the Cotswolds.
He is survived by his wife Joy and two sons.
conviction that enterprise and wealth creation must be accompanied by a concern for social justice and the individual.
In this he was Christopher Haskins following his familys strong Quaker tradition, though he was rather Chairman 1988 to 2002 less strict in observing the Quaker precepts against drinking and gambling.
He wore his CND badge proudly at 10 Downing Street even in Mrs Thatchers heyday, and was also an active campaigner on many local and regional issues.
A lifelong interest in the media culminated in his chairmanship of the colourful but unsuccessful attempt in 1986 to create a new, radical, national newspaper, News on Sunday.
Forced to retire through ill health at the early age of 53, Nick moved to the West Indies in 1988 but remained to the end a passionate Yorkshireman and a keen follower of Yorkshire and English cricket.
He is survived by his third wife Alwyne and the three children of his first marriage.
Northern Foods plc Tribute to former directors 19 Recognising and fulfilling our corporate social responsibilities This commitment to assuring the safety and Northern Foods long-standing commitment quality of our products is clearly demonstrated by the accreditation of both our laboratory to corporate social responsibility is based services and our site technical audit processes to the highest agreed international standards on the belief that we have a duty to all our by the UK Accreditation Service.
These include our employees, We have long been recognised as an industry shareholders, customers, consumers, suppliers, leader in food safety training, a requirement for all employees.
Northern Foods Technical the wider community and the environment.
Services provide additional training, approved by the Royal Institute of Public Health, in HACCP Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points and Internal Technical Audit.
More than Northern Foods is committed to acting Third party verification assessments were 450 employees have successfully completed responsibly in all areas of the business.
We have conducted at a representative number of our HACCP training, and more than 250 our a senior executive with overall responsibility operating sites over the year: we are pleased Internal Technical Audit training.
for corporate social responsibility CSR, whose that these assessments have confirmed role is to co-ordinate and review our activities the high standards of our labour practices.
Our technical policies are in place throughout and assess the needs of our stakeholders.
our supply chain, from farmer to consumer, He liaises regularly with fellow executives We have also been working in collaboration and are supported by a robust programme and senior managers with specific responsibility with our retail customers Marks & Spencer, of materials testing, Northern Foods audit, for each stakeholder area, and reports to the Safeway, Tesco and Waitrose, together with and independent, accredited inspections.
board on matters relating to CSR, including food manufacturers Geest, RHM and Uniq, specific risks or opportunities which may arise.
and ethical trading consultants Impactt, to Our commitment is further underlined by our devise a common approach to promoting endowment of the Northern Foods Chair of We have begun to offer greater detail about improvements in labour standards in supply Food Safety at the University of Nottingham, our CSR activity through our website chains.
That initiative, known as SEDEX, which is acknowledged as a world centre of www.
We have also is a secure web-based system for companies excellence in food technology.
The first holder of enhanced our understanding of best practice to maintain data on labour standards at the Chair, Professor Ian Connerton, leads a and new legislation in this area thanks to our production sites and to make that data available research team in molecular biology which is membership of Business in the Community to other companies with which they are in working to increase understanding of food-borne BITC.
We have disclosed our performance in a trading relationship, in order to drive and bacterial pathogens, with the ultimate aim this area by completing questionnaires about demonstrate improvements.
SEDEX will make of eliminating them from the food chain.
our CSR activities including the Business in the it easier for Northern Foods, and the members Environment Index and Ethical Investment of our supply chain who wish to participate in Consumer needs Research Service EIRIS.
the initiative, to provide information on labour We believe that we must supply products which standards, to reduce duplication of effort in fit with the lifestyles of todays UK population, Ethical manufacturing and trading assessment, and to focus attention and resources meeting their demands not just for great taste In todays global trading environment, on driving improvements where these are and texture, but also for variety and innovation, we recognise that there is growing stakeholder required.
It is anticipated that the SEDEX plus of course, the high levels of convenience interest not only in the sources of our raw initiative will be open to our suppliers and that people living full and busy lives are materials, but also in the employment other companies in mid 2004. demanding.
conditions of the many people involved in their production.
This stretches back from our own Our commitment to assuring the standards We recognise our responsibilities to respond to operating sites to the beginning of the food of animal welfare throughout the supply chain a changing world.
In particular as a major food supply chain whether in the UK or overseas.
The Northern Foods Farm supplier, we acknowledge that we have a key Assurance policy has been in place since 2000. part to play in ensuring that shoppers have We have long been committed to fair choices available that enable them to create employment in Northern Foods.
During the Food safety healthy as well as pleasurable diets for past year, an ethical manufacturing working Our corporate responsibility to those who use themselves and their families.
Whilst our first group was formed to provide assurance that and eat our products is demonstrated in a priority will always be food safety, there is a our policies and operating site practices are number of different ways.
growing recognition of the impact of diet on in line with the expectations of our retail consumer health.
We are therefore engaging, customers, many of whom are signatories to, Most importantly our products must be safe, both directly and via our membership or supporters of, the Ethical Trading Initiative.
and we recognise our responsibility to all our of the Food and Drink Federation FDF, consumers to ensure that we apply rigorous with Government and others to promote standards.
the Eating for Health campaign in the UK population.
Northern Foods plc Corporate social responsibility 21 The issue of obesity has received much publicity Our achievements in health and safety have Northern Foods provides training and recently, as has the need to reduce the amount been recognised again this year.
Foxs Biscuits development opportunities to ensure that we of salt in the UK diet.
We have worked for many in Uttoxeter received an award for the third make the most of all our employees, and to years to ensure that lower fat, reduced calorie year running from the Health & Safety Executive encourage individuals to realise their true alternatives are available to our consumers.
for a successful and original programme of on-site potential.
National Vocational Qualifications More recently, we have developed salt reduction activities in support of European Week of Safety NVQs are used across the business plans for our Northern Foods brands and we are and Health and five of our sites received RoSPA to provide a framework for skills development actively working in conjunction with other food Gold Health and Safety awards.
for a wide range of employees.
suppliers to agree a programme of salt reduction for meat products to support the Employee involvement and participation At both Pork Farms Bowyers and Riverside national target of reducing total salt intake from Northern Foods fulfils its responsibilities Bakery, more than 200 employees have the current average of 9.5g to 6g per day.
to its employees seriously and proactively.
successfully completed NVQ Level II in In an increasingly competitive environment, either Performing Manufacturing Operations Health and safety we believe that effective communication and or Technical Services in 2003.
Northern Foods is committed to providing consultation serves both the interests of the a safe and healthy place of work for all company and of our employees.
The Manufacturing Training Programme at employees.
Developing a strong health and Gunstones Bakery is helping newly appointed safety culture is an essential part of putting During recent years, there has been much managers to achieve intermediate BTEC our values into practice.
emphasis on improving communication and Level I and II in Food Manufacturing.
consultation, both within operating companies Our health and safety policy was substantially and across Northern Foods.
This has resulted We have also seen the introduction of a number revised during the year to take into account in a number of changes, including employee of learning resource centres at our operating organisational changes and new legislation.
In briefings, a video for all employees presenting sites throughout the year.
Each centre is open addition to setting out our vision and policy for company strategy and direction and the to any employee and offers training in a variety health and safety, it lays down clearly defined Northern Foods and operating company forums, of topics, including basic skills, languages and IT.
responsibilities and our system for planning, which continue to be a key element of our implementing and evaluating our health and overall strategy.
The wider community safety performance.
Northern Foods has long believed that it has As part of this work, we carried out a second a duty to help the disadvantaged, both in the During the year we thoroughly revised our group-wide MORI communications survey in communities where we operate, and in the audit procedures to ensure that we continue 2003.
This gave employees an opportunity to wider world.
Accordingly we have made to challenge our sites to achieve even higher express their views about what Northern Foods substantial donations to charity projects standards of health, safety and fire risk is like as a place of work: what they think about for many years.
This will enable us to evaluate the its leadership and direction and about their quality and effectiveness of our control systems immediate manager: and the level and methods Last year the value of all of Northern Foods in even greater depth.
An innovative aspect of of communication, consultation and charitable contributions was approximately our revised process has been the introduction involvement.
Of this total, 291,000 was in the of topic-specific audits for significant risks within form of cash donations.
As well as making the food industry including workplace transport, The results showed that significant cash donations, Northern contributes to its slips and trips and musculo-skeletal disorders.
improvements had been made since the communities in a number of other ways.
previous poll three years ago, including more The majority of our operating companies take There was a pleasing further reduction in our effective communications within operating part in community volunteering or secondment accident frequency rate during the year, with companies and improved relationships with schemes primarily to support education reportable accidents down by 15 per cent.
initiatives such as mentoring, CV writing Recognising the importance of proper and and reading schemes.
Northern Foods also prompt investigations to prevent any recurrence Employee welfare and development continues to offer graduate trainee managers of accidents, we have introduced an improved Our approach is to encourage individuals to the opportunity to carry out a two-week accident investigation system supported by a realise their true potential.
We are committed assignment with a local community organisation.
The new to equality of opportunity and aim to treat The cost of employee time in such volunteering system focuses on identifying underlying all our employees fairly in all aspects of and secondment schemes is valued at causes so that these can be analysed and employment.
We offer flexible working patterns 44,000.
We also make gifts in kind valued used as a tool in prevention.
to promote work life balance and to enable at 12,000, which mainly take the form of us to attract applicants from a wide pool.
22 Corporate social responsibility Northern Foods plc In addition to these charitable contributions, A recent sponsored volunteer, Mel Hammersley, Northern Foods remains within the Climate most sites encourage fundraising for approved left her job as business account manager at Change Levy Rebate Scheme, and has continued good causes during working hours, and last year our Palethorpes site to work for two years to improve energy efficiency across the group.
our employees raised over 42,000 for their in Tanzania as a college development officer.
local communities through activities such Her role was to assist vocational colleges As in previous years, we participated in the as sponsored events, raffles and collections.
in developing courses that will enable their Business in the Environment Index.
We are students to go out and make a living.
By confident that the preparatory work for IPPC Supporting disadvantaged communities in supporting VSO, Northern knows that it is will enable us to significantly increase our the British Isles accounts for approximately helping people to help themselves.
Mel has score in the survey for 2004 2005.
60 per cent of our cash contributions.
We since returned to work at Park Cakes and is donate to charities and community groups applying the benefit of her experiences to her The Animal By-Product Regulations, requiring in areas close to our operations who work to new role.
manufacturers to divert food waste containing help the homeless, the unemployed, young animal by-products away from landfill and to people suffering exclusion, ethnic minorities, The environment an alternative disposal method, came into force ex-offenders and others.
Northern Foods believes that its commercial in July 2003.
However, the shortage of waste and ethical interests are completely aligned processing infrastructure and capacity throughout Education projects are a priority for Northern in focusing on the most efficient use of all Europe meant that, in practice, manufacturers and support is given to local schools around resources and on minimising emissions.
We were unable to achieve compliance.
As a our sites in various ways, for example to manage our environmental obligations by consequence, enforcement is delayed until address bullying or to provide support for providing leadership and co-ordination at the 1 January 2006.
Working with various trade after-school initiatives.
group level and implementing policy through associations, Northern Foods is playing a leading the factory operations teams.
part in discussions with the waste management In the developing world we focus our support industry and the regulators to ensure that the principally on sustainable development projects.
A key activity during the year has been industry is able to comply by this revised date This year marks the tenth anniversary of preparation for the introduction of Integrated without incurring unnecessary cost.
Northern Foods working in partnership Pollution Prevention Control IPPC regulations, with Voluntary Services Overseas VSO, which are being extended to cover food The Landfill Directive which comes into force in an international charity that works through manufacturers for the first time in 2004.
2010, the landfill tax escalator and the shortage skilled, professional volunteers.
It partners with To operate under IPPC, a successful application of landfill sites in some parts of the country organisations overseas, including schools and requires each affected site to demonstrate will change the way that the UK manages community groups, to deliver the skills that effective environmental management and the disposal of solid waste.
We have provided they need to improve their services.
control, including the application of the best leadership in the establishment of the available technique to minimise emissions.
Sustainable Organic Resources Partnership In the last 10 years, Northerns volunteers have We expect that 14 of our sites will have which seeks to address potential problems managed school farms in Ghana and Zambia, registered under IPPC by the end of the in the recycling of organic solids to land.
given a dairy in Belize the expertise to market current financial year.
milk by-products, run a nutrition programme for undernourished children in The Gambia and Northern Foods has developed its own helped women in that country to make money framework for an environmental management from processing surplus crops.
system suitable for food factories.
As part of our engagement with the local community, our framework was reproduced by Nottingham Energy Partnership and made available free of charge to small and medium-sized enterprises in the East Midlands area.
Northern Foods plc Corporate social responsibility 23 Our sales trend remained strong, but profits reflected cost under-recovery, the loss of a major contract and exceptional weather.
Despite this our financial position remained robust, with tight control of costs and capital expenditure delivering strong cash generation.
With further cash inflows from the disposal of non-core businesses, this underpinned the continuation of our progressive dividend and share buyback programme.
Sales Our sales were up 8.5 per cent at 1,542.1 million with the 53rd week contributing just under two percentage points to the total.
Underlying retail sales, excluding the impact of currency, acquisitions, divestments and the 53rd week, grew by 3.5 per cent despite the loss of a major savoury products contract during the first half.
Although the two halves showed a similar trend, the contract loss had a greater effect in the latter period and was countered by very strong progress with our other major customers.
Overall, continuing sales excluding acquisitions rose by 3.5 per cent in Convenience and 10.9 per cent in Grocery.
Price increases averaging one per cent were achieved during the year.
This was lower than the inflationary pressure we experienced on input costs.
However, these were progressively recovered during the year and we ended it with prices on average two per cent higher than in March 2003, much closer to the prevailing level of cost inflation.
Operating profit Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 22.0 million was 7.4 per cent lower than in the prior year at 107.0 million.
Our Convenience businesses more than accounted for this reduction, reflecting only partial recovery of input cost Financial review: inflation and our contract loss.
Operating profit increased by 20.4 per cent to 85.0 million due to lower operating exceptional costs.
Tight control of Continuing Convenience operating profit before acquisitions, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was down 23.0 per cent at 56.1 million.
Under-recovered inflation costs and capital reduced profits in many operations and the contract loss left Premium Savoury Products with a significant shortfall.
The extremely hot summer also had an adverse effect.
These expenditure factors more than account for the shortfall in Convenience profits.
Sean Christie Finance Director Analysed in the analysis of activities 24 Financial review Northern Foods plc In Grocery, a strong performance in frozen Share buyback Cash flow food plus a turnaround in our biscuit business We bought 24.4 million shares in the market at Tight control of capital expenditure and boosted continuing operating profit before a cost of 37.1 million, following the purchase improved working capital, excluding the goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 36.4 million shares for 55.5 million in the movement in the pension prepayment of to 45.2 million, up 12.7 per cent.
Since the start of the programme 13.9 million, resulted in an increase in net benefited from the acquisition of San Marco in February 2000 we have returned 143.6 debt of only 8.8 million despite returning from Heinz, complementing our core Goodfellas million of cash to shareholders through share 82.0 million to shareholders through dividends pizza range, while Dalepak enjoyed an extended buybacks.
Since February 2004 we have made and share buybacks.
Our free cash flow barbecue season.
A combination of cost use of the new treasury share rules rather than generation, before acquisitions, disposals and reduction and strong second half trading cancelling the shares purchased.
dividends, at 61.6 million was 14.0 million produced the budgeted recovery in the enlarged higher than in the previous year, despite our Foxs Biscuits.
This was The tax charge before goodwill amortisation further boosted by the 50.9 million net The acquisition of Solway Foods more than and exceptional items for the year was proceeds from the sales of Batchelors and offset the disposals of Batchelors and Foxs 18.0 per cent last year: 18.4 per cent.
tax rates, settlement of prior year items and tax efficient funding were the key reasons for the Treasury management Pre-tax profit difference between this rate and the basic rate The group has a centralised treasury function Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and of UK corporation tax.
which operates within a policy framework exceptional items was reduced by 11.8 per cent approved and regularly reviewed by the board.
to 86.0 million, with increased interest costs Earnings per share The department is not run as a profit centre from the timing of the acquisition of Solway Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional and is subject to internal audit review.
Its and the share buyback programme adding to items, earnings per share fell 7.0 per cent activities are routinely reported to the board.
Basic earnings per share fell The purpose of the centralised treasury function decreased 28.7 per cent to 75.4 million, 31.8 per cent to 12.78 pence, reflecting the is to manage the main treasury risks, including reflecting the profit on the sale of the Ski and inclusion of the profit on the Ski and Munch liquidity, interest rates and foreign currency.
Munch Bunch brands to Nestl UK included in Bunch sale in the prior year.
Whilst each business in the group is responsible the prior year.
for its own cash management, all resulting cash Dividend flows and balances are managed by the central Exceptional items and goodwill amortisation The board proposes a final dividend of 5.60 treasury to minimise borrowings and interest There were exceptional credits representing pence per share making a total for the year costs.
The main treasury policies are the net profit on the disposal of Batchelors of 8.90 pence per share, an increase of 2.3 summarised below: and Foxs Confectionery of 9.4 million per cent.
Dividend cover is 1.6 times on a and a further profit arising from the sale of Ski pre-exceptional, pre-goodwill amortisation basis.
Liquidity and Munch Bunch to Nestl UK last year of The group operates a policy of maintaining 2.2 million.
This was offset by reorganisation Capital expenditure certainty of funding by a combination of costs of 8.2 million relating to the ongoing Since our trading update in September 2003 committed floating and fixed rate facilities restructuring of the group including the we have tightly controlled capital expenditure, supplemented by uncommitted facilities.
Fox Elkes merger and the set up of central keeping the years total spend to 71.3 million The policy is to ensure that forecast net shared services for finance, IT and procurement.
last year: 79.4 million, in line with depreciation.
borrowings plus a reasonable operating Following the restructuring it was necessary to Within this we have undertaken a number headroom are covered by committed facilities, make an impairment charge of 10.3 million of important strategic spends, including the which mature at least 12 months after the against the carrying value of the SAP system re-opening of our Savoury Foods factory in year end.
directly relating to these elements.
Nottingham to cope with growing chilled pizza demand, the second phase of the new Manton Bank facilities Including the tax credit, the net exceptional Wood sandwich factory for Solway Foods and The committed core of our funding cost was 1.4 million compared with an ongoing spend on SAP prior to the opening of arrangements is formed by long term facilities exceptional profit of 24.2 million last year.
our new shared service centre in Wakefield.
currently comprising a 450 million, five year, Goodwill amortisation totalled 3.7 million revolving credit facility and a 90 million fixed last year: 3.1 million.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC Earnings per share and dividend five year trend Margin over costs of funds Return on average invested capital ROIC before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p % Dividends EPS 16 12 14 10 12 8 10 8 6 6 4 4 2 2 0 0 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Northern Foods plc Financial review 25 Financial review continued Short term funding requirements are met Adding back goodwill previously written off, have returned to growth, being more than through a mix of committed overdraft facilities our average invested capital was 934.3 million.
offset by the effects of changes in the discount 23 million and uncommitted other short The post-tax return on invested capital rate and inflation assumptions underlying the term facilities of 57 million.
ROIC was reduced to 9.2 per cent excluding present value of the scheme liabilities.
The exceptional items last year: 10.0 per cent but, effect on pre-tax profit would have been a Interest rates with the weighted average cost of capital at reduction of 13.5 million made up of the The group manages its exposure to interest rate 6.9 per cent, we still achieved a healthy loss of the SSAP 24 variation credit and the fluctuations on its borrowings by operating with margin over the cost of funds.
calculation differences between the two a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
We will continue to report The objective is to operate with fixed rate Pensions profits under SSAP 24 until the adoption of borrowings within a range of 20 to 50 per cent We believe that a defined benefit pension International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
of total borrowings over the medium term, scheme is an important benefit to our employees although the group may operate outside of that and is part of the remuneration package offered Implementation of IFRS range during the year.
Board approval is required to support the recruitment, motivation and We have developed a framework for the for use of interest rate derivatives and no retention of high calibre employees.
The Standards become interest rate derivatives are currently in place.
decided to keep our final salary scheme in 2002 effective for accounting periods commencing we increased contributions for all employees after 1 January 2005.
Our analysis indicates the Currency from 5 to 7 per cent and removed a number most significant areas of difference from UK The group operates primarily in the UK with of company funded early retirement provisions GAAP are the recognition and measurement of only approximately 13.7 per cent of sales arising for future service.
financial instruments, pensions, intangible fixed from companies operating in currencies other assets, deferred tax and share-based payments.
Forward foreign exchange contracts The last full valuation of the scheme was carried and currency options are used to hedge foreign out as at 31 March 2002 using a market-based Information technology transactional cash flows and accordingly approach.
The market value of the schemes All companies except the newly acquired any gains and losses on these contracts are assets was 449.9 million which represented Solway Foods are using SAP.
This has enabled recognised in the profit and loss account when 95 per cent of the value of accrued benefits us to centralise all IT and commission the new the underlying transaction is settled.
To the allowing for assumed future increases in earnings.
shared service centre in Wakefield, which went extent that a forward foreign exchange contract live in the second half.
A rapid roll-out plan is not a hedge, any resulting gain or loss is taken Our fund is relatively immature with almost removing all financial accounting, ledgers and to the profit and loss account.
The company twice the level of contributions going in as administration from our operating companies does not hedge against translation and all pensions paid out, which leaves us able to is now under way.
significant derivatives require board approval.
take a long term view of investment returns.
We continue to charge pension costs against We are at the forefront of Marks & Spencers Balance sheet profits based on SSAP 24 and the latest full trials of Radio Frequency Identification RFID The net result of trading, capital expenditure, valuation of the scheme.
The variation credit tagging, technology which we have also acquisitions and divestments led to trading due to the amortisation of past surpluses successfully implemented internally for the assets increasing to 693.1 million last year: reduces the pension charge by 0.1 million.
control of work in progress on the factory floor.
With net debt at the year end of 332.4 million last year: 323.6 million, The potential effects of adopting FRS 17 are Sean Christie gearing was only slightly higher at 92.2 per cent that the post-tax balance sheet deficit rises Finance Director and EBITDA interest cover before exceptional to 155.7 million last year: 143.5 million.
items was 8.1 times last year: 9.2 times.
The uplift in the value of assets, as equities 2 June 2004 Post-tax return on average equity funds invested five year trend before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items % 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 26 Financial review Northern Foods plc Board of directors and Company Secretary 1 23 4 5 67 8 9 1 Peter Blackburn CBE 63, Chairman 5 Matthew Gribbin 46 Joined the board in 2001 and became Chairman in February 2002.
Joined Northern Foods in 1981 and has held a number of senior He was previously Chairman and Chief Executive of Nestl UK Limited.
positions within the Northern Foods group.
He is a non-executive director of SIG plc and Compass Group PLC, He is a Council member of the Federation of Bakers.
He is Chairman and is a past President of the Food and Drink Federation.
He chairs of Northern Foods Trustees Limited.
6 Howard Sims 56 2 Anthony Hobson 56, Deputy Chairman Joined Northern Foods in 1998 upon the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray Joined the board in 2002.
He is a non-executive director of HBOS plc, Group plc, of which he was Chief Executive, and joined the board in 2003.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc, Liberata plc and Glas Cymru.
He had been employed by Cavaghan & Gray since November 1971.
He He was the Group Finance Director of Legal & General Group plc will retire as a director on 30 June 2004. until his retirement in 2001.
He chairs the remuneration committee.
7 Colin Dyer 51 3 Pat ODriscoll 45, Chief Executive Joined the board in 1997.
He is Chief Executive Officer of WorldWide Joined the board on 29 March 2004.
She was previously Retail Vice Retail Exchange and was formerly Chief Executive Officer of Courtaulds President of Shell Europe and, prior to joining Shell in 1997, she held Textiles plc.
He chairs the audit committee.
positions with leading UK retailers including Safeway, Tesco and Marks & Spencer.
She was an Independent Director of Assa Abloy 8 Orna Ni-Chionna 48 AB in Sweden until 2004.
She is a former partner of McKinsey & Company.
She is a non-executive director of Bank of Ireland UK Holdings plc, 4 Sean Christie 46, Finance Director Bristol & West plc and BUPA, and is a trustee of the Soil Association.
Joined Northern Foods in 1979 and was Finance Director of Pork Farms and Foxs Biscuits, and subsequently of Northern Foods Prepared Foods 9 Julian Wild 51, Company Secretary activities, prior to his appointment to the board in 1996.
He is a Joined Northern Foods in 1979.
He is a non-executive director of non-executive director of Kingston Communications Hull PLC.
Feonic PLC and is a board member of Yorkshire Culture.
Non-executive director Remuneration committee member Audit committee member Nomination committee member Northern Foods plc Board of directors and Company Secretary 27 Summary report of the directors Principal activities and business review Corporate governance This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement Throughout the year Northern Foods has been in compliance with the and the Financial review, which together include information about provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The board has group activities, the financial performance during the year and likely approved and implemented the additional actions required to secure developments.
compliance with the New Combined Code, as it has applied since 1 November 2003.
The principles of good corporate governance have Dividend been applied.
An interim dividend of 3.30 pence per share was paid on 26 March 2004 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 5.60 pence per share The board committees are: audit committee: remuneration committee: to be paid on 27 August 2004 to shareholders on the register on and nomination committee.
Northern Foods also had an executive 30 July 2004. committee during the year under review.
On 2 June 2004 the creation of a new operating board was announced.
Further details are contained Directors within the Chairmans statement on page 11.
The directors are listed on page 27, together with their biographical details, and were directors of the company throughout the year except for All the non-executive directors are independent.
The Deputy Chairman, P A ODriscoll, who was appointed Chief Executive on 29 March 2004.
A J Hobson, is the senior independent director.
Following the resignation of A J Stewart as Chief Executive, P H Blackburn assumed the role of In accordance with the companys articles of association, P H Blackburn, Executive Chairman from 4 September 2003 until the appointment of M S Christie, C Dyer, A J Hobson, and O G Ni-Chionna retire and, being P A ODriscoll.
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Chairman confirms that, following formal evaluation, the performance of all the retiring directors The schedule of matters reserved to the board, together with the terms continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate of reference of the board committees, are available on the companys commitment to their roles on the board and the board committees.
There is also a written statement of board responsibilities, C Dyer, who has been a non-executive director since 1997, has been including a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the subject of a rigorous review and the other directors believe that Chief Executive.
During the year the Chairman led the formal evaluation his particular skills and experience continue to make a valuable of the board and its principal committees, and of the performance and contribution to the board.
commitment of each individual director.
P A ODriscoll, having been appointed a director since the 2003 Annual The board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships general meeting, offers herself for election.
with all shareholders, who are kept informed of significant company developments.
The executive directors service contracts are referred to in the Summary directors remuneration report.
All the executive directors service The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of contracts are terminable by the company giving one years notice, the groups system of internal control for the year under review and except that P A ODriscolls service contract provides for an initial the period to 2 June 2004 in line with the Combined Code.
notice period of 18 months from the date of commencement of her employment on 29 March 2004, reducing on a month by month basis Annual general meeting to 12 months by 29 September 2004.
The notice convening the companys Annual general meeting to be held at 12.30 pm on Thursday, 22 July 2004 is contained in the circular sent The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company, to shareholders with this review.
as at 31 March 2004, are shown in the Summary directors remuneration report.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue Charitable donations in office as auditors of the company and a resolution proposing During the year the group donated 291,000 for charitable purposes.
their re-appointment will be submitted to the companys Annual The groups donations for the previous financial year totalled 266,000. general meeting.
Details of other support for local communities are included in the corporate social responsibility report on page 22.
There were no Julian Wild political contributions.
Company Secretary 2 June 2004 28 Summary report of the directors Northern Foods plc Independent auditors statement To the members of Northern Foods plc We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the Summary directors remuneration report, profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow statement.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised Annual review in accordance with applicable UK law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the Report of the directors and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements under section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the summarised Annual review as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
Opinion In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the Report of the directors and the Directors remuneration report of Northern Foods plc for the 53 weeks ended 3 April 2004 and the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors 2 June 2004 Notes An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Northern Foods plc Independent auditors statement 29 Summary directors remuneration report 1 Introduction The future policy therefore describes the approach that will be taken The board has prepared a report in accordance with the requirements in the next financial year, but does not anticipate changes that the of Schedule 7a to the Companies Act 1985, which is prepared to the committee may seek to introduce following the appointment of the accounting reference date of 31 March.
new Chief Executive, P A ODriscoll, in March 2004.
It covers the role and membership of the remuneration committee: The policy for 2004 2005 continues to be to reward employees at the remuneration policy: details of directors remuneration and a the relevant mid-market level with a package designed to align their graph showing the companys total shareholder return performance.
interests with those of shareholders.
In the case of senior executives this A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual includes ensuring that a reasonable proportion of total remuneration is general meeting of the company.
dependent upon individual and company performance.
The policy for directors is described in more detail below.
The full report forms part of the companys Annual report, available on request, and the following information is a summary.
5 Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years 2 Remuneration committee with the expectation that, subject to satisfactory performance, they will The remuneration committee is a committee of the board and the be invited to serve a second three year term.
Where the board is satisfied members during the year were A J Hobson Chairman, P H Blackburn, that it is in the interests of shareholders and that the director remains C Dyer and O G Ni-Chionna.
All were independent non-executive independent, a director may be asked to serve a third three year term.
directors with the exception of P H Blackburn, who assumed the role of Executive Chairman from 4 September 2003 to 28 March 2004, The dates of the Chairmans and current non-executive directors letters following the resignation of A J Stewart as Chief Executive.
There were of engagement, the date on which their appointment took effect and seven meetings during the year and, with the exception of O G Ni-Chionna the current expiry dates are as follows: who missed one meeting, all the members attended all the meetings.
Date of letter of engagement Effective date Expiry date The board believes that a properly constituted remuneration committee P H Blackburn 12 Nov 2001 13 Nov 2001 1 Feb 2005 is essential in establishing a system of remuneration which clearly aligns A J Hobson 10 May 2002 28 May 2002 28 May 2005 the interests of executive directors and senior managers with those of C Dyer 15 Aug 1996 1 Jan 1997 28 May 2005 shareholders: and links incentives for executives and other managers to O G Ni-Chionna 10 May 2002 28 May 2002 28 May 2005 improvements in the absolute performance and relative competitiveness of the company.
The committees terms of reference are published on Fees for the non-executive directors are reviewed annually in September the companys website.
on the recommendation of the executive directors and then approved by the board.
Fees are set with regard to a range of external information No director plays a part in any discussion about his or her remuneration.
There is no other remuneration for The remuneration committee has been formally delegated the authority non-executives, except where the company meets authorised expenses by the board of directors to establish policy in respect of all terms of incurred on Northern Foods activities.
They are not eligible for pension employment for executive directors.
scheme membership and do not participate in any of the companys annual or long term incentive schemes.
3 Advisers to the remuneration committee Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow were appointed by the remuneration 6 Remuneration policy for executive directors committee and have continued to provide advice to the committee on The remuneration committee aims to ensure that the companys matters of remuneration policy during the year.
They are also scheme executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions actuaries to the Northern Foods Pension Scheme and provide advice to to the companys performance.
The committees policy is to offer the company on general remuneration matters.
Linklaters provided legal remuneration packages, which are capable of attracting, retaining advice on share schemes and related matters and they also advise the and motivating executive directors of high calibre, to ensure that the company secretarial function.
The committee appointed DLA to advise company is managed effectively to the benefit of shareholders and will on matters relating to directors contracts.
DLA also provided specific create real increases in shareholder value relative to its industry sector.
employment law advice to the companys legal department.
The committee, in setting the remuneration of the executive directors, also takes account of management remuneration throughout Northern In determining directors remuneration for the year and in considering Foods and continues to aim for a structured and balanced remuneration proposals for the future, the committee consulted A J Stewart, Chief package by looking at each element, as well as the package as a whole.
The secretary to the committee is E Cockburn, Personnel Executive, who also provided information on The committee believes that a significant proportion of the total pay practice in respect of executive directors and senior management.
remuneration of a director should be performance related.
The proportion of potential reward dependent upon company and individual 4 Remuneration policy performance has been increased for 2004 2005.
This is to ensure that The companys remuneration policy is designed to support the the remuneration package for executive directors is aligned even more recruitment, motivation and retention of high calibre employees.
More than 50 per cent of the Remuneration is considered within the context of the sector of Chief Executives total remuneration is dependent upon achieving which the company and its individual businesses are a part and the on-target performance compared to nearly 40 per cent in 2003 2004. geography in which it operates, employing people in the UK and Ireland.
The four main components of the remuneration package for executive The appointment of a new Chief Executive is a significant event directors and senior management in 2004 2005 are: which will, in time, impact on the remuneration policy of the company.
30 Summary directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc basic annual salary, which is set around market median for the sector 6.3 Long term incentive share plans an annual bonus plan, based upon the delivery of annual operating The companys long term incentive policy has been developed to plans for the individual and the company reflect market practice and to provide long term management focus participation in long term incentive plans based upon the performance and motivation.
The remuneration committee believes that a significant of the company element of executive remuneration should be linked to the delivery of pension and other benefits.
above average long term returns for shareholders.
Executives interest in both relative and absolute share price performance is important, The balance of the fixed and variable pay at current value for and this is facilitated by share schemes and the encouragement to 2004 2005, exclusive of pension benefits, is illustrated below.
The build a significant personal shareholding in the company.
table is a theoretical model and assumes that on-target performance is achieved for both short and long term incentives.
The value of the share Long term incentives are provided to executive directors in the form options is calculated using Black Scholes methodology.
The share price of performance shares and share options.
Executive directors and senior used is as at 31 March 2004 and an average option life of six and a half executives have previously been eligible to receive awards under years is assumed.
only one of these arrangements in a single financial year.
To increase flexibility and enable the committee to tailor incentives appropriately, Basic salary as a Annual bonus as a Long term incentives it is proposed to permit the committee to make awards under either proportion of total proportion of total as a proportion of total or both plans in future years, subject to individual limits for each plan, remuneration % remuneration % remuneration % as explained below.
Executive directors will be eligible to receive an M S Christie 61.3 24.5 14.2 annual grant of options and performance shares, provided that the M T Gribbin 61.3 24.5 14.2 combined expected value of awards made under both plans in any P A ODriscoll 46.5 18.6 34.9 one year does not exceed 75 per cent of basic salary.
1 Executive share options 6.1 Salary Participation in the Share option plan is at the discretion of the Salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually, taking into account remuneration committee.
Options will be granted at market value under information from independent sources on salaries for comparable roles the new Share option plan subject to shareholder approval.
The key in the industry and in other selected quoted companies.
Reviews also features of the plan are set out in the circular to shareholders.
The plan reflect the individuals responsibilities, performance and development comprises an Inland Revenue approved part and an unapproved part.
The remuneration committees Under the unapproved part the company will have the right to direct objective is, and will continue to be, to maintain salaries at around that a share settled exercise takes place.
Options will generally be the median level of the relevant employment market.
Salary is the exercisable in the seven year period following the third anniversary of only pensionable remuneration.
grant and before the tenth anniversary, provided the executive remains in employment and subject to satisfaction of the performance condition.
6.2 Annual incentive plan The remuneration committee believes that achieving annual performance Consistent with best practice, it is the committees intention that targets is a high priority for the executive directors.
Incentive targets for grants will continue to be made annually to executive directors in the executive directors are set each year by the committee to take account future.
Such grants will be limited in 2004 2005 to a maximum of one of current business plans.
The committee reviewed annual incentives in 2003 and proposes to The performance condition for awards requires that for grants up to one continue to operate the current plan in 2004 2005.
The target incentive times salary, the real growth in earnings per share is greater than 3 per cent for an executive director is 40 per cent of basic salary for good per annum over the three year performance period before the options performance.
In the case of exceptional results the incentive payment can be exercised.
In the event that the committee makes grants greater may increase up to a maximum of 60 per cent of basic salary.
than one times salary the performance condition for grants in excess of one times salary would require that the real growth in earnings per One quarter of any annual incentive earned will be paid as deferred share is greater than 6 per cent per annum before the options can be shares through the companys Share bonus plan.
If the performance condition is not met at the end of three through the Share bonus plan will be purchased in the market and years, there is no facility for re-testing.
The performance will be assessed held in trust for the executive for a period of three years.
These shares by comparing the adjusted earnings per share growth to the growth will be forfeited should the executive director leave prior to the third in the retail price index over the three year performance period.
During this retention period the participants will be entitled to dividends on the shares and to instruct the trustee how to vote.
The committee believes that the performance condition for the long term incentive arrangements should align the interests of directors The target set for 2004 2005 is made up of financial, business and with those of shareholders.
The committee also believes that real growth individual performance measures.
The financial element includes profit in earnings per share will only be achieved through the delivery of both performance and real growth in earnings per share.
The business element the commercial and financial objectives of the company.
Furthermore, is related to a small number of commercially sensitive strategic objectives executives will only benefit from the plan if real growth in the earnings for each individual and the executive team.
The performance targets per share target is achieved and there is growth in the share price.
selected are considered appropriately stretching by the committee.
Northern Foods plc Summary directors remuneration report 31 Summary directors remuneration report continued 6.3.
2 Performance share plan 6.4 All employee share schemes The plan is designed to align the interests of senior management An approved Savings-related share option scheme is open to all eligible with the interests of shareholders.
The benefits available to senior employees in the UK and overseas and, as with all employee plans, management participating in the plan will only accrue to them if no performance conditions apply.
the company has delivered significant benefits to shareholders over a three year period.
Participation in this plan is at the discretion of 6.5 Benefits the remuneration committee.
In addition to basic salary all the executive directors receive certain benefits, principally a car or car allowance, private medical insurance Under the plan, the committee awards shares in the company to and a pension.
senior management conditional upon the achievement of corporate performance targets over a period of three years.
The number of shares Executive directors are members of the company pension scheme.
conditionally awarded to each participant is determined by the committee.
Their dependants are eligible for dependants pensions and the payment The market value of shares which may be conditionally awarded to of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The pension arrangements a participant in any year will be limited to a maximum of 75 per cent provide for a pension on retirement at age 60 of two thirds basic annual of salary.
salary after 20 or more years eligible service, subject to Inland Revenue rules.
No other payments to directors are pensionable.
Currently the Vesting of the plan is triggered by real growth in earnings per share only director whose benefits under the scheme are restricted by the in excess of 3 per cent per annum over a three year period.
If this Inland Revenue earnings cap is P A ODriscoll.
Benefits above the condition is met the proportion of the award vesting is assessed by Inland Revenue earnings cap will be provided through an unfunded comparing the growth in total shareholder return, in terms of share price unapproved retirement benefits scheme.
None of the other directors growth and dividends, to that of the total shareholder return of the benefits from the company scheme are restricted by current Inland companies comprising the FTSE Food Producers Index, excluding Unilever.
The proportion of the award that will vest is assessed by reference The company policy on pension provision for senior executives will be to a vesting scale.
If the companys performance is ranked below the reviewed following the changes set out in the Governments Budget median, all of the conditional awards will lapse.
Where the company statement of 2004. is placed at the median or above, the maximum number of shares available for vesting will be calculated on a straight line basis with 6.6 Additional directorships 40 per cent of the conditional award being available when the company Executive directors are encouraged to hold a maximum of one is placed at the median and the entire award being available where the non-executive directorship in a listed business in a non-competing company is placed in the top quartile.
Fees for such directorships are retained by the executive director.
The committee believes that the performance condition for the 6.7 Directors contracts Performance share plan should align the interests of directors It is the companys policy that executive directors should have secure with those of shareholders.
The committee selected the relative agreements, providing for a maximum of one years notice.
All executive total shareholder return, compared with companies in the FTSE Food directors, with the exception of P A ODriscoll, have contracts which are Producers Index, excluding Unilever, as a measure that reflects corporate subject to one years notice by either party.
P A ODriscoll, who is proposed performance relative to companies with similar characteristics and for election to the board at the Annual general meeting, has an initial subject to similar market conditions.
Unilever is excluded from the notice period of 18 months, reducing on a month by month basis, to comparator group on the basis of size and product diversity.
12 months after six months service.
The longer initial notice period was agreed by the remuneration committee as appropriate in securing the The companies currently comprising the FTSE Food Producers Index are: recruitment of a high calibre individual as Chief Executive.
Arla Foods UK Northern Foods In the event of early termination, the directors contracts provide Associated British Foods Richmond Foods for compensation up to a maximum of basic salary, company car, Cadbury Schweppes Robert Wiseman Dairies private medical insurance and pension for the notice period.
Cranswick Sygen International Dairy Crest Group Tate & Lyle The details of the contracts are summarised in the table below: Devro Uniq Date of contract Notice period Geest M S Christie 1 April 1996 12 months Shares awarded under the plan are retained in trust on behalf of the M T Gribbin 1 April 2003 12 months participants for a further two years.
During this retention period the P A ODriscoll 29 March 2004 18 months participants will be entitled to dividends on the shares and to instruct H R Sims 1 April 2003 12 months the nominee how to vote.
At the end of the retention period, the shares A J Stewart resigned 3 September 2003 1 April 1996 12 months will be transferred to participants from the trust.
Reducing on a month by month basis to 12 months by 29 September 2004.
32 Summary directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc 7 Performance graph In accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7a to the Companies Act 1985, the graph opposite shows the companys five year performance measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index also measured by total shareholder return.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as an appropriate comparison because it represents a broad equity market index, of which Northern Foods is a constituent.
Total shareholder return measures share price growth with any dividends deemed to be reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date.
The total shareholder return shown is based on daily spot prices.
8 Directors remuneration and pension entitlements 8.1 Emoluments The following table shows an analysis of the salary, benefits and bonus elements of remuneration for the individual directors holding office during the year ended 31 March 2004 Table1.
Pension entitlements are shown in Table 2 and interests under long term incentive arrangements are disclosed in Table 3.
Note 2 Benefits include private medical insurance and company car or car allowance.
The benefits for P A ODriscoll include advice received from New Bridge Street Consultants regarding her terms of appointment prior to joining Northern Foods, at a cost of 7,390.
Note 3 No bonus has been awarded by the remuneration committee in respect of 2003 2004.
A bonus was paid in June 2003 in respect of 2002 2003, and this is included in the total remuneration for 2003.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Note 4 A J Stewart resigned on 3 September 2003.
As part of his contractual entitlement he received compensation for loss of office amounting to a total of 444,640.
This comprises one years salary and the cost of life assurance, permanent health insurance, private medical insurance and car allowance.
In addition to this A J Stewart was entitled to have his pension augmented by an additional one years service as shown in section 8.2.
Also included in the compensation for loss of office are legal costs of 1,500 paid on his behalf in connection with his resignation.
Northern Foods plc Summary directors remuneration report 33 Summary directors remuneration report continued Note 5 P H Blackburn assumed the role of Executive Chairman from 4 September 2003 to 28 March 2004.
In recognition of the additional responsibilities and time commitment to Northern Foods during this period, the board awarded him an additional fee of 37,917.
Note 6 From 1 October 2003 the fee payable to non-executive directors was increased to 31,000 per annum.
No additional fee is payable for committee membership.
An additional fee of 5,000 is payable to the chair of the audit committee.
The fee for the Chairman was increased to 130,000, and for the Deputy Chairman to 46,000, which includes a fee of 5,000 for acting as chair of the remuneration committee.
Note 7 P A ODriscoll was appointed on 29 March 2004.
Her salary on appointment was 470,000 per annum.
This salary will next be reviewed on 1 April 2005.
Benefits include pension, private medical insurance and a company car or car allowance.
P A ODriscoll has elected to receive a non-pensionable salary supplement in lieu of a company car.
As part of the arrangements to recruit P A ODriscoll as Chief Executive, she received two immediate share awards: a deferred share award of 81,453 shares at a price of 159.6p and a grant of 442,950 executive share options at a price of 159.16p.
There are no performance conditions attached to either award.
These are included in section 8.3, Table 3.
Note 8 M S Christie is a non-executive director of Kingston Communications Hull PLC, and received a fee of 30,000 for the year ended 31 March 2004.
8.2 Pension benefits Transfer value of real Increase in Accrued Additional Accrued increase in Transfer Transfer transfer pension at Real pension pension at year less value at value at value less 31 March increase earned 31 March directors 31 March 31 March directors Table 2 2 3 3 2003 in year Inflation in year 2004 contributions 2003 2004 contributions Directors pension entitlements Executive directors M S Christie 97,500 10,309 2,730 13,039 110,539 78,761 819,094 1,001,442 163,098 MTGribbin 62,628 25,399 1,754 27,153 89,781 220,579 514,922 796,045 265,373 HRSims 117,172 15,561 3,281 18,842 136,014 226,054 1,634,345 1,995,050 344,955 A J Stewart resigned 3 September 2003 183,132 25,662 5,128 30,790 213,922 373,967 2,311,452 3,197,134 873,038 Notes to Table 2 Note 1 The company provides executive directors with a pension which is payable at age 60, equal to two thirds of basic salary, reduced where service to age 60 is less than 20 years.
Members contributions are 7 per cent of basic salary each year, subject to Inland Revenue limits.
Death in service cover is a lump sum of four times pensionable earnings.
On the death of a director or a retired director, a spouses pension of 50 per cent would be payable.
Early retirement may be granted with the consent of the company and the trustees of the scheme from age 50 but benefits are reduced by 4 per cent per annum for ages 50 up to 59 years.
Once in payment, pensions are increased in line with inflation up to a ceiling of 3 per cent per annum in respect of pensionable service accrued to 31 March 1997 and inflation up to a ceiling of 5 per cent per annum on service accrued thereafter.
The trustees, with the consent of the company, have discretion to apply such greater increase as they consider appropriate.
Note 2 The accrued pension at 31 March 2004 is the pension which the director would have been entitled to receive based on completed pensionable service to 31 March 2004, payable from normal pension date age 60 and subject to revaluation increases between leaving and retirement.
Note 3 The transfer values are based on the accrued pensions at 31 March 2003 and at 31 March 2004 and are calculated as at 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2004 respectively based on actuarial factors.
The transfer values are the lump sums which would have been paid to another pension scheme for the benefit of the director if they left service at the respective dates.
A transfer value cannot be paid to a director personally.
Note 4 A J Stewart resigned from the company on 3 September 2003 and elected to draw his pension from 1 October 2003 and his entitlements are calculated as at his date of resignation.
The accrued pension figure shown for him is that payable after the augmentation granted to him at retirement but before reduction for early payment.
The transfer value figure shown for him is the transfer value of his reduced early retirement pension prior to commutation and has been calculated on the cash equivalent basis for pensioner members.
The increase in A J Stewarts transfer value of 873,000 comprises approximately 244,000 in respect of the accruing further benefits, 199,000 in respect of his augmentation and the balance is a result of the change in transfer value calculation methods when a member reaches retirement.
34 Summary directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc Note 5 P A ODriscoll joined the pension scheme on 1 April 2004.
Her contributions will be limited to 15 per cent of the Inland Revenue earnings cap.
She is the only executive director affected by the Inland Revenue earnings cap and her pension entitlement above the cap is provided by an unfunded unapproved retirement benefits scheme.
Note 6 There were no contributions by the group to any money purchase pension arrangements in respect of any director.
8.3 Directors interests in shares The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company at 1 April 2003 and 31 March 2004 are detailed below.
Ordinary shares Share options PSP: conditional awards number number number Description 31 Mar 1 Apr 31 Mar 1 Apr 31 Mar 1 Apr 2 1 2 1 2 Table 3 Directors interests in shares of interest 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Executive directors M S Christie Beneficial 97,116 70,628 678,757 478,028 157,674 M T Gribbin Beneficial 431,170 410,688 362,341 204,291 82,604 P A ODriscoll appointed 29 March 2004 Beneficial 81,453 442,950 H R Sims Beneficial 55,772 38,895 335,004 170,771 100,465 A J Stewart resigned 3 September 2003 Beneficial 167,143 126,707 791,460 802,231 240,697 Non-executive directors P H Blackburn Beneficial 40,000 40,000 C Dyer Beneficial 10,000 10,000 A J Hobson Beneficial 8,000 4,000 O G Ni-Chionna Beneficial 15,000 4,000 Notes to Table 3 Note 1 Balance at 1 April 2003 or at date of appointment.
Note 2 Balance at 31 March 2004 or at date of resignation.
A J Stewarts Savings-related share option lapsed on the date of resignation.
Note 3 Shares awarded to A J Stewart under the 2000 performance share plan PSP were transferred to the nominee in July 2003 and will be released in accordance with the rules in July 2005.
Note 4 The remuneration committee granted A J Stewart permission to exercise his outstanding executive share options in accordance with the scheme rules.
Options awarded in 1994, 1995 and 1996 were exercisable at the date of resignation and the committee granted A J Stewart six months in which to exercise.
The performance period for options granted in 2001 and 2002 had not ended and the committee therefore waived the performance condition and allowed A J Stewart 42 months from the date of grant to exercise these outstanding executive share options.
Note 5 Balance includes beneficial interests in ordinary shares, together with interests in a long term incentive plan and the companys previous Profit sharing scheme.
M S Christie, M T Gribbin, H R Sims and A J Stewart qualified, as did all employees with over four years service, to participate in the companys previous Profit sharing scheme.
The companys register of directors interests, which is available for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, contains full details of directors shareholdings, options and PSP awards.
At 31 March 2004, the executive directors of Northern Foods plc as potential beneficiaries of the Northern Foods Employee share ownership trust were interested in 3,114,793 ordinary shares held by the trustee.
By order of the board Anthony Hobson Chairman Remuneration committee 2 June 2004 Northern Foods plc Summary directors remuneration report 35 Consolidated profit and loss account for the 53 weeks ended 3 April 2004 Before Before goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill amortisation amortisation amortisation amortisation and and and and exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items Total items items Total 53 weeks 53 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 2003 m m m m m m Group turnover continuing 1,362.3 1,362.3 1,291.5 1,291.5 acquisitions 63.7 63.7 Total continuing 1,426.0 1,426.0 1,291.5 1,291.5 discontinued 116.1 116.1 129.7 129.7 Group turnover 1,542.1 1,542.1 1,421.2 1,421.2 Cost of sales 1,142.2 1.5 1,143.7 1,023.3 31.9 1,055.2 Gross profit 399.9 1.5 398.4 397.9 31.9 366.0 Net operating expenses 292.9 20.5 313.4 282.3 13.1 295.4 Operating profit continuing 101.3 17.7 83.6 113.0 6.5 106.5 acquisitions 5.1 1.3 3.8 Total continuing 106.4 19.0 87.4 113.0 6.5 106.5 discontinued 0.6 3.0 2.4 2.6 38.5 35.9 Operating profit 107.0 22.0 85.0 115.6 45.0 70.6 Share of associated undertakings 0.4 0.2 0.2 1.4 0.7 0.7 Profit on disposal of businesses 11.6 11.6 54.0 54.0 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 107.4 10.6 96.8 117.0 8.3 125.3 Net interest payable 21.4 21.4 19.5 19.5 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 86.0 10.6 75.4 97.5 8.3 105.8 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 15.5 5.5 10.0 17.9 12.8 5.1 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 70.5 5.1 65.4 79.6 21.1 100.7 Equity dividends 44.6 44.6 44.9 44.9 Retained profit for the year 25.9 5.1 20.8 34.7 21.1 55.8 Basic earnings per ordinary share 13.77p 12.78p 14.81p 18.73p Diluted earnings per ordinary share 12.56p 18.02p Dividend per ordinary share 8.90p 8.70p Average number of shares million 511.8 537.6 Analysis of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 107.0 115.6 Add: associate 0.4 1.4 depreciation 65.9 62.7 EBITDA before exceptional items 173.3 179.7 36 Consolidated profit and loss account Northern Foods plc Consolidated balance sheet as at 3 April 2004 3 April 29 March 2004 2003 m m Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 64.3 41.4 Tangible fixed assets 672.4 670.6 Investments 4.4 21.5 741.1 733.5 Current assets Stocks 78.2 85.1 Debtors 230.0 211.6 Investments 14.9 10.6 Cash at bank and in hand 35.0 33.5 358.1 340.8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 296.9 322.1 Net current assets 61.2 18.7 Total assets less current liabilities 802.3 752.2 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Convertible subordinated bonds 2008 90.6 90.5 Loans and other creditors 281.5 232.5 372.1 323.0 Provisions for liabilities and charges 69.5 63.1 Net assets 360.7 366.1 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 127.1 130.8 Share premium account 60.0 57.4 Revaluation reserve 3.7 3.9 Capital redemption reserve 23.6 19.1 Reserve for treasury shares 10.0 Other reserves 6.7 6.7 Profit and loss account 149.6 148.2 Equity shareholders funds 360.7 366.1 P A ODriscoll Director M S Christie Director 2 June 2004 Northern Foods plc Consolidated balance sheet 37 Consolidated cash flow statement for the 53 weeks ended 3 April 2004 53 weeks 52 weeks 2004 2003 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 154.9 151.6 Returns on investments and servicing of finance net interest paid 20.3 18.6 Taxation 2.1 9.4 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment 75.1 76.0 Net cash inflow from acquisitions and disposals 18.2 140.6 Equity dividends paid 44.9 45.1 Cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing 34.9 143.1 Purchase of own shares 37.1 55.0 Issue of equity share capital net of costs 3.4 0.5 Loans acquired with subsidiary 7.4 Loan notes issued on acquisition of subsidiary 2.0 Exchange adjustments 0.5 1.7 Amortisation of bond and financing costs 0.1 0.2 Movement in net debt in the year 8.8 90.1 Analysis of activities for the 53 weeks ended 3 April 2004 Operating Operating profit before profit before goodwill goodwill Profit on Profit on amortisation amortisation ordinary ordinary and and activities activities Net Net exceptional exceptional before before operating operating Turnover Turnover items items interest interest assets assets 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Area of activity m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Convenience 986.2 952.5 56.1 72.9 44.8 67.8 521.8 522.3 Grocery 376.1 339.0 45.2 40.1 39.0 39.4 213.5 218.1 1,362.3 1,291.5 101.3 113.0 83.8 107.2 735.3 740.4 Acquisitions Convenience 63.7 5.1 3.8 51.4 Total continuing 1,426.0 1,291.5 106.4 113.0 87.6 107.2 786.7 740.4 Discontinued operations Convenience 58.5 61.6 3.8 2.9 4.5 15.0 17.6 11.4 Grocery 57.6 68.1 4.4 5.5 13.7 3.1 3.5 39.0 116.1 129.7 0.6 2.6 9.2 18.1 21.1 50.4 Total group 1,542.1 1,421.2 107.0 115.6 96.8 125.3 807.8 790.8 38 Consolidated cash flow statement, Analysis of activities Northern Foods plc Five year record Profit and loss account 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Turnover Continuing m 1,120.5 1,167.9 1,228.4 1,291.5 1,362.3 Acquisitions m 63.7 Discontinued m 218.6 210.0 230.8 129.7 116.1 Total m 1,339.1 1,377.9 1,459.2 1,421.2 1,542.1 Operating profit Continuing m 104.5 112.1 118.6 113.0 101.3 Acquisitions m 5.1 Discontinued m 12.9 10.8 6.5 2.6 0.6 Total m 117.4 122.9 125.1 115.6 107.0 % of turnover % 8.8 8.9 8.6 8.1 6.9 Share of associated undertakings m 0.2 1.4 0.4 1.4 0.4 Net interest payable m 17.4 20.2 24.5 19.5 21.4 Profit before taxation m 100.2 104.1 101.0 97.5 86.0 Profit after taxation m 74.8 79.2 77.4 79.6 70.5 Exceptional items after taxation m 21.3 5.5 10.1 24.2 1.4 Goodwill amortisation m 1.3 2.1 2.9 3.1 3.7 Profit after taxation FRS 3 m 52.2 82.6 64.4 100.7 65.4 Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p 12.6 13.7 13.9 14.8 13.8 after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p 8.8 14.3 11.6 18.7 12.8 Dividend per share p 7.3 7.7 8.2 8.7 8.9 Dividend cover times 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.6 Asset analysis Operating assets m 637.2 695.2 807.4 790.8 807.8 Other liabilities and provisions m 95.4 96.2 105.5 101.1 114.7 Trading capital employed m 541.8 599.0 701.9 689.7 693.1 Accumulated goodwill written off m 306.1 308.2 308.5 246.6 239.2 Total invested capital m 847.9 907.2 1,010.4 936.3 932.3 Net borrowings m 276.9 324.4 413.7 323.6 332.4 Total equity funds invested m 571.0 582.8 596.7 612.7 599.9 Equity shareholders funds m 264.9 274.6 288.2 366.1 360.7 Net gearing % 104.5 118.1 143.5 88.4 92.2 Interest cover times 6.8 6.2 5.1 6.0 5.0 Capital expenditure m 88.0 78.3 123.6 79.4 71.3 Shareholder value analysis Profit before interest m 117.6 124.3 125.5 117.0 107.4 Attributable taxation m 30.6 31.0 30.9 23.8 21.9 Normalised operating profit after tax NOPAT m 87.0 93.3 94.6 93.2 85.5 Return on average invested capital ROIC % 10.9 10.6 9.9 10.0 9.2 Weighted average cost of capital WACC % 7.6 7.3 7.3 6.3 6.9 Margin over cost of funds % 3.3 3.3 2.6 3.7 2.3 Post-tax return on average equity funds invested % 13.0 13.7 13.1 13.2 11.6 Stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Stated after reducing the 2002 invested capital by 87m to reflect the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and associated assets on 2 April 2002.
The years ending 2000 and 2001 have been restated to comply with FRS 19 Deferred tax.
Northern Foods plc Five year record 39 Company information Investor information Registered office Shareholder services and helpline Beverley House Shareholders who change address, or who want to have their dividends St Stephens Square, Hull HU1 3XG paid directly into their bank account should write to the Registrar, Telephone: 01482 325432 Computershare Investor Services PLC, at The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Facsimile: 01482 226136 Bristol BS99 7NH.
If they require some other information about Website: www.
co. uk their holding, shareholders can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC on the dedicated Northern Foods shareholder Registered in England and Wales information telephone line: 0870 702 0134 or email their enquiry, No 471864 indicating that they are a Northern Foods shareholder, to web.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP Please note the new correspondence address above for Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Merchant bankers N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Shareholder information on the internet The Northern Foods website: www.
co. uk provides access Stockbrokers to shareholder information, including our annual and interim reports, Cazenove & Co Ltd share price and recent share price trends, financial highlights and Hoare Govett Limited results presentations to analysts, as well as a link to the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC at www.
Registrar to the ordinary shareholders Computershare Investor Services PLC The link to our Registrar allows shareholders to access their individual The Pavilions shareholder details.
These details are protected and shareholders Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH will be required to pass an identity check to access their personal Telephone: 0870 702 0134 information.
This link also allows shareholders to download stock Email: web.
co. uk transfer, dividend mandate and change of address forms.
com Electronic proxy voting Principal paying and conversion agent Legislation has now been passed which permits shareholders to appoint and registrar to the convertible bond holders a proxy electronically via the internet and instructions are contained J P Morgan Chase Bank in the circular sent to shareholders with this review.
1 Chaseside, Bournemouth BH7 7DA Dividend mandates Shareholders may choose to have dividends paid electronically into their UK bank or building society account, using the BACS system.
This process ensures that the amount of the dividend is passed directly Financial calendar into their account, as cleared funds, on the date the payment is due.
Confirmation of payment is contained in a dividend tax voucher 2004 which is posted to shareholders registered addresses at the time Final results announcement 2 June of payment.
This voucher should be kept safely for future reference.
Annual report and Annual review issued 18 June Latest date for receipt of forms of proxy 20 July Any shareholder wishing to adopt this method of payment should Annual general meeting 22 July complete a dividend mandate form, which can be found attached Shares quoted ex-dividend 28 July to the last dividend warrant.
Alternatively, a form can be downloaded Record date for final dividend 30 July from the Registrars website or requested by calling the telephone Half-yearly interest payment on helpline on 0870 702 0134. convertible subordinated bonds 8 August Final dividend payment on ordinary shares 27 August Capital gains tax Interim results announcement November The base cost of a Northern Foods ordinary share at 31 March 1982 for capital gains tax purposes is 75.8 pence.
This figure is the adjusted 2005 price to reflect the effect of the rights issue in January 1992, Half-yearly interest payment on the one-for-one capitalisation issue in August of the same year, convertible subordinated bonds 8 February and the demerger of Express Dairies plc on 30 March 1998.
Interim dividend payment on ordinary shares March Financial year end 2 April Any gain arising on disposal may also need to be adjusted to take account of indexation allowances and, since these adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, shareholders are recommended to consult their financial advisers.
40 Company information, Financial calendar, Investor information, Principal operations, Annual report Northern Foods plc Principal operations Northern Foods Head Office Premium Savoury Products Beverley House, St Stephens Square, Hull HU1 3XG Maer Lane, Market Drayton TF9 3AW Telephone: 01482 325432 Telephone: 01630 655095 Operations at Palethorpes, Market Drayton, Technical Services Trafford Park Bakery, Manchester and The Pizza Factory, Nottingham Farnsworth House, Lenton Lane, Nottingham NG7 2NS Telephone: 0115 986 8231 Riverside and Evesham Foods Crossgate Drive, Nottingham NG2 1LW Shared Service Centre Telephone: 0115 986 6462 Trinity Park House, Fox Way, Wakefield WF2 8EE Telephone: 01924 831300 Operations at Nottingham and Evesham Cakes and Puddings Smiths Flour Mills Ashton Road, Oldham OL8 2ND PO Box 3, Eastgate, Worksop S80 1QY Telephone: 0161 622 5200 Telephone: 01909 472216 Operations at Park Cake Bakeries, Oldham and Bolton Operations at Worksop, Langley Mill and Holbeach and Matthew Walker, Heanor Solway Foods Cavaghan & Gray 3 Godwin Road, Earlstrees Industrial Estate, Corby, Northants NN17 4DS Brunel House, Brunel Way, Carlisle CA1 3NQ Telephone: 01536 464400 Telephone: 01228 518200 Operations at Corby and Manton Wood, Worksop Operations at Carlisle, Aberdeen, Grimsby and Hull The Recipe Dish Company Dalepak Foods Drakehouse Crescent, Waterthorpe, Sheffield S20 7JG Dale House, Leeming Bar, Northallerton DL7 9DQ Telephone: 0114 247 6864 Telephone: 01677 424111 Operations at Pennine Foods, Sheffield and Fenland Foods, Grantham Fletchers Kara Grain DOr Walter Hollands Claywheels Lane, Sheffield S6 1LY Baxenden, near Accrington BB5 2SA Telephone: 0114 234 8171 Telephone: 01706 213591 Operations at Fletchers Bakeries, Sheffield, Kara, Manchester and Grain DOr, Harlesden Foxs Biscuits PO Box 10, Batley WF17 5JG Annual report Telephone: 01924 444333 Operations at Batley, Kirkham and Uttoxeter The Northern Foods Annual review 2004 aims to give shareholders a clear and concise overview of the groups business and prospects.
Green Isle Food Group For this reason the review contains a summary financial statement I. D. A.
Industrial Estate, Naas, Co. Kildare, Ireland rather than the full accounts.
Telephone: 00 353 45 848000 Operations at Naas, Boyle, Gurteen, Portumna The Annual review does not contain sufficient information to allow for and Longford as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the group as would be provided by the Northern Foods Annual report 2004.
Gunstones Bakery If you would like to receive a copy of the Annual report, please contact: Stubley Lane, Dronfield, Sheffield S18 6PF Telephone: 01246 414651 Public relations department Northern Foods plc Operations at Dronfield and La Baguette Doree, Barnsley Beverley House St Stephens Square NFT Distribution Hull HU1 3XG Azalea Close, Clover Nook Industrial Estate, Somercotes, Telephone: 01482 325432 Alfreton DE55 4QX Telephone: 01773 523523 Operations throughout the country Design and production:35 Pork Farms Bowyers Queens Drive, Nottingham NG2 1LU Principal photography: Telephone: 0115 986 6541 Directors: Robert Wheeler Food products: Carolyn Barber Operations at Nottingham, Trowbridge, Shaftesbury and People manufacturing: Iain Crockart Binghams, Sheffield Print: St Ives Westerham Press www.
