Accounting policies Basis of accounting Fixed assets The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention except Fixed assets are valued at cost or valuation, less any provision for for the revaluation of properties which is incorporated in the accounts.
impairment, with subsequent additions at cost.
Surpluses arising from the revaluation of properties are taken direct to reserves.
Net revaluation The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting surpluses realised in respect of properties sold are transferred from the standards.
revaluation reserve to retained earnings.
A summary of the more important group accounting policies applied Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed consistently is set out below: assets and the outstanding instalments, exclusive of interest, are included in loans.
Interest is charged against profits in proportion to Basis of consolidation the amount of loan outstanding.
Accounts of all subsidiary undertakings are consolidated for the periods during which they were members of the group.
All principal companies Interest incurred on borrowings to finance construction of fixed assets in the group prepare accounts to 31 March.
Associated undertakings is capitalised up to the date of commissioning.
are dealt with on an equity accounting basis.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on Turnover a straight line basis over the lease term.
Turnover consists of sales to third parties net of trade discounts and excluding VAT and sales related taxes.
Depreciation Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other fixed assets are generally written Foreign currencies off in equal instalments over their expected useful lives as follows: Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of transaction, or if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Buildings 20-50 years Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are expressed in or over the remaining life of the lease if shorter sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, Plant and equipment 5-15 years or if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at an average Motor vehicles 4-10 years rate for the year and the balance sheet translated at the rates ruling at Government grants the balance sheet date.
All exchange differences arising on consolidation Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited to are taken direct to reserves.
Any other exchange differences are dealt deferred income and are released to profit over the expected useful lives with in the profit and loss account.
of the relevant assets by equal annual instalments.
Grants of a revenue nature are credited to income so as to match them with the expenditure Stocks These are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost to which they relate.
includes an addition for production overheads where appropriate.
Taxation Goodwill Current tax, including UK corporation tax and overseas tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and Goodwill, being the excess of the consideration over the fair value of the separable net tangible assets at the date of acquisition of newly acquired laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
businesses or subsidiary undertakings, is recorded as an intangible fixed asset under FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
In the absence Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that of indications to the contrary, purchased goodwill is amortised over have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where 20 years.
Prior to the implementation of FRS 10, the groups policy transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax was to write off all goodwill directly to reserves.
On disposal or closure in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred of a previously acquired business, the attributable amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between previously written off to reserves is included in determining the profit the groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the accounts that or loss on disposal.
arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the accounts.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued, unless by the balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on sale has been recognised in the accounts.
Neither is deferred tax recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Northern Foods plc Accounting policies 29 Accounting policies continued Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a discounted basis to reflect the time value of money over the period between the balance sheet date and the dates on which it is estimated that the underlying timing differences will reverse.
The discount rates used reflect the post-tax yields to maturity that can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity dates and currencies to those of the deferred tax liabilities.
Pension benefits The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss account on a consistent basis over the service lives of employees.
Such costs are calculated by reference to actuarial valuations and variations from such regular costs are spread over the remaining service lives of the current employees.
Associates In the group accounts, investments are accounted for using the equity method.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the groups share of associates profits less losses, while the groups share of net assets of the associates is shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is accounted for in accordance with the policy set out above.
Any unamortised balance of goodwill is included in the carrying value of investments in associates.
Financial instruments Forward foreign exchange contracts and currency options are used to hedge foreign transactional cash flows and accordingly any gains and losses on these contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account when the underlying transaction is settled.
To the extent that a forward foreign exchange contract is not a hedge, any resulting gain or loss is taken to the profit and loss account.
The company does not hedge against translation.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of any interest rate swap agreements used to manage interest rate exposures are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the period of the contracts.
30 Accounting policies Northern Foods plc
