Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and sixth Annual entitlements that would otherwise arise or with legal or General Meeting of Northgate plc will be held at Norflex House, practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, Allington Way, Darlington at 11.30 am on 8 September 2004 for the any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any following purposes: territory or otherwise howsoever : 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and audited accounts b the allotment of equity securities in connection with any of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2004. employees share scheme approved by the members in general meeting: and 2.
To declare a final dividend of 10.6p per Ordinary share.
c the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraphs a 3.
To approve the Report on Remuneration for the financial year and b above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal ended 30 April 2004 set out on pages 12 to 15 of the 2004 amount of 160,000.
and shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General 4.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 or, if earlier, fifteen Company.
months after the passing of this resolution except that the 5.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements remuneration of the auditors.
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors 6.
To re-elect Mr J Astrand as a Director.
may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
To re-elect Mr P Rogerson as a Director.
To re-elect Mr R Williams, who has attained the age of 70, as a 13.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised Director.
Special notice to propose this resolution has been to make market purchases as defined in Section 163, received.
Companies Act 1985 of its Ordinary shares of 5p each provided that: 9.
To re-elect Mr F M Waring as a Director.
a the Company does not purchase under this authority more than As special business to consider, and if thought fit, to pass the 6,400,000 Ordinary shares: following resolutions: numbers 10, 11 and 15 are to be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and numbers 12, 13 and 14 b the Company does not pay less than 5p for each share: as Special Resolutions.
c the Company does not pay more for each share than 5% over 10.
That the authorised share capital of the Company be increased the average of the middle market price of the Ordinary shares from 4,650,000 to 4,900,000 by the creation of 5,000,000 new according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Ordinary shares of 5p each.
Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares 11.
That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and concerned: unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to exercise all the powers of the Company d this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 unless such Section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,048,283 authority is renewed prior to such time: and during the period commencing on the date of the passing of e the Company may agree before the aforesaid authority this Resolution and expiring on 8 September 2009 both dates terminates to purchase Ordinary shares where the purchase inclusive but so that this authority shall allow the Company to will or may be executed either wholly or in part after the make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority authority terminates.
The Company may complete such a which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted purchase even though the authority has terminated.
after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offers or 14.
That the Regulations contained in the document submitted to agreements.
the Meeting marked A and signed by the Chairman of the Meeting for the purposes of identification be and the same are 12.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 11, the Directors be hereby adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the to the exclusion of and in substitution for all existing Articles of Companies Act 1985 the Act, to allot equity securities within Association of the Company.
the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for cash, pursuant to the authority given in accordance with Section 80 of the Act by 15.
That the rules of the All Employee Share Scheme be amended Resolution 11 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any by reducing the specified retirement age for the purposes of the such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: scheme from age 65 to age 55. a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of securities, open for acceptance for a period fixed by the By Order of the Board Directors, by way of rights to holders of Ordinary shares and such other equity securities of the Company as the Directors D. Henderson may determine on the register on a fixed record date in Secretary proportion to their respective holdings of such securities or in 5 July 2004 accordance with the rights attached thereto but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may Registered Office: deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional Norflex House Allington Way Darlington DL1 4DY NOTES 1.
Only the holders of Ordinary shares registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 6 September 2004 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote instead of him.
A proxy so appointed need not also be a member.
A three-way proxy card for this purpose is enclosed.
44 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
