Our Products NORFLEX flexible risk-free fleet hire The risk-free and flexible alternative to contract hire or buying vehicles.
NORFLEX also allows you to invest your time and your companys money on your core business activity while you let us look after your fleet.
com ONE Call Fleet Rental Nationwide fleet rental for companies that have large daily rental needs.
Why deal with lots of different hire companies when ONE Call Fleet Rental can deal with all your rental needs anywhere in the UK.
com Vehicle Insight Web-based vehicle tracking system.
Increase the efficiency of your fleet, save money and deliver better service to your customers by seeing what your vehicles have been up to.
com Van in a Box Designed for fleet departments that operate an owner-driver scheme.
Van in a Box gives your drivers an easy way to hire vehicles on NORFLEX with an optional monthly premium for insurance cover.
com Fleet Transformer Transform the vehicles you own into a rental fleet and give your business an injection of cash.
You get all the benefits of NORFLEX plus money to invest in your business.
com Fleet Insurance Solutions We have taken the hassle out of finding insurance by giving you a direct link to the Worlds biggest supplier of insurance services.
One call is all it takes to get a tailored policy specific to your business needs.
This service is exclusive to our customers but can cover all of your fleet.
com Norfleet Parts Using our buying power we have negotiated great deals for customers on vehicle parts, tyres and thousands of consumables from tools to fluorescent jackets, all direct from the manufacturer.
co. uk 46 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Notes Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 47 Find out the latest news and information about our business at www.
com We have hire sites throughout the UK as well as one site in Dublin.
Dialling 0870 607 77 17 connects you to your nearest site.
For a quick and easy way to rent a van go to www.
com To find out more about our non-rental products go to www.
com Or you can ring or email for an information pack about all our products.
com Annual report and accounts 2004 Designed and produced by The Roundhouse Newcastle upon Tyne.
Annual report and accounts 2004 NORFLEX House Allington Way Darlington DL1 4DY Telephone: 01325 467 558 Fax: 01325 363204 Commercial vehicles for business www.
