The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint Basis of accounting ventures are translated into sterling using average exchange rates for The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable the financial year and variances compared with the exchange rate at United Kingdom accounting standards under the historical cost the balance sheet date are dealt with through reserves.
All other convention as modified by the revaluation of freehold and long monetary assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currencies are leasehold properties.
translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance The Group adopted the transitional provisions of FRS15 in respect of sheet date with resulting exchange gains and losses being taken to the valuation of properties.
The valuation of previously revalued the profit and loss account.
properties will not be updated.
Details of the latest revaluations are Deferred taxation shown in Note 11.
In accordance with FRS19, Deferred Tax, full provision is made on Basis of consolidation timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the The consolidated financial statements comprise the accounts of the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of Company and all subsidiary undertakings made up to 30 April.
Joint items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods ventures are accounted for by the gross equity method.
The results of different from those in which they are included in financial subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are included from their statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising respective dates of acquisition.
from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to Goodwill sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint Goodwill representing the excess of the purchase consideration over ventures where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
the fair value of net assets acquired on acquisition of subsidiary Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as undertakings and joint ventures is capitalised as an intangible asset more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and in the year of acquisition.
It is amortised through the profit and loss liabilities are not discounted.
account over the Directors estimate of its useful life of up to a Leasing maximum of 20 years.
As permitted by FRS10, goodwill arising on As lessee: Acquisitions of fixed assets funded through finance leases acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 was eliminated against reserves and hire purchase agreements are capitalised and depreciated in as a matter of accounting policy and has not been reinstated to accordance with Group policies.
Future obligations under these leases intangible assets from reserves, but will be charged to the profit and and agreements are included in creditors.
Interest costs payable are loss account on subsequent disposal of the businesses to which it charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the lease so as relates.
to produce a constant rate of return on the outstanding balance.
All Tangible fixed assets: depreciation other leases are operating leases and the payments made are charged Freehold land and property under construction are not depreciated.
to the profit and loss account evenly over the period of the lease.
Other tangible fixed assets are depreciated over their estimated useful As lessor: Motor vehicles and equipment leased to customers under lives on a straight line basis as follows: operating leases are included within fixed assets.
Income from such Freehold buildings over 50 years leases is taken to the profit and loss account evenly over the period of Leasehold property over 50 years or over the term of the the operating lease agreements.
lease, whichever is the shorter Turnover Plant, equipment and fittings over 3 to 10 years Turnover represents the revenue resulting from Group operating Vehicles for hire over 3 to 6 years activities, excluding value added tax.
These comprise the hire of Motor vehicles over 3 years vehicles, the sale of used vehicles and the supply of related goods Investments and services.
Current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Pensions Shares in Group undertakings and other unlisted fixed asset The Group only operates defined contribution type pension investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Contributions in respect of these arrangements are Fixed asset investments - own shares charged to the profit and loss account as they become payable by the The Companys shares held by Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Group.
Pension contributions in respect of one of these arrangements Limited as trustees of the Goode Durrant Employees Trust are are held in trustee administered funds independent of the Groups included in the consolidated balance sheet as a fixed asset finances.
investment until such time as the interest in the shares is transferred The other arrangements are group personal pension plans.
The shares are held as a hedge against the Groups Financial instruments and derivatives obligations under its various share schemes and, accordingly, the Derivative instruments utilised by the Group are interest rate caps, shares purchased are recorded at cost.
The cost of meeting these collars and swaps.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used obligations is charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic for hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an existing basis over the period of service in respect of which options are underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk granted.
Stocks Interest rate caps and collars The option premia are recognised on Goods for resale and finished goods are stated at the lower of cost the Group balance sheet as Prepayments and accrued income.
The and net realisable value.
option premia are taken to net interest payable spread evenly over the Foreign currency lifetime of the cap or where applicable the relevant collar.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures are Interest rate swaps Interest payments and receipts relating to translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance swaps are accrued with net interest.
They are not revalued to fair sheet date.
The effect of variances in exchange rates between the value or shown in the Group balance sheet at the year end.
beginning and the end of the financial year on the net investment in subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures is dealt with through 28 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
