New Articles of Association Set out below is a summary of the principal changes proposed to be 6.7 Article 104: borrowing powers.
Provision has been made for the made to the Articles of Association of the Company.
References below treatment of treasury shares and employee share schemes, which are to articles in the proposed revised draft unless otherwise stated.
will now be deducted for the purposes of calculating the adjusted capital and reserves.
The limit on the directors powers to incur 1 Uncertificated shares CREST borrowings has been increased from five to six times the value of adjusted capital and reserves in order to accommodate this.
The Under the Listing Rules securities of listed companies must be increased flexibility may also prove useful when the International eligible to be held in CREST.
The main relevant articles are Articles Financial Reporting Standards come into effect in 2005 as they are 10, 17.2, 30, 33.2, and 46. expected to make the figures in balance sheets more fluid.
2 Treasury Shares 6.8 Old Article 109: local management.
This article has been deleted Changes have been included to reflect the fact that a company as the matter is covered by Article 98.3. can now hold its own shares in treasury.
Examples include Articles 6.9 Article 110: participation by conference call.
This article has been 12.1, 42.1 b, 48, 104 and 135. updated to take into account developments in telecommunications 3 Electronic communications and to include a statement that, where a meeting is held by telephone, the meeting is deemed to have taken place where the As electronic communications with members are now permitted, largest group of directors is assembled or, if no group is the Articles have been updated following the drafting of the ascertainable, where the chairman is.
Employee share option 4 Provisions covered by the Companies Act 1985 schemes often provide for the option price to be adjusted Certain provisions have been deleted as they repeat the downwards to reflect the discount element in rights issues, and Companies Act.
Examples include the removal of the reference this may result in the option price being reduced below nominal to issuing shares at a discount in old Articles 6, and old Articles value.
To avoid shares being issued at a discount on the exercise 11.3, 135. of options this article provides that directors may capitalise reserves in favour of option holders to cover the difference 5 Outdated or unnecessary provisions between the option price and nominal value.
Certain provisions have been deleted as being out of date or unnecessary.
Examples include old Articles 11.2, 42, 55 and 148 and references to Depositaries.
In certain others, the language has been updated, for example Articles 46, 84 and 95.
6 Principal specific changes 6.1 Article 14.1: rights to certificates.
This article has been updated to enable the Company to carry out various forms of mechanical authentication of share certificates.
6.2 Article 70: directors may supply proxy cards.
Wording has been added to provide that the accidental omission to provide such an appointment of proxy to a member shall not invalidate the meeting to which it relates.
The upper limit on the number of directors has been removed.
It is fairly usual for a listed plcs Articles not to set a maximum number of directors.
Changes have been made to replace the old one-third retiring by rotation rule with the Combined Code requirement that all directors should be required to re-submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and that non-executive directors may serve longer than nine years three three-year terms subject to annual re-election.
6.5 Article 84: vacation of office by directors.
A new Article 84.2 has been added, being the common provision that directors shall not be required to leave office at seventy years of age.
The cap on directors fees has been increased to 400,000 in the aggregate.
It is an ABI guideline that a listed plcs Articles of Association should contain a limit on directors fees.
Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 43
