88 P&O Annual Report 2004 Information for stockholders Information for stockholders Stockholder enquiries change of address For enquiries relating to holdings of stock of the Company such as the loss of a stock certicate, dividend payments, or to notify a change of address, please write to the Companys registrar: Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH.
Stockholder information on the internet The Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, has introduced a facility where holders of P&O stock are able to access details of their shareholding over the internet subject to passing an identity check.
You can access this service on their website at: www.
com Payment of dividends to mandated accounts Stockholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form obtainable from the Companys registrar, as above.
Tax vouchers are sent to the stockholders registered address under this arrangement unless requested otherwise.
A copy of the mandate form may also be obtained from Computershares website.
Amalgamation of your stockholding If you have received more than one copy of this annual report, there may be more than one account in your name on the P&O register.
If you would like to amalgamate your holdings, please write to the Companys registrar, as above, giving details of the accounts concerned and instructions on how they should be amalgamated.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available that gives stockholders the opportunity to use their cash dividend to buy P&O deferred stock through a special low-cost dealing arrangement.
The DRIP is run and administered by the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, from whom copies of the DRIP brochure and application form are obtainable, as above.
You may also request details by contacting Computershare by email at web.
co. uk Individual Savings Account The Company has made arrangements with Halifax Share Dealing Limited, to provide stockholders with a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account ISA for P&O stock only.
A brochure on the P&O ISA may be obtained by writing to the Company Secretarys ofce, 79 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5EJ or by email at secretariat@pogroup.
Halifax Share Dealing Limited is regulated by the Financial Services Authority, a member of the London Stock Exchange and an Inland Revenue approved ISA manager.
Low cost share dealing service A special low cost share dealing service is available through Hoare Govett Limited for private investors who wish to buy or sell holdings of P&O stock in a simple cost effective way.
Details may be obtained by contacting the Company Secretarys ofce, as above.
A low cost telephone dealing service has also been arranged with Stocktrade.
For information on this service please call 0845 601 0995, quoting reference LOW CO133.
Travel concessions for eligible stockholders Eligible holders of 5.5 per cent concessionary stock are entitled under the formal P&O Concessionary Fare Scheme to travel at reduced fares on the ferry services operated by P&O Ferries between Dover Calais and Portsmouth Le Havre and services operated by P&O Irish Sea between Cairnryan Larne.
In addition, the directors have decided that during 2005 eligible holders of deferred stock, preferred stock or 5.5 per cent concessionary stock may travel at reduced fares which may be varied or withdrawn at any time on the services between Portsmouth Bilbao and between Hull Zeebrugge Rotterdam operated by P&O Ferries and services operated by P&O Irish Sea between Troon Larne.
Details of the P&O Concessionary Fare Scheme and the concessions available at the directors discretion may be obtained by contacting the Company Secretarys ofce, as above.
Electronic communication If you would like to receive notication of the availability of certain documents for example the Annual Report and Accounts on the P&O website you can register on-line via the Companys website, www.
com, by selecting Electronic Communication either via Quick links or the Investor section.
To register on-line you will need to have your 11 character stockholder reference number which is located on your stock certicate or dividend tax voucher.
If you have any queries please call the Computershare helpdesk on 0870 889 3109.
Printed on material manufactured in a plant with advanced environmental protection standards, using a 100 per cent chlorine-free bleached pulp Designed by Emperor Design Thanks to all P&O employees who helped with the production and organisation of the photography Printed by greenaways, a member of the ormolu group.
com The Peninsular and Oriental Steam 79 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5EJ Incorporated by Royal Charter with Navigation Company United Kingdom limited liability, company number Z73 Telephone: 44 0 20 7930 4343
