Accounting policies for the 18 months ended 30 September 2004 Basis of consolidation and presentation of financial information Research and development The group accounts comprise the accounts of the company and its Research and development expenditure is written off as incurred, subsidiary undertakings at 30 September 2004.
The group profit and except that development expenditure incurred on an individual project loss account and cash flow statement include the results and cash is carried forward when its future recoverability can reasonably be flows of businesses acquired from the date on which control passed.
Any expenditure carried forward is amortised in Acquisitions are accounted for under the acquisition method.
line with the expected future sales from the related project.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention Stocks and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable These are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
includes an addition for production overheads where appropriate.
The issue of UITF38 and a revised UITF17 has resulted in a change Deferred taxation in accounting policy for ESOP trusts and a consequent prior period Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have adjustment note 14. originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation A separate profit and loss account dealing only with the results of the to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax with the company has not been presented, as permitted by section 230 of the following exceptions: Companies Act 1985. i Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation and Revenue recognition similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, and gains on disposal of Revenue is recognised once title to the relevant goods has passed to fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the customer.
the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, Goodwill on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more In accordance with FRS10, purchased goodwill is capitalised and likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement amortised over its useful economic life.
This ranges from three to 20 assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold.
As permitted by FRS10, purchased goodwill previously written off to reserves has not been reinstated.
Goodwill previously written off to ii Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors reserves is included in the calculation of profits and losses on disposals.
consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences Leases can be deducted.
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are depreciated over their useful economic lives and the Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that outstanding instalments, exclusive of interest, are included in borrowings.
are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, Interest is charged against profits in proportion to the amount of loan based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the balance sheet date.
profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Pension benefits Depreciation The group operates three defined benefit schemes, which require Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other fixed assets are generally written contributions to be made to separately administered funds.
The costs off in equal instalments over their expected useful lives as follows: of providing pensions are charged to the profit and loss account on a consistent basis over the service lives of employees.
Such costs are Buildings 20 50 years calculated by reference to actuarial valuations and variations from such or over the remaining life regular costs are spread over the remaining service lives of the current of the lease if shorter employees.
Differences between the amounts funded and the amounts Plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings 3 15 years charged in the profit and loss account are treated as either provisions Motor vehicles 3 14 years or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Government grants Share options Government grants in respect of capital expenditure are credited to The consideration paid for the companys own shares held by the deferred income and are released to profit over the expected useful Employee Share Option Plan is deducted from shareholders funds in lives of the relevant assets by equal annual instalments.
On unconditional vesting of these options the revenue nature are credited to income so as to match them with the amount is transferred to the profit and loss reserves.
expenditure to which they relate.
38 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are expressed in sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments A variety of financial instruments is used to manage the financial risks arising from the business and financing activities of the group.
There is no trading activity in financial instruments.
The group has taken advantage of the dispensation of not disclosing short term debtors and creditors as financial instruments.
A discussion of how the financial risks are managed is included in the operating and financial review.
Financial instruments are accounted for as follows: Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the groups exposure to movements in interest rates.
The interest payable or receivable on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity: Forward rate agreements are used to hedge short term interest rate exposures.
The interest payable or receivable is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings: Cross-currency interest rate swaps currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency borrowings.
The future currency exchange within such contracts is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and any unrealised gain or loss is matched with that on the underlying liability.
To the extent that such swaps and the underlying cash flows are identical no change is made to the original sterling value of the liability: Forward exchange contracts and short dated swaps are used to hedge expected currency cash flows.
Gains and losses on these transactions are either deferred until the transaction to which they relate occurs or, in the event that maturity occurs before the actual cash flow, at the time of maturity of the contract swap.
39 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
