18PHS Group plc Board of Directors Robert David Mackenzie Non-executive Chairman Age 51 Member of the Audit committee Member of the Nomination committee Member of the Remuneration committee Robert Mackenzie joined the Board of PHS as non-executive Chairman in September 2000.
Prior to joining PHS, he was Chairman and Chief Executive of National Parking Corporation Limited, and Chairman of Greenflag Limited.
He was also Group Finance Director of BET plc from 1991 to 1994 and Group Finance Director of Storehouse plc and Chief Executive of Retail Operations from 1989 to 1990.
From 1986 to 1989 he was a Financial Comptroller for Hanson plc.
Peter James Cohen Chief Executive Age 51 Member of the Nomination committee Peter Cohen joined PHS as Chief Executive in April 1998.
Prior to joining PHS he held the position of Chief Executive of Holt Lloyd Group Limited, a manufacturer and marketer of consumer care products, from 1991 to 1998.
He was President of Power Conversion Inc. Crompton Eternacell from 1989 to 1991 and before that he was Managing Director of Crompton Vidor Limited and Hawker Siddeley Dynamics Engineering.
19PHS Group plc John Fletcher Skidmore Finance Director Age 37 John Skidmore joined the Board of PHS as Finance Director in October 2002.
Before this, he held the post of Group Financial Controller for six years.
Before joining PHS, he was an audit manager with Deloitte & Touche, where he had previously qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
Jan Gunnar Astrand Non-executive director Age 57 Member of the Audit committee Member of the Nomination committee Member of the Remuneration committee Jan Astrand joined the Board of PHS as a non-executive director in June 2001.
He is also Chairman of Car Park Group AB in Sweden and a non-executive director of Northgate plc.
Prior to this, he was President and Chief Executive of Axus International Inc. from 1994 to 1999.
From 1989 to 1994 he was Finance Director for Hertz Europe Ltd.
Between 1986 and 1988, he worked for Commodore International Ltd initially as Vice President of Finance for Europe and ultimately as Chief Financial Officer.
John Murray Allan Non-executive director Age 55 Member of the Audit committee Member of the Nomination committee Member of the Remuneration committee John Allan joined the Board of PHS as a non-executive director in June 2001 and is Chief Executive of Exel plc.
He joined Ocean Group plc, as Chief Executive, in September 1994 and in May 2000 Ocean Group and Exel formerly NFC merged to form Exel plc.
Prior to joining Ocean Group, he was a main board Director of BET plc.
He is a member of the CBI Presidents Committee, a member of the International Advisory Committee to the Singapore Economic Development Board, Vice Chairman of Freight Forwarding Europe Trade Association and President of the Freight Transport Association.
20 PHS Group plc Financial statements 21 Directors report 23 Corporate social responsibility 24 Remuneration report 27 Corporate governance 30 Statement of Directors responsibilities 31 Independent auditors report 32 Consolidated profit and loss account 32 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 33 Balance sheets 34 Consolidated cash flow statement 35 Notes to the financial statements 53 Five-year summary 54 Notice of meeting 56 Shareholder information 21 PHS Group plc Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2004 The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Principal activity and business review The Group is engaged in the provision of workplace services on customers premises.
There are five core business areas that have been operating throughout the year: washroom services, dust mat services, live and replica plants, point of use water dispensers and specialist crate rental.
The vast majority of customers have rental, service and maintenance contracts.
A review of the Groups business and discussion of likely future developments is provided in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Financial review on pages 2 to 17.
Results and dividends Operating profit for the year was 50.1m 2003: 41.2m.
The result for the year after taxation was a profit of 30.4m 2003: 25.4m.
The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 1.48p per ordinary share 2003: 0.38p and paid an interim dividend of 0.22p per ordinary share 2003: 0.17p on 27 January 2004.
Subject to approval by shareholders of the final dividend, a total dividend of 1.70p 2003: 0.55p per ordinary share will be paid in respect of the year at a total cost of 8.8m 2003: 2.8m.
If approved, the Group will pay the final dividend on 1 September 2004 to all shareholders registered on 6 August 2004.
Post balance sheet events Details of all material post balance sheet events are given in note 31 to these financial statements.
Directors The Directors of the Company at 31 March 2004 are listed on page 56.
Details of Directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in shares, share options and debentures are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 24 to 26.
No Director was due to offer himself for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting but, in order to achieve orderly succession, R D Mackenzie and J M Allan are submitting themselves for re-election one year early.
Biographical details of each Director are given on pages 18 and 19.
Details of the role of the Board, including the role of non-executive directors, are given in the Corporate governance statement on pages 27 to 29.
Policy on the payment of creditors It is Group policy to comply with terms of payment negotiated with suppliers.
Where payment terms are not negotiated, the Group endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
The Company does not trade and consequently cannot disclose an average creditors payment period.
The Groups average payment period in the year for the continuing businesses was 51 days 2003: 47 days.
Substantial shareholdings As at 20 May 2004, the Group had been notified under Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 of the following substantial shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of PHS Group plc.
Name of shareholder Interest in ordinary share capital FMR Corp Fidelity International Limited 15.00% Axa Investment Managers UK Limited 5.14% Legal & General Investment Management 3.36% Authority to make purchases of own shares The Board recognises that under certain circumstances, it may be in the best interests of the Company to make purchases of its own shares.
With this in mind, the Board received shareholder approval at the previous Annual General Meeting held on 11 July 2003 to make market purchases of its own shares up to a maximum of 51,704,739 shares being 10% of the Companys ordinary share capital at the date of passing the resolution within a specified price range.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, due to be held on 23 July 2004.
No purchases have been made or are planned under this authority.
It is the intention to introduce a special resolution at this next Annual General Meeting to extend this authority until the end of the following Annual General Meeting.
This authority will relate to a maximum of 51,705,908 shares being 10% of the Companys ordinary share capital on similar price restrictions.
The Board is requesting this authority to allow them to respond rapidly to changes in market conditions where it becomes beneficial to shareholders generally to engage in market purchases of the Companys shares.
22 PHS Group plc Directors report continued Employees It is Group policy to ensure that employees are provided with information on all matters of concern to them.
Accordingly, appropriate steps are taken to ensure that employees or their representatives are aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups performance, are consulted wherever necessary and are encouraged generally to be involved in the Groups overall performance.
It is established Group policy to offer the same opportunities to disabled people as to all others in matters of recruitment and career advancement, provided they have the abilities to perform the tasks required, with or without training, and to provide retraining where necessary in cases when disability arises during employment with the Group.
Research and development Technical development is considered an important part of the Groups ongoing advancement.
Resources are employed in the development of new products or improving existing products to continuously improve the range and quality that we offer our customers.
All such expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company in accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985 will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board John Skidmore Company Secretary 14 June 2004 23 PHS Group plc Corporate social responsibility The Board recognises its environmental, health & safety and employment responsibilities and devotes significant resources towards monitoring compliance with existing standards and improving those standards.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for these areas at Board level, ensuring that the Groups policies are upheld and providing the necessary resources.
In-house resource The Group employs six permanent staff in its environmental, health and safety and systems monitoring department whose primary responsibility is to monitor performance in respect of the Groups standards.
During the year, one member of the department obtained the National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health NEBOSH national diploma and became a member of the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health IOSH and another member obtained a dangerous goods safety advisors qualification.
In addition, the department prepares due diligence reports on potential acquisitions and carries out surveys of new acquisitions in order to identify any areas where they may need assistance integrating their operations with that of the Group.
During the year, the department assessed the impact of forthcoming legislation in order to ensure the Groups working practices remain in line with the latest legislative requirements.
Specific items of legislation included the Amended Control of Asbestos at Work Regulations 2002, the Carriage of Dangerous Goods and Use of Transportable Pressure Equipment Regulations 2004 and the European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road ADR 2003.
Also, senior members of the department continued to forge links with organisations such as the Freight Transport Association FTA, Institute of Waste Management IWM, City & Guilds C&G and the Sanitary & Medical Disposal Services Association SMDSA in order to ensure that the Group is consulted over changes affecting our operations and is in a position to offer constructive advice and opinion on behalf of the Group and our sector of the waste industry.
Environmental The Group is committed to operating in a responsible manner with regard to the environment.
The Groups environmental policy is displayed on the intranet and is available to stakeholders on request.
More than 60% of the Groups business is certified to ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental management systems.
External audits are required to maintain ISO 14001 certification.
During the year, the environmental, health and safety department audited waste management procedures and practices throughout the Group.
These audits also included carrying out waste audits of contractors who collect waste on behalf of the Group and of the disposal sites used to ensure they comply with current best practice and legislative requirements.
Health & Safety The Group is committed to providing for the health, safety and welfare of all its employees.
Every effort is made to ensure that the requirements of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and all relevant regulations and codes of practice are complied with at all times.
The Groups health and safety policy is displayed on the intranet and is available to stakeholders on request.
The Group has well-established health and safety systems.
Health and safety training is a routine part of employee and management development and there is a comprehensive audit process covering safety management and risk control.
Three IOSH Managing Safely courses were held during the year with places offered to managers from all divisions.
In addition, four specialist courses were held for managers and employees who handle special wastes.
During the year, after extensive consultation with relevant employees, a major initiative was launched across the Group aimed at reducing motor accidents, thereby improving the health and safety of the Groups employees who drive vehicles every day as part of their job.
The new initiative lays down guidelines on minimum recruitment standards, individual driver assessment, comprehensive training and improved accident reporting and investigation.
Employees The Group is committed to achieving equal opportunities and to complying with the race relations, sex discrimination, disability discrimination and rehabilitation of offenders acts.
In addition, employees are encouraged to train and develop their careers.
In this way, we aim to offer employees and job applicants the opportunity to benefit from fair employment, without regard to their sex, marital status, race, religion, age or disability.
The Group is also committed to ensuring that any allegations of malpractice within the organisation are taken extremely seriously and has therefore developed a procedure whereby employees can bring any such allegations to the attention of management, or if necessary, make a public disclosure in confidence and without fear of reprisals.
24 PHS Group plc Remuneration report Compliance This report has been prepared in accordance and complies with the Directors Remuneration Regulations 2002 and the Combined Code issued in 1998, appended to the Listing Rules, as issued by the Financial Services Authority.
The regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the regulations.
This report is unaudited with the exception of the two sections headed Directors remuneration and Directors interests in shares and share options.
This report also includes the additional information that forms part of the revised Combined Code issued in July 2003, which will apply to the Companys next Annual Report.
Remuneration committee The Remuneration committee is responsible for developing the Groups remuneration policy and determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors.
The committee also recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
It is composed of all three non-executive directors and throughout the year to 31 March 2004 was chaired by J G Astrand.
The committee met five times during the year.
With one exception, where an additional meeting was called at short notice that Mr Allan was unable to attend, all members of the committee attended each meeting.
No member of the committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
No Director plays a part in discussions about his own remuneration.
Remuneration policy Executive directors remuneration The committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost after giving full consideration to compliance with the matters set out in the Combined Code.
Where appropriate, reference is made to independent and authoritative surveys.
The committees policy is to provide salary, bonuses, pension and other benefits to executive directors and other key senior management that are competitive with regard to those on offer at other comparable companies.
The packages provided are intended to attract, retain and motivate each individual to meet the Groups objectives and so enhance shareholder value.
The committee will always have regard that it should avoid paying more than necessary for this purpose.
A strong link between the level of remuneration and individual performance against agreed targets is maintained by including a performance-related element within the remuneration package.
The bonus can vary between nil and 50% of each executive directors basic salary, so giving them considerable incentive to perform at the highest levels for the ultimate benefit of the shareholders.
Employee remuneration Most employees, particularly sales and service staff, are incentivised by reference to their individual performance within the framework of the Groups overall performance.
All permanent employees are eligible for the savings related share option scheme and, in addition, the Company operates an executive share option scheme for employees who may, from time to time, be selected to participate by the Remuneration committee.
Non-executive directors remuneration The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter specifically reserved for the collective decision of the Board, subject to the limitations set out in the Articles of Association.
The total remuneration for non-executive directors may not exceed 400,000 per annum.
Executive directors remuneration and service contracts Both executive directors have a rolling service agreement that is terminable by 12 months notice from either party.
Other than for reasons of gross misconduct, if the Company gives less than 12 months notice to terminate either service agreement, the Company is liable for the payment of a sum equal to the Directors salary and benefits at the time of termination in lieu of the required period of notice.
Alternatively, the Company may continue to provide the benefits during the period.
Any bonus entitlement in respect of any period of notice shall be calculated as though the Director had remained employed during the period of notice and shall be paid at such time as though the Director had remained employed.
Executive directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The present remuneration package for executive directors comprises: Basic salary this is reviewed and determined annually by the Remuneration committee.
Consideration is given to basic salaries paid by comparable companies and the performance of the executive.
Annual incentive bonus each executive director is contractually entitled to an annual bonus in respect of each financial year.
The bonus can vary between nil and 50% of the Directors basic annual salary dependent upon the audited profit and cash generation achieved by the Group against targets predetermined by the Board.
Other benefits these comprise health insurance, provision of a company car or car allowance and payment for private fuel.
Pensions Both executive directors are members of the Groups defined contribution pension scheme to which the Group makes regular contributions of 15% of each Directors basic salary.
Until 1 November 2003, the contributions were made at 15% of pensionable earnings basic salary and annual incentive bonus in the previous financial year.
25 PHS Group plc Non-executive directors remuneration and terms of appointment R D Mackenzie was appointed for an initial term of three years from 18 September 2000.
His letter of appointment states that his appointment would continue thereafter unless and until terminated by not less than three months written notice from either the Company or Mr Mackenzie.
The other non-executive directors were appointed for an initial term of three years from 6 June 2001, subject to their earlier termination by the Company giving six months written notice or by either Director at any time.
There is no entitlement to compensation for termination of the appointment for any reason, other than payment in lieu of notice, for any of the three non-executive directors.
Following an evaluation of the performance of the Board and that of its committees and individual Directors during the year as discussed in more detail in the corporate governance report on pages 27 to 29, the Board decided that Mr Mackenzies appointment should continue and the appointments of Mr Allan and Mr Astrand should be extended until 5 June 2007 subject to, in each case, a continuation of the previously-agreed notice period.
The remuneration of all three non-executive directors was determined by the Board in 2001, commensurate with their time commitment and the responsibilities of their roles, and remained fixed for the duration of the initial three-year term.
There is no present intention to revise their remuneration.
Neither the Chairman nor other non-executive directors participate in the Groups pension scheme or bonus plans, nor are they entitled to any benefits from the Company other than their agreed fees and reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in carrying out their duties.
Directors remuneration Audited section The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the years ended 31 March are disclosed below: 2004 2003 Basic salary Annual Other 2004 2003 Pension Pension or fees bonus benefits Total Total payments payments 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-executive Chairman R D Mackenzie 75 75 75 Executive directors P J Cohen 223 38 14 275 219 33 29 J F Skidmore 122 19 11 152 61 16 4 K Bland 56 9 Non-executive directors J G Astrand 60 60 60 J M Allan 60 60 60 540 57 25 622 531 49 42 Highest paid Director.
The emoluments for J F Skidmore for 2003 relate to the period from his appointment to the Board on 1 October 2002 following the retirement of K Bland on that date.
J M Allan applied three years annual fees paid in advance to purchase ordinary shares at flotation.
If J M Allan ceases to be a Director before the expiry of the period for which his fees were paid in advance, a specified portion of the ordinary shares for which he subscribed using these annual fees will be liable to be repurchased for an aggregate price of 1.
None of the Directors has waived any part of their emoluments during the year.
Pension contributions for executive directors up to the Inland Revenue cap were made to the Groups defined contribution scheme.
Payments in excess of this cap are paid as a taxable emolument but disclosed as pension contributions in the above table because they are paid on the express basis and understanding that payment is for the purpose of pension contributions.
Executive share option scheme The Company operates a discretionary executive share option scheme, which is only available to employees and executive directors who may, from time to time, be selected by the Remuneration committee to participate.
The committee regard this scheme as the principal long-term incentive for the Groups senior management.
The scheme is divided into two sections, Section A and Section B, under which options can be granted.
Section B is an Inland Revenue approved scheme and grants to individuals are subject to the limit imposed by the Finance Act 1996 on the value of shares placed under option, currently 30,000.
Any grants in excess of this limit are made under the unapproved Section A.
No eligible employee is entitled as of right to participate in the discretionary scheme.
No payment is required on the grant of an option, which is always at the market value on the date of the grant.
An option over 150,600 ordinary shares was granted to J F Skidmore on 10 December 2003 at an exercise price of 83p subject to a performance condition.
Further details of this grant are set out in the section entitled Directors interests in shares and share options below.
Details of options granted to date under this scheme are given in note 21 to the financial statements.
Savings related share option scheme The PHS Group savings related share option scheme is eligible to all employees, including executive directors.
When a contract is initiated, options are granted to acquire the number of shares that the total savings will buy when the contract matures three years into the future.
Employees make fixed monthly contributions of up to 250 per month over the three-year contractual period.
At the end of this period, employees have the right to buy shares in the Company at the price fixed at the time of the option grant.
The price per share at which options may be granted is not less than 80% of the mid-market price on the last day of dealing before the offer date.
26 PHS Group plc Remuneration report continued Directors interests in shares and share options Audited section Shareholdings The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below.
Interest in ordinary shares of the Company 31 March 2004 31 March 2003 Number Number R D Mackenzie 2,045,452 2,045,452 P J Cohen 5,167,000 7,290,000 J F Skidmore 373,750 506,250 J G Astrand 60,000 60,000 J M Allan 134,756 134,756 Share options Details of share options granted to executive directors under the executive share option and savings related share option schemes described above are provided below: At At Exercise Exercisable Expiry 1 April 2003 Granted 31 March 2004 price from date Discretionary share options J F Skidmore 150,600 150,600 83p Dec 2006 Dec 2013 Savings related share options P J Cohen 13,644 13,644 71p Dec 2004 Jun 2005 J F Skidmore 14,230 14,230 65p Sep 2006 Mar 2007 The option granted to J F Skidmore under the discretionary share option scheme is subject to satisfaction of a performance condition.
Earnings per share of the Group over a three-year period must exceed the increase in the Retail Prices Index over the same three-year period by 6% for the option to be exercisable over 100% of the shares.
In the event that the increase in earnings per share exceeds the Retail Prices Index by between 3% and 6%, the option is exercisable over a percentage of the shares pro rata on a straight-line basis between 1% and 100%.
Details of the market price of these shares are given in note 21 to the financial statements.
There has been no change in the interests stated between 31 March 2004 and the date on which these financial statements were signed on behalf of the Board.
Total shareholder return The performance graph below illustrates the total shareholder return TSR delivered by the Group since its admittance to the London Stock Exchange in June 2001, in comparison with the TSR delivered by the FTSE 350 Support Services Index.
TSR is the measure of the returns provided by the Group to its shareholders, reflecting movements in share price and assuming reinvestment of dividends when paid.
After due consideration and taking into account the size of the Group and its mix of activities, the Board decided that the FTSE 350 Support Services Index is the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Group should be measured because it is an index of similar size companies operating in the same business sector as the Group.
The graph demonstrates that since its flotation in June 2001, the Group has significantly outperformed the FTSE 350 Support Services Index.
140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 27 06 01 27 09 01 27 12 01 27 03 02 27 06 02 27 09 02 27 12 02 27 03 03 27 06 03 27 09 03 27 12 03 27 03 04 PHS Group FTSE 350 Support Services Source: Datastream Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 June 2004 and signed on its behalf by: J F Skidmore Company Secretary 27 PHS Group plc Corporate governance Combined code The Group is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance and acting with the utmost integrity in all dealings.
This statement, together with the Remuneration report on pages 24 to 26, explains the manner in which the Group has applied the provisions of the Combined Code for Corporate Governance issued in 1998 the code in order to meet its commitments.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2004, the Group has complied with the code.
During the year, the Board reviewed the additional requirements of the revised Combined Code which was issued in July 2003 the revised Combined Code and anticipates that the Company will comply with all of the requirements of the revised Combined Code throughout the year to 31 March 2005, which is the first year that it will apply.
Board of Directors The Board comprises three non-executive including the Chairman who is responsible for running the Board and two executive directors including the Chief Executive who is responsible for running the Groups business.
The biographies of all Directors are detailed on pages 18 and 19, and demonstrate that the Board contains sufficient experience and ability to provide effective leadership and offers assurance that no individual can dominate the Boards decision taking.
All three non-executive directors bring a range of business, finance and other relevant experience to the Group.
Each makes a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board by applying his judgement and bringing his experience to bear in all decision-making processes.
The Board considers both J G Astrand and J M Allan to be independent of management.
J G Astrand has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company.
The Board operates by formulating strategy, acquiring and allocating overall resources, setting policies that guide and constrain management and setting the direction of the Group.
The executive management runs the business, which involves shorter-term operational matters of finance, production and market management, monitoring performance throughout the business and taking decisions consistent with agreed strategies.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its collective decision.
This schedule includes any question regarding the appointment or removal of any Director or Company Secretary: the composition and terms of reference of each of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit committees: strategic policy: approval of all material acquisitions and divestments: and approval of annual budgets and forecasts.
The Board has agreed a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
On appointment, all Directors are provided with appropriate information and an induction programme designed to give them appropriate training to properly fulfil their roles.
This programme includes meetings with, and presentations from, appropriate senior management together with visits to a number of operational depots.
Additional training is arranged at any time when a Director requires it to assist in the proper discharge of his duties.
During the year, the Board undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors using an external facilitator.
Each Director was asked a series of questions and a report was prepared which summarised the responses.
The Board considered the report collectively and reached agreement concerning the recommendations contained in the report.
The Articles of Association provide that any Director appointed by the Board must retire from office, but may submit him or herself for re-election, at the first subsequent Annual General Meeting.
In addition, any Director who, at the date of the notice convening any Annual General Meeting, will have held office for more than 30 months since appointment, or reappointment at a General Meeting, must retire from office at that Annual General Meeting, but may submit him or herself for re-election.
The Board met eight times during the year with all five Directors attending each meeting.
These scheduled meetings were supplemented by frequent contact at other times and additional strategic discussions.
All Directors have the right to seek external professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the expense of the Group and have unfettered access to the advice of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that all applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
One week before every Board meeting, each Director is supplied with an agenda and supporting papers that provide the appropriate information required for him to properly discharge his duties.
Included within these papers are detailed monthly accounts, which include in-depth reports on the performance of each operating division.
The accounts are supplemented by written reports from the executive directors and appropriate financial analysis.
Other papers presented deal with the cash flow position of the Group, proposals regarding future potential acquisitions, risk management and corporate governance matters.
The papers are intended to provide the Board with all the information they require.
Where this is not the case, senior management is always available to answer any further questions that may arise.
The Board constantly reviews the quality, nature and presentation of information provided and requests changes that they believe will offer more appropriate information.
The Group has appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions against its Directors.
The three principal committees of the Board are the Remuneration committee, Audit committee and Nomination committee.
Each committee has its own written terms of reference that have been approved by the Board and these are available on request from the Company Secretary.
No one other than the respective Chairman and other members is entitled to be present at any meeting of these committees, but others may attend at the invitation of the committee.
Remuneration committee The composition and work of the Remuneration committee is set out in the Remuneration report on pages 24 to 26.
28 PHS Group plc Corporate governance continued Nomination committee The Nomination committee comprises the three non-executive directors and Chief Executive and is chaired by J M Allan.
A minimum of one meeting per financial year is held with additional meetings called as and when requested by any member.
The committee met once during the year with all four members attending the meeting.
The committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and the management of Board succession.
The committees terms of reference include consideration of the size and structure of the Board: the appointment and duties of executive directors and their continuation or not in service: the appointment and reappointment of non-executive directors: and whether Directors retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association should be put forward for re-election.
The Nomination committee continuously reviews the composition of the Board to ensure that it contains the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to properly discharge its duties.
Audit committee The Audit committee comprises all three non-executive directors and is chaired by R D Mackenzie.
Meetings are routinely held twice annually with additional meetings held at the request of either the Chairman or external auditors.
The committee met three times during the year with all three members attending each meeting.
The committee assists the Board in determining whether it is properly discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate governance, including matters pertaining to the Groups internal control systems.
The committees terms of reference include reviewing the scope and results of the external audit: its cost-effectiveness: and the auditors independence and objectivity.
The committee also keeps under review the volume of non-audit services provided in order to balance the objectivity of the auditors with value for money.
The committee has the authority to invite executive directors and representatives of the external auditors to meetings as necessary.
Access to the advice of the external auditors without the presence of the executive directors is available.
The Audit committee also reviews the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval.
The review will consider, but is not limited to, the accounting policies adopted: areas where major judgements have been exercised: and compliance with accounting standards, stock exchange, legal and other regulatory requirements.
The committee will also consider any matters arising from any audit, whether communicated verbally or in writing, and give due consideration to any action recommended.
As part of the terms of reference of the Audit committee, it is responsible for monitoring managements commitment to establishing and operating a sound system of internal control.
It is also responsible for reviewing, at least annually, the effectiveness of the internal control system including financial, operational, compliance controls and risk management.
During the year, the need for an internal audit function within the Group was discussed.
The committee concluded that: the scale, diversity and complexity of the Groups activities did not warrant the appointment of a dedicated internal auditor on cost benefit grounds: there were other functions, both within the Group or contracted to third parties, that provided assurance and advice covering specialist areas such as health and safety, regulatory and legal compliance and environmental issues: and there was already in existence a comprehensive system of monitoring processes which provided assurance to the Board that the system of internal control was functioning as intended.
After careful consideration and taking into account the foregoing reasons, the Board agreed the committees recommendation that the present practice of not having a dedicated internal auditor should be maintained for the present time.
It was agreed, however, that the position should be kept under review.
During the year, the Audit committee satisfied itself that there were arrangements in place by which an employee may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters and for the independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Internal control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control is defined in the code as all controls, including financial, operational, compliance, and risk management.
The Directors procedures for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control have been in place throughout the year and to the date of approval of the financial statements.
These procedures included a series of meetings with senior management in each of the operational, commercial, accounting, IT and business development functions aimed at identifying business risks, their likelihood of occurrence, potential impact and control measures in place to address those risks.
The findings of these meetings were communicated to the Board through written reports that were reviewed and discussed at their meetings throughout the year.
Any such system of internal control can, however, only provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in place during the year.
The key features of the Groups system of internal control which have been established are as follows: Identification and evaluation of the key risks applicable to each area of business is monitored and assessed on a continuous basis at executive committee and Board level.
This is supplemented by the annual process of preparing business plans and detailed budgets, and the half-year budget review process: The production of accurate and timely financial management information reported against budget and forecast to the Board: The control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties: Regular executive committee meetings of the Groups most senior managers and executive directors: The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment: Capital expenditure is restricted to amounts approved in the annual budget and half-year budget review process.
Any significant over-spend can only occur after approval from the Board: Detailed written proposals are submitted to the Board before any decision is made on authorising investment in acquisitions.
Due diligence reviews are always performed by the Groups own staff along with extensive use of external advisers: and Regular reviews of the systems and procedures in place at each remote location are performed.
29 PHS Group plc Independence of auditors  LLP are the Groups auditors.
Both the Audit committee and the auditors themselves have safeguards in place to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the auditors is maintained.
In addition to the annual appointment of the auditors by the shareholders, the Audit committee regularly reviews their performance and fees charged to ensure that the Group continues to receive value for money.
Non-audit work in respect of taxation and the due diligence process before significant acquisitions is also carried out by  LLP, as the Board believes that it is in the Groups best interests to make use of their extensive knowledge of the business.
The Board continuously monitors the quality and volume of this work and will, where appropriate, use other accounting firms or other appropriately qualified organisations.
Details of the fees for both audit and non-audit work paid to auditors are given in note 3 to the financial statements.
Shareholder communication Communication with shareholders, based on a mutual understanding of objectives, is given a high priority by the Group with designated members of the Board meeting regularly with institutional investors, analysts and other parties.
Reports of such meetings and copies of analysts reports are provided to the Board and significant matters of concern raised by shareholders are reported to the Board formally at their meetings.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, it is Group policy to respond to any written requests from shareholders throughout the year.
It is the Groups policy to propose a separate resolution on each substantially different issue at the Annual General Meeting.
The level of proxies lodged, together with the number for and against each resolution, will be announced once dealt with by a show of hands at the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board will make every effort to ensure that the respective chairs of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting and available to take relevant questions from the floor.
co. uk, provides additional information for both shareholders and the general public.
Going concern The Board has reviewed and approved the Groups budget for the financial year ending 31 March 2005 and projections for future years.
After taking account of the cash flow implications, including proposed capital expenditure and considering the availability of borrowing facilities, the Board has concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the accounts of both the Group and Company on the going concern basis.
30 PHS Group plc Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
31 PHS Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of PHS Group plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses, consolidated balance sheet, company balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors Remuneration report the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Directors Remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, Financial review, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration report, Directors report, Corporate social responsibility statement and Corporate governance statement.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and auditable part of the Directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: The financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Those parts of the Directors Remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Cardiff 14 June 2004 32 PHS Group plc Consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 Note 000 000 Turnover 2 165,262 139,902 Operating profit 2, 3 50,057 41,216 Interest receivable and similar income 17 Interest payable and similar charges 5 6,619 5,182 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 43,455 36,034 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 6 13,101 10,632 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 30,354 25,402 Dividends paid and proposed 7 8,790 2,844 Retained profit for the year 22 21,564 22,558 Earnings per share 8 Basic earnings per share 5.87p 4.91p Diluted earnings per share 5.87p 4.91p All results are in respect of continuing operations, which include the results of acquisitions made during the year.
It is not practicable to determine the post-acquisition turnover and operating profit of businesses acquired during the year because the trade and assets of the companies or businesses acquired are incorporated into the existing trade and assets of the Group, therefore their post-acquisition results are not separately identifiable.
An indication of post-acquisition turnover is given in note 2.
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses for the year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Profit for the financial year 30,354 25,402 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investment 103 Currency translation differences on forward foreign exchange contract hedge 90 Total recognised gains and losses for the year 30,341 25,402 33 PHS Group plc Balance sheets at 31 March 2004 Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 Note 000 000 000 000 Fixed assets Intangible assets 9 407,072 345,238 Tangible assets 10 39,152 31,832 Investments 11 340,670 324,288 446,224 377,070 340,670 324,288 Current assets Stocks 12 5,463 3,827 Debtors 13 45,260 38,555 44,039 14,458 Cash 6,701 5,938 22,524 19,099 57,424 48,320 66,563 33,557 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 14 170,155 29,588 144,589 8,699 Net current liabilities assets 112,731 18,732 78,026 24,858 Total assets less current liabilities 333,493 395,802 262,644 349,146 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 15 332 91,450 91,323 Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 249 249 Accruals and deferred income 19 45,124 37,874 Net assets 2 288,037 266,478 262,395 257,574 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 21 51,706 51,705 51,706 51,705 Share premium account 22 187,732 187,725 187,732 187,725 Profit and loss account 22 48,599 27,048 22,957 18,144 Equity shareholders funds 23 288,037 266,478 262,395 257,574 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 14 June 2004 and were signed on its behalf by: P J Cohen J F Skidmore Director Director 34 PHS Group plc Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 Note 000 000 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities Operating profit 50,057 41,216 Depreciation 10,476 8,016 Loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets 305 99 Increase in stocks 612 776 Increase in debtors 3,450 2,589 Increase in creditors 988 853 Net cash inflow from operating activities 57,764 46,819 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 24 5,416 5,052 Taxation paid 10,566 7,544 Capital expenditure 24 12,833 10,090 Acquisitions 24 63,983 45,894 Equity dividends paid 3,103 2,379 Cash outflow before financing 38,137 24,140 Financing 24 38,908 20,660 Increase Decrease in cash 25 771 3,480 35 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004 1 Principal accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom and, except for the treatment of the amortisation of goodwill described below, comply with the Companies Act 1985.
An explanation of this departure from the requirements of the Companies Act is given below.
All existing accounting policies have been reviewed in detail during the year and are considered to be the most appropriate to the circumstances of both the Company and the Group.
No change to any accounting policy has been made in the year.
A summary of the more important accounting policies is set out below.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements have been consolidated under the acquisition accounting method.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from presenting its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The result of the Company is shown in note 23.
Income recognition Turnover comprises the invoiced value of goods sold which is recognised on despatch and the rentals receivable on operating leases as described further below, exclusive of value added tax.
Operating leases i As lessor Assets on rental and service contracts are capitalised and depreciated as noted below.
Rentals receivable are credited to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis, over the lease term.
Income is recognised from the day of inception of the lease.
Amounts received in advance are shown in the balance sheet as deferred income.
ii As lessee Lease payments are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
Tangible fixed assets The cost of tangible fixed assets is their purchase cost, together with any incidental expenses that are directly attributable to the acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal annual rates of depreciation used are as follows: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold property 50 years Short leasehold property Over the lease term Equipment at customers premises 1 to 10 years Other equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years Tooling 4 years Goodwill Purchased goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill in respect of acquisitions made is shown as an asset and, in accordance with FRS 10 Intangible assets and goodwill, each acquisition is assessed to determine the useful economic life of the business and the goodwill.
Where it is considered that the value of the business or its goodwill does have a measurable economic life, any related goodwill would be amortised through the profit and loss account by equal instalments over such useful economic life.
In this context, the useful economic life of the businesses and goodwill are reviewed annually and revised where appropriate.
In the event that the useful economic life does not exceed 20 years, goodwill would be subject to an impairment review at the end of the year of acquisition and at any other time when the Directors believe that impairment may have occurred.
However, FRS 10 permits goodwill to be assigned an indefinite life and consequently not be amortised, provided that the durability of the related businesses can be demonstrated to justify such a life.
The Board believes the businesses acquired to date meet the durability criteria set out in the standard.
The durability of our business and the businesses that we have acquired is characterised by factors such as the stability of the sector, low technology involved, long lifespan of services and products, high sustainable demand and high barriers to entry.
The nature of our acquired businesses, the markets in which they and we operate and the synergy benefits that occur from adding the acquired business coverage to those of the existing Group, mean that the consolidated goodwill should have an indefinite economic life providing that we continue to run the business as effectively as we have in the past.
In these special circumstances, it is the economic consequences of acquisition that drive value rather than individually what has been acquired.
As a result, there is no individual aspect of the acquisition which will diminish over time.
Therefore, arbitrarily amortising goodwill would not reflect the economics of the business.
Where the goodwill is assigned a useful economic life that is in excess of 20 years or is indefinite, the value of the relevant businesses and goodwill is assessed for impairment against carrying values on an annual basis in accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill.
Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which it arises.
The Group has acquired a number of businesses in the year as detailed in note 28.
The Directors have reviewed these acquisitions and consider that these businesses and the associated goodwill have an indefinite useful economic life and the goodwill is therefore not being amortised.
This treatment represents a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, which does not permit an indefinite useful economic life.
The departure is, however, in the opinion of the Directors, necessary for the financial statements to give a true and fair view in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Was the goodwill to be amortised over a 20-year period, the profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2004 would be reduced by 19,719,000 2003: 16,739,000, with a corresponding reduction in reserves and intangible assets.
The cumulative amount that would have been written off against reserves is 73,443,000.
36 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which takes account of any provision necessary to recognise damage and obsolescence.
Cost is based on a FIFO measure and includes labour, materials, transport and directly attributable overheads.
Financial liabilities and issue costs All borrowings are initially stated at the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Issue costs are charged to the profit and loss account together with the coupon, as finance costs, on a constant yield basis over the term of the borrowings, or over a shorter period where the lender can require earlier payment.
Finance leases Leasing agreements including equivalent hire purchase or finance agreements which transfer substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are included in fixed assets and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance leases.
The lease rentals are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligations and the interest element is charged against profit in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the useful economic lives of the equivalent owned assets or period of lease if shorter.
Deferred taxation A deferred tax liability is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Government grants Grants in respect of expenditure on fixed assets are included as deferred income and recognised in the profit and loss account over the expected useful economic lives of the related assets.
Revenue based grants are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period to which they relate.
Foreign exchange i Overseas subsidiaries The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The assets and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the results for the year and retranslation of opening net assets are recorded as movements on reserves.
ii Forward contracts Forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge net investment in overseas subsidiaries are valued at the closing rate of exchange and resulting gains or losses are offset against the corresponding gains or losses arising on the net investment in the overseas subsidiaries as movements on reserves.
iii Foreign currency transactions Transactions expressed in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Pension costs The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme for eligible employees.
Pension costs represent contributions payable to the scheme for the year.
37 PHS Group plc 2 Turnover and segmental reporting An analysis of the Groups turnover is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Rental operating leases 142,013 122,777 Sales 23,249 17,125 165,262 139,902 An analysis of the Groups turnover and operating profit, by class of business, is set out below: Year ended 31 March 2004 Year ended 31 March 2003 Operating Operating Turnover profit Profit Turnover profit Profit 000 000 margin 000 000 margin PHS Washrooms: Washroom services 120,176 54,286 45.2% 99,459 46,006 46.3% PHS Treadsmart: Dust mat services 15,999 5,139 32.1% 14,419 3,940 27.3% PHS Greenleaf: Live and replica plants 12,496 2,105 16.8% 13,183 2,010 15.2% PHS Waterlogic: Point of use water dispensers 9,926 3,685 37.1% 7,078 2,580 36.5% Teacrate: Crate rental 6,665 1,918 28.8% 5,763 1,782 30.9% 165,262 67,133 40.6% 139,902 56,318 40.3% Central costs Normal 16,172 14,261 Exceptional 904 841 165,262 50,057 30.3% 139,902 41,216 29.5% Exceptional central costs mainly comprise expenditure on the integration of acquisitions into the Groups existing operations including redundancy costs, payments for termination of leases and other restructuring costs.
As explained on the face of the profit and loss account, continuing operations include the results of acquisitions made in the year because it is not practicable to determine the post-acquisition turnover and operating profit of businesses acquired in the year.
However, in respect of turnover alone, the Directors believe that an indication of the contribution from acquisitions in the year can be given, based upon pre-acquisition turnover.
Acquisitions in the year have contributed approximately 15.0m, whereas acquisitions made in the previous year contributed approximately 12.3m to the turnover for that year, including the 5.8m contributed by the acquisition of Teacrate as disclosed in the previous years financial statements.
An analysis of the Groups net assets at 31 March, by class of business, is set out below: 2004 2003 000 000 PHS Washrooms: Washroom services 354,993 293,922 PHS Treadsmart: Dust mat services 15,359 14,469 PHS Greenleaf: Live and replica plants 16,804 16,701 PHS Waterlogic: Point of use water dispensers 22,437 15,422 Teacrate: Crate rental 17,164 17,730 426,757 358,244 Less: Group net debt 126,298 87,916 Less: Proposed dividends 7,652 1,965 Less: Taxation 4,770 1,885 288,037 266,478 Turnover and operating profit are principally earned and sourced, and net assets principally located, in the UK and Ireland.
38 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Net operating expenses and operating profit An analysis of the Groups net operating expenses is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Change in stocks 612 755 Own work capitalised 2,368 2,402 Raw materials and consumables 16,214 12,388 Employee costs note 4 52,804 46,588 Depreciation 10,476 8,016 Other operating charges 37,467 33,341 115,205 98,686 Included within depreciation above is 283,000 2003: 100,000 of depreciation on assets held under hire purchase agreements.
Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Rentals under operating leases: Land and buildings 1,797 1,426 Plant and machinery 4,433 4,891 Other assets 1 6 Property rents receivable 87 92 Grant income 160 Loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets 305 99 Amounts paid to auditors in the year are set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Audit fee 109 93 Taxation advice 61 33 Review of interim report 21 20 Other business assurance 15 206 146 Fees capitalised within goodwill relating to financial due diligence 238 336 444 482 39 PHS Group plc 4 Directors and employees Directors emoluments for the year comprise: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Salaries for management services 402 313 Fees 195 195 Other emoluments including benefits in kind 25 23 622 531 Contributions to money purchase pension schemes 49 42 671 573 Further details of Directors emoluments and of the highest paid Director are given in the Remuneration report on pages 24 to 26 which forms part of these financial statements.
The average monthly number of persons including executive directors employed by the Group during the year was: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 Number Number Administration 532 460 Sales 514 447 Service 1,609 1,445 2,655 2,352 Employee costs for the above persons were: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Wages and salaries 47,464 42,063 Social security costs 4,519 3,734 Other pension costs 821 791 52,804 46,588 5 Interest payable and similar charges Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 On bank loans and overdrafts 5,769 4,805 Amortisation of issue costs 763 223 On acquisition loan notes 17 120 On hire purchase agreements 70 34 6,619 5,182 Included within interest paid in the year ended 31 March 2004 was accelerated amortisation of issue costs of 428,000 due to the early refinancing of the Groups borrowings as described further in note 16.
Bank interest payable and receivable have been netted off to reflect the substance of the Groups banking arrangements.
40 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Tax on profit on ordinary activities a Analysis of charge in the year The taxation charge is made up as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Current tax UK corporation tax on profits for the year 12,300 9,583 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 195 135 Overseas tax 142 12,247 9,448 Deferred tax UK 948 1,184 Overseas 94 13,101 10,632 b Factors affecting the current tax charge for the year The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences are explained below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Profit before taxation 43,455 36,034 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 13,037 10,810 Effects of: Temporary differences between taxable and accounting profit: Accelerated capital allowances 122 964 Losses 357 183 Other short-term timing differences 200 39 Lower tax rates on overseas profits 39 Prior year credit 195 135 Permanent differences 123 41 Current tax charge for the year note 6 a 12,247 9,448 The deferred tax asset liability is made up as follows: Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Accelerated depreciation over capital allowances 1,618 1,982 Short-term timing differences 259 Capital gains revaluations 249 249 249 249 Tax losses carried forward 1,005 1,362 2,115 3,095 249 249 The movement on the deferred tax asset liability is as follows: Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 At 1 April 3,095 4,801 249 249 Transferred from acquired companies 126 522 Profit and loss account 854 1,184 At 31 March 2,115 3,095 249 249 41 PHS Group plc 7 Dividends paid and proposed Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Equity Ordinary shares of 10p each Interim dividends paid: 0.22p 2003: 0.17p per ordinary share 1,138 879 Final dividends proposed: 1.48p 2003: 0.38p per ordinary share 7,652 1,965 8,790 2,844 8 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated in accordance with FRS 14 Earnings per share.
The data used in the calculations is as follows: Basic EPS Dilutions Diluted EPS Year ended 31 March 2004 Profit after taxation 000 30,354 30,354 Weighted average number of shares in issue 000 shares 517,052 262 517,314 Earnings per share 5.87p 5.87p Year ended 31 March 2003 Profit after taxation 000 25,402 25,402 Weighted average number of shares in issue 000 shares 517,047 180 517,227 Earnings per share 4.91p 4.91p The adjustments between the basic and diluted EPS reflect the grant of share options under certain of the Groups share option schemes, further details of which are provided in note 21.
9 Intangible fixed assets Purchased Goodwill Group 000 Cost and net book value At 1 April 2003 345,238 Adjustments to prior year provisional fair values 1,303 Additions 60,621 Translation differences 90 At 31 March 2004 407,072 Additions represent the purchase of goodwill associated with the Groups acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and unincorporated businesses during the year, as detailed in note 28.
Goodwill arising on a number of the acquisitions made in the year can be determined only on a provisional basis because the fair values of the purchase consideration and net assets acquired cannot yet be finally determined.
Adjustments to prior year provisional fair values comprise revisions to the fair values of both the net assets acquired and consideration paid recognised at 31 March 2003.
The revisions to the fair values of the net assets relate to alignment of accounting policies including fixed asset recognition, depreciation, lessor accounting for operating leases, accounting for deferred income and provision against irrecoverable debtor balances for acquisitions undertaken in the latter part of the year to 31 March 2003 where final information was not available at the time of preparing the financial statements for that year.
During the year ended 31 March 2004, the Group acquired a number of businesses.
The Directors have reviewed these acquisitions along with the Groups underlying business and in accordance with the policy described in note 1, consider that these businesses and associated goodwill have an indefinite useful economic life and consequently the goodwill is not being amortised.
The net book value of assets held under hire purchase agreements is 1,058,000 2003: 280,000.
11 Investments Shares in Loans to subsidiary subsidiary undertakings undertakings Total Company 000 000 000 Cost and net book value At 1 April 2003 200 324,088 324,288 Additions 16,382 16,382 At 31 March 2004 200 340,470 340,670 The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are set out below.
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2004 will be annexed to the Companys next Annual Return.
Name Class of capital Proportion of shares held Principal activity Personnel Hygiene Services Limited 1 ordinary shares 100% indirect Provision of workplace services at customers premises PHS Western Limited 1 ordinary shares 100% direct Intermediate holding company PHS All Clear Limited 1 ordinary shares 100% indirect Waste collection and disposal All Water Systems Limited F1.269738 ordinary shares 100% indirect Sale, rental and maintenance of point of use water dispensers PHS Holdings Limited 1 ordinary shares 100% direct Intermediate holding company 1 preference shares 100% indirect PHS Investments Limited 10p deferred shares 100% indirect Intermediate holding company $0.05 ordinary shares 100% indirect Teacrate plc 1 ordinary shares 100% indirect Intermediate holding company Teacrate Rentals Limited 10p ordinary shares 100% indirect Specialist crate rental All Water Systems Limited is incorporated and registered in the Republic of Ireland.
Other companies are incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England & Wales.
43 PHS Group plc 12 Stocks 2004 2003 Group 000 000 Raw materials 307 272 Finished goods 5,156 3,555 5,463 3,827 13 Debtors Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Falling due within one year: Trade debtors 39,802 32,445 Amounts owed by group undertakings 44,026 14,366 Other debtors 748 463 92 Recoverable deferred tax 250 300 Prepayments and accrued income 2,595 2,452 13 43,395 35,660 44,039 14,458 Falling due after more than one year: Recoverable deferred tax 1,865 2,795 Prepayments and accrued income 100 45,260 38,555 44,039 14,458 14 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Bank and other borrowings note 16 132,667 2,404 132,280 Trade creditors 8,418 7,050 Amounts owed to group undertakings 963 3,806 Dividends payable 7,652 1,965 7,652 1,965 Other creditors 7,123 7,126 835 227 Corporation tax 6,885 4,980 2,859 2,701 Other taxation and social security 7,410 6,063 170,155 29,588 144,589 8,699 15 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Bank and other borrowings note 16 332 91,450 91,323 44 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 16 Bank and other borrowings Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year: Bank loan 132,280 132,280 Acquisition loan notes 71 2,249 Obligations under hire purchase agreements 316 155 132,667 2,404 132,280 Amounts falling due after more than one year: Bank loan 91,323 91,323 Obligations under hire purchase agreements 332 127 332 91,450 91,323 The bank loan and acquisition loan notes were secured by a guarantee and debenture dated 29 June 2001, until their repayment in April 2004.
The bank loan attracted interest at LIBOR plus a variable margin.
The acquisition loan notes were issued as partial consideration for a previous acquisition and paid interest at 1.5% below LIBOR.
The bank loan facilities were refinanced in April 2004 and the above bank loan replaced by a new loan under the terms of the new facilities.
The new bank loan bears interest at LIBOR plus a variable margin and is repayable in full in April 2009.
These new facilities offer greater flexibility in that the maximum amount has been increased from 167.5m to 205.0m and allow funds to be drawn down in currencies other than sterling.
Each hire purchase agreement is secured on the assets under lease and bears interest at an implicit fixed rate that varies between 5% and 10% per annum.
45 PHS Group plc 17 Financial instruments The principal financing and treasury exposures facing the Group relate to the management of foreign currency exposure and interest rate positions, the financing of acquisitions and tangible fixed assets and working capital management.
The Groups functional and reporting currency is sterling.
Until the acquisition of All Water Systems Limited, the Group had no operations based overseas and little trade in other currencies, so the currency exposures faced were minimal.
Since this acquisition, the Group is exposed to sterling euro exchange rate movements on the net investment and profits of this subsidiary.
The foreign exchange movement on net investment is hedged by way of a forward contract committing the Group to sell F7.25m in June 2004, at a specified rate of exchange, for sterling.
The intention is to draw down a euro loan under the Groups new bank facilities for this amount to replace the current forward foreign exchange contract hedge.
The Board have assessed the risk of exchange rate movements having significant effect on the profits of the Group to be low due to the size of this operation in relation to the Group and relative stability of the currencies involved.
For this reason, it has been decided not to hedge these profits at this time.
The Group predominately borrows at floating rates of interest, largely through bank borrowings at rates linked to LIBOR.
In the current environment of low gearing and high interest cover, the Directors consider the level of interest rate risk to be acceptable.
The strategy is to finance the ongoing acquisition programme through a combination of these borrowings and internally generated cash.
Any future investment denominated in currency other than sterling can be naturally hedged by drawing down an equal loan denominated in the same currency as the investment.
Effective working capital management forms an important part of maximising the amount of internally generated cash available.
Control of trade debtors is a key element in this area with comprehensive credit control procedures and regular debt monitoring by the Board helping efficient conversion of turnover to cash.
Cash is retained as long as is consistent with complying with negotiated payment terms with suppliers.
Stock levels are monitored to achieve the desired balance between holding sufficient to meet demand whilst not tying up any more cash than necessary.
The Group has financial instruments in the form of short-term debtors and creditors that arise in the normal course of business.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the disclosures that follow.
a Interest rate and currency risk profile of financial liabilities and assets The fixed and floating interest rate profile of the Groups financial liabilities and assets at 31 March was as follows: 2004 2003 Fixed Floating Fixed Floating rate rate Total rate rate Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Financial assets 6,701 6,701 5,938 5,938 Financial liabilities 648 132,351 132,999 282 93,572 93,854 648 125,650 126,298 282 87,634 87,916 Financial liabilities and assets are denominated in sterling, except that floating rate financial assets include 252,000 2003: nil denominated in euro.
b Interest rate profile of borrowings and finance leases The interest profile of the borrowings and finance leases is set out in note 16.
The Group receives interest on its cash balances at floating rates of interest linked to money market rates.
The weighted average interest rate and weighted average period for which the rate is fixed, on the fixed rate financial liabilities is shown below: Fixed rate financial liabilities weighted Fixed rate financial average period for liabilities weighted which rate is fixed average interest rate 2004 2003 2004 2003 Years Years % % Sterling borrowings 2.5 2.1 7.4 8.6 The weighted average period is based on the maturity of the respective debt.
c Borrowing facilities and liquidity risk The Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2004, consisting of a 13,322,000 working capital facility 2003: 13,600,000 and a 20,150,000 auxiliary facility 2003: 30,720,000.
As explained in note 16, these facilities were replaced in April 2004 with a new bank facility that expires in April 2009.
46 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments continued d Fair values of financial liabilities and financial assets The following table provides a comparison by category of the carrying values and fair values of the Groups financial liabilities, financial assets and derivative financial instruments at 31 March.
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties other than a forced or liquidated sale and excludes accrued interest.
The fair values of short-term borrowings and cash approximates to the carrying value because of their short maturity.
The fair value of long-term borrowings approximates to the carrying value because substantially all of these borrowings attract interest at a floating rate.
2004 2003 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 000 000 000 000 Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations Short-term borrowings 132,667 132,667 2,404 2,404 Long-term borrowings 332 332 91,450 91,450 Cash at bank and in hand 6,701 6,701 5,938 5,938 126,298 126,298 87,916 87,916 Derivative financial instruments held to hedge net investment in overseas operations Forward foreign exchange contract 90 90 126,208 126,208 87,916 87,916 e Maturity profile of financial liabilities The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Groups financial liabilities, excluding short-term trade creditors and accruals, at 31 March was as follows: 2004 Within 1 year Between Between or on demand 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 Bank loan 132,280 132,280 Acquisition loan notes 71 71 Obligations under hire purchase agreements 316 177 155 648 132,667 177 155 132,999 2003 Within 1 year Between Between or on demand 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years Total 000 000 000 000 Bank loan 23,244 68,079 91,323 Acquisition loan notes 2,249 2,249 Obligations under hire purchase agreements 155 86 41 282 2,404 23,330 68,120 93,854 18 Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions for liabilities and charges arising in the Company are wholly in respect of deferred taxation as explained in note 6.
19 Accruals and deferred income 2004 2003 Group 000 000 Accruals 6,321 4,435 Deferred income 38,803 33,439 45,124 37,874 Deferred income represents the unearned proportion of rentals receivable from customers in advance and will normally be credited to turnover within one year.
20 Pensions The Group operates a defined contribution scheme for eligible employees.
Contributions by the Group are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The total pensions costs for the year are shown in note 4.
47 PHS Group plc 21 Called up share capital 2004 2003 Group and Company 000 000 Authorised 695,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each 69,500 69,500 Allotted, issued and fully paid 517,059,085 2003: 517,047,388 ordinary shares of 10p each 51,706 51,705 During the year, 11,697 ordinary shares were issued at 71p per share following the exercise of options granted in 2001 under the terms of the savings related share option scheme.
At 31 March 2004, the following options had been granted and remain outstanding in respect of the Companys 10p ordinary shares under the share option schemes.
22 Statement of movement on reserves Group Company Share Profit Share Profit premium and loss premium and loss account account account account 000 000 000 000 At 1 April 2003 187,725 27,048 187,725 18,144 Premium on issue of shares 7 7 Retained profit for the financial year 21,564 4,813 Currency translation differences on foreign currency net investment 103 Currency translation differences on forward foreign exchange contract hedge 90 At 31 March 2004 187,732 48,599 187,732 22,957 23 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 30,354 25,402 13,603 11,807 Dividends paid and proposed 8,790 2,844 8,790 2,844 Retained profit for the financial year 21,564 22,558 4,813 8,963 Other recognised gains and losses for the year 13 New share capital subscribed 8 1 8 1 21,559 22,559 4,821 8,964 Opening shareholders funds 266,478 243,919 257,574 248,610 Closing shareholders funds 288,037 266,478 262,395 257,574 48 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Analysis of other headings in the cash flow statement Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2004 2003 000 000 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received 17 Interest paid on bank loans and overdrafts 5,192 4,681 Issue costs incurred in respect of borrowings 140 188 Interest paid on acquisition loan notes 31 149 Interest paid on hire purchase agreements 70 34 5,416 5,052 Capital expenditure Purchase of equipment at customers premises 9,130 7,567 Purchase of other tangible fixed assets 3,974 2,702 Proceeds of sale of tangible fixed assets 271 179 12,833 10,090 Acquisitions Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses 64,081 45,564 Acquisition expenses 1,241 1,257 Net cash acquired 1,339 927 63,983 45,894 Financing Receipt of bank loans 40,334 23,357 Repayment of bank loans 815 2,414 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 8 1 Repayment of capital element of hire purchase agreements 619 284 38,908 20,660 The trade, assets and liabilities of acquisitions made during the year have been amalgamated into the existing trade of the Group and therefore their effects on the reported cash flows cannot be determined.
25 Movements in net debt At Acquisitions Other At 1 April excluding cash non-cash 31 March 2003 Cash flow and overdrafts changes 2004 000 000 000 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 5,938 771 8 6,701 Debt due within one year Bank loans 815 815 132,280 132,280 Acquisition loan notes 2,249 2,178 71 Obligations under hire purchase agreements 155 619 367 413 316 2,404 3,612 1,182 132,693 132,667 Debt due after more than one year Bank loans 91,323 40,194 131,517 Obligations under hire purchase agreements 127 205 332 91,450 40,194 131,312 332 Net debt 87,916 35,811 1,182 1,389 126,298 Other non-cash changes include 8,000 of translation differences arising on cash at bank and in hand.
49 PHS Group plc 26 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2004 2003 000 000 Increase Decrease in cash during the year 771 3,480 Cash flow from increase in debt and lease financing 36,582 10,320 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 35,811 13,800 Bank loans and leases acquired 1,182 2,840 Translation differences 8 Changes in net debt resulting from non-cash changes 1,381 1,740 Movement in net debt in the year 38,382 18,380 Net debt at 1 April 87,916 69,536 Net debt at 31 March 126,298 87,916 Non-cash changes comprise 763,000 of amortisation of debt issue costs and 618,000 of hire purchase agreements incepted.
27 Capital commitments The Group had capital commitments of 700,000 at 31 March 2004 2003: 54,000.
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2004 2003: nil.
28 Acquisitions During the year, the Group acquired the entire issued share capital of a number of companies as well as the trade and certain net assets of a number of companies or unincorporated businesses.
The acquisitions that the Directors believe to have been individually material to the Group are identified below: Total consideration Acquired entity Nature Acquisition date 000 Airstream Services Limited Company 30 May 2003 24,934 Johnsons Washroom Services Business 13 August 2003 13,890 All Water Systems Limited Company 2 December 2003 5,223 Other companies and businesses 17,503 Total for all acquisitions 61,550 Goodwill arising on a number of the acquisitions made in the year can be determined only on a provisional basis because the fair values of the purchase consideration and net assets acquired cannot yet be finally determined.
For each material acquisition, a table showing the book value, fair value adjustments and fair value of each class of asset and liability acquired is provided.
The tables also analyse the fair value of the consideration paid and set out the purchased goodwill arising.
50 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Acquisitions continued Alignment of Book value accounting policies Fair value Airstream Services Limited 000 000 000 Intangible fixed assets 20,972 20,972 Tangible fixed assets 2,440 28 2,412 Stocks 214 214 Debtors 1,087 205 882 Cash 277 277 Total assets 24,990 21,205 3,785 Other creditors 2,542 2 2,544 Net assets liabilities 22,448 21,207 1,241 Purchased goodwill 23,693 Consideration 24,934 Satisfied by: Cash 24,681 Acquisition expenses 253 24,934 Airstream Services Limited made a loss after tax of 2,712,000 from incorporation on 22 October 2002 to the date of acquisition.
Fair value adjustments comprise adoption of Group policies in respect of depreciation, provision against irrecoverable debtor balances, recognition of liabilities and writing off acquired goodwill.
Alignment of Book value accounting policies Fair value Johnsons Washroom Services 000 000 000 Tangible fixed assets 961 961 Stocks 216 45 171 Debtors 1,400 1,400 Total assets 2,577 45 2,532 Other creditors 2,389 2,389 Net assets liabilities 188 45 143 Purchased goodwill 13,747 Consideration 13,890 Satisfied by: Cash 13,756 Acquisition expenses 134 13,890 Johnsons Washroom Services Limited made a loss after tax of 668,000 in the financial year ended 31 December 2002.
The result for the period to acquisition is not known as the Group acquired only certain assets and liabilities of the business.
Fair value adjustments comprise adoption of Group policies in respect of stock recognition.
51 PHS Group plc 28 Acquisitions continued Book and Fair value All Water Systems Limited 000 Tangible fixed assets 301 Stocks 275 Debtors 487 Cash 70 Total assets 1,133 Bank loan 4 Other creditors 964 Net assets 165 Purchased goodwill 5,058 Consideration 5,223 Satisfied by: Cash 5,060 Acquisition expenses 163 5,223 Translated at the average rate for the period since acquisition, All Water Systems Limited made a loss after tax of 88,000 from 1 June 2003 to the date of acquisition and a profit after tax of 252,000 in the previous financial year.
Alignment of Book value accounting policies Fair value Other acquisitions 000 000 000 Intangible fixed assets 13 13 Tangible fixed assets 1,226 239 987 Stocks 452 36 416 Debtors 1,591 268 1,323 Cash 992 992 Total assets 4,274 556 3,718 Bank loan 811 811 Other creditors 2,805 722 3,527 Net assets liabilities 658 1,278 620 Purchased goodwill 18,123 Consideration 17,503 Satisfied by: Cash 16,267 Deferred cash consideration 650 Acquisition expenses 586 17,503 Fair value adjustments comprise adoption of Group policies in respect of fixed asset and stock recognition, depreciation, lessor accounting on operating leases, accounting for deferred income, provision against irrecoverable debtor balances and writing off acquired goodwill.
An analysis of cash and cash equivalents in respect of each acquisition is provided below: Airstream Johnsons All Water Services Washroom Systems Limited Services Limited Others Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cash consideration including acquisition expenses 24,934 13,890 5,223 16,853 60,900 Cash at bank and in hand acquired 277 70 992 1,339 Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents 24,657 13,890 5,153 15,861 59,561 In addition to the above, 4,422,000 was paid in respect of acquisitions made in prior years.
This was mainly as a result of the conversion of loan notes and the payment of deferred consideration.
52 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Operating lease commitments At 31 March, the Group was committed to making the following annual payments during the next year in respect of non-cancellable operating leases: 2004 2003 000 000 Land and buildings Operating leases which expire: Within one year 43 145 Between one and five years 684 447 After five years 745 702 1,472 1,294 Other Operating leases which expire: Within one year 1,163 382 Between one and five years 3,439 3,567 After five years 13 4,615 3,949 30 Related party transactions Where appropriate the Company and Group have taken advantage of the exemption available not to disclose any related party transactions and balances with greater than 90% owned Group companies for the financial year.
31 Post balance sheet events The Group has made four acquisitions since the year end, none of which are individually material.
As described in note 16, the Group refinanced its bank borrowing facilities in April 2004.
53 PHS Group plc Five-year summary Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 000 000 000 000 000 Turnover 77,874 97,068 115,067 139,902 165,262 Operating profit 15,397 26,744 33,567 41,216 50,057 Net interest payable 20,510 30,386 14,942 5,182 6,602 Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 969 Profit Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 5,113 3,642 17,656 36,034 43,455 Taxation on profit loss on ordinary activities 45 300 787 10,632 13,101 Profit Loss on ordinary activities after taxation 5,158 3,342 18,443 25,402 30,354 Equity minority interests 1 Profit Loss for the year 5,159 3,342 18,443 25,402 30,354 Dividends 2,172 2,844 8,790 Retained profit loss for the year 5,159 3,342 16,271 22,558 21,564 Basic earnings loss per share 1.18p 0.75p 4.18p 4.91p 5.87p Basic earnings loss per share has been calculated as if the weighted average number of shares in issue for the year ended 31 March 2002 had been effective in each of the two years ended 31 March 2001.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2000 are derived by combining the audited financial statements of PHS Group plc for the period from incorporation on 7 July 1999 to 31 March 2000, with the results prior to 7 July 1999 of the holding company acquired by PHS Group plc on that date.
54 PHS Group plc Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Holiday Inn Hotel, Castle Street, Cardiff CF10 1XD on Friday, 23 July 2004 at 1:00 pm for the following purposes: Ordinary business Resolution Number 1 To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Resolution Number 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Resolution Number 3 To approve the declaration of a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004 of 1.48p per ordinary share, to be paid on 1 September 2004 to all shareholders registered at the close of business on 6 August 2004.
Resolution Number 4 To re-elect R D Mackenzie as a Director.
Resolution Number 5 To re-elect J M Allan as a Director.
Resolution Number 6 To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business Resolution Number 7 Ordinary resolution In accordance with Article 6 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 17,062,950 being 33% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 31 March 2004.
Such authority shall expire on 22 July 2009 and all previous authorities under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
Resolution Number 8 Special resolution Subject to the passing of the previous resolution 7 and in accordance with Article 7 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors be empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act and the authority conferred by said resolution 7: a to allot equity securities for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the allotment: and b to allot equity securities for cash within Section 94 3A of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that such power is limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue: ii the allotment of equity securities in satisfaction of the valid exercise of options pursuant to the Companys discretionary and savings related share option schemes: and iii the allotment other than in connection with a rights issue of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding 2,585,295 being 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 31 March 2004.
This power shall expire on 22 July 2009 and all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
Resolution Number 9 Special resolution The Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of, and to cancel, ordinary shares of 10p each in the ordinary share capital of the Company provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 51,705,908 being 10% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at 31 March 2004 : ii the minimum price that the Company may pay is 10p per share and the maximum price that the Company may pay is 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased, in both cases exclusive of expenses: iii the authority hereby conferred unless previously revoked or varied shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, but before such expiry, the authority shall allow the Company to enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
By order of the Board John Skidmore Company Secretary 23 June 2004 55 PHS Group plc Notice of meeting continued Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed which holders of ordinary shares in the Company are invited to complete and return in the envelope provided.
To be valid, forms of proxy must be deposited with Computershare Investor Services, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion and return of the proxy form in accordance with the instructions thereon does not prevent such shareholders from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting in person.
The register of interests of Directors and their families together with copies of the Directors service contracts will be available at the Companys registered office on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays excepted during usual business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will, on the date of the Annual General Meeting, be available for inspection at the venue of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and until the conclusion of the meeting.
Only those members registered in the register of members at close of business on 21 July 2004 will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
56 PHS Group plc Shareholder information Directors, Company Secretary, registered office and advisers Solicitors Morgan Cole Directors Bradley Court Robert David Mackenzie Non-executive Chairman Park Place Peter James Cohen Chief Executive Cardiff CF10 3DP John Fletcher Skidmore Finance Director Jan Gunnar Astrand Non-executive director Registered Auditors John Murray Allan Non-executive director  LLP One Kingsway Company Secretary Cardiff CF10 3PW John Fletcher Skidmore Registrars Registered and head office Computershare Investor Services plc PHS Group plc PO Box 82 Western Industrial Estate The Pavilions Caerphilly CF83 1XH Bridgwater Road Stockbroker Bristol BS99 7NH Merrill Lynch International 2 King Edward Street London EC1A 1HQ Financial calendar and website Interim results published December 2004 Dividend payment dates: Final 1 September 2004 Interim January 2005 provisional Website www.
co. uk Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar PHS Group plc Annual Report 2004 PHS Group plc Annual Report 2004 PHS Group plc Western Industrial Estate Caerphilly South Wales CF83 1XH Tel 029 2085 1000 Service Fax 029 2086 3288 www.
co. uk and product innovation PHS Group plc PHS Group plc
