Report on directors remuneration INTRODUCTION including setting the appropriate performance targets: This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors approving pension arrangements, contractual and termination Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
As required by the arrangements for executive directors and other senior regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed executives: and at the annual general meeting of the company to be held on determining the policy relating to the grant of options under 20th July 2004. the senior executives share option schemes.
This report to shareholders notes the remuneration key points The full terms of reference of the committee are available for the year, outlines the membership and workings of the on the companys website.
Remuneration Committee and provides an explanation of the Activities various elements of the remuneration policy.
The report also During the year under review, the committee had five meetings and outlines how the executive and non-executive directors were all persons, who were members at the relevant time, attended all remunerated during the year, and provides details of the share meetings with the exception of William Harrison, who was not interests of all the directors.
The Report on Directors Remuneration is unaudited except for the At the committees request, the group chief executive and the section headed Audited Information.
company secretary were invited to attend committee meetings, 2004 remuneration key points except when matters relating to their own remuneration and service The executive directors, excluding Andrew Robb who retired agreements were under discussion.
on 28th July 2003, invested their entire annual bonuses in The committee is authorised by the board to obtain any outside company shares.
professional advice about remuneration matters and has selected The performance awards under the Leadership Equity Award Deloitte & Touche LLP to advise it on remuneration practice.
Plan made in 2001 will not vest as the minimum earnings per During the year, Deloitte & Touche LLP also provided advice to share growth will not be met.
the board on non-executive directors remuneration and advised the None of the executive directors were eligible for share options, company on the expensing of share options and on proposed except under the savings-related scheme.
Each executive director has a 12 month contract with the company.
There were no changes made to executive directors pension The committee also received advice from David Vernon-Smith, arrangements.
the group human resources director, and Annette Kelleher, the New higher shareholding targets for executive directors and group compensation and benefits manager.
The principal matters considered by the committee during the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE year were: Membership Annual review of salaries for executive directors and certain As at 1st April 2003 the members of the committee were James senior management.
Leng, Sir Nigel Rudd, Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel, William Harrison and Targets and results for annual incentive plans for executive Oliver Stocken.
Performance targets for long-term incentive plans.
Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel retired as a member of the committee on his Grant of executive share options and awards under the retirement as a non-executive director following the conclusion of Leadership Equity Award Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan.
the annual general meeting on 28th July 2003.
Share ownership and higher shareholding targets for executive Christine Morin-Postel was appointed a member of the committee directors and senior management.
on her appointment as a non-executive director with effect from 1st August 2003.
POLICY ON REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR EXECUTIVES There have been no changes in the membership of the committee Objectives of the remuneration policy during the period from 1st April 2004 to 26th May 2004.
The objectives of the remuneration policy are to ensure that During the year under review, James Leng acted as chairman of the remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed in committee and David Vernon-Smith, the group human resources such a way as to attract, retain and motivate executive directors director, acted as secretary.
and senior executives of the highest calibre on a worldwide basis.
The policy aims to ensure that individual rewards and incentives Responsibilities are aligned with the performance of the Group and the interests The committees key responsibilities include: of the shareholders and reflect the contribution of the individuals determining the overall remuneration policy for executive concerned.
The individual elements of the executive package will directors and for other senior executives within the Group: vary depending on the market conditions in the countries in which setting the remuneration packages of individual executive directors, they operate.
However, annual bonus and long-term incentive plan the company secretary and executives who report directly to the structures follow a global policy and are designed and co-ordinated group chief executive in his capacity as group chief executive: at Group level.
receiving prior to implementation, reports on any proposed changes in the individual remuneration packages of any other The committee aims to align its remuneration policy with the executives, who report to any of the executive directors: short-term goals as well as the medium to long-term strategy determining and approving annual and long-term incentive plans of the Group.
Salary and benefit packages are set at market 8 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004
