Accounting policies continued The pension cost relating to defined benefit schemes operating in The Group regularly reviews its depreciation rates and the the UK is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent remaining useful economic lives of its tangible fixed assets to take qualified actuaries.
The amounts so determined include the regular account of technological changes, intensity of use over their lives cost of providing the benefits under the plans, which it is intended and market requirements.
should remain at a level percentage of current and expected future IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSETS earnings of the employees covered under the plans.
Variations from If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying the regular pension costs are spread on a systematic basis over the value of fixed assets may not be recoverable, the need for any estimated average remaining service lives of current employees in fixed asset impairment provision is assessed by comparing the the plans in accordance with SSAP 24. carrying value of the asset against the higher of its net realisable Retirement plans of non-UK subsidiaries are accounted for in value and its value in use.
The value in use is determined by accordance with local conditions and practice.
These subsidiaries discounting estimated future cash flows expected to be derived recognise the expected cost of providing pensions on a systematic from the asset, or if more applicable, the income-generating unit, basis over the average remaining service lives of employees in to net present value.
accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
LEASES The policy in respect of the cost of providing healthcare benefits to Assets held under finance leases are included in tangible fixed retired employees, principally in the USA, accords with UITF 6, assets at cost and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and is similar to that used to account for pension obligations.
The or their useful economic life.
Obligations relating to finance annual charge to the profit and loss account is determined on a leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are systematic basis over the service lives of employees in accordance included as appropriate under creditors due within or after one with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining The notes to the financial statements contain additional balance of the obligations.
Rentals under operating leases are information on retirement benefits as required by FRS 17. charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION STOCKS, WORK IN PROGRESS AND LONG-TERM Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost.
Cost includes the CONTRACTS original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and works When the Group builds an entirely new major plant, the initial overhead expenditure incurred in bringing goods to their current commissioning costs, bringing the plant to a status prior to state under normal operating conditions.
Net realisable value is production of goods of saleable quality, are capitalised as part of based on anticipated selling price less the cost of selling such the fixed asset.
All subsequent costs are written off to the profit goods and any sales incentives.
and loss account as incurred.
In the case of businesses acquired by the Group, the fair value Profit on long-term contracts, principally in relation to the building attributed to the tangible fixed assets at the date of acquisition is of new float line projects, is recognised once the projects outcome treated as their cost to the Group.
can be assessed with reasonable certainty, usually when the project is 75 per cent complete.
The profit is calculated by applying the Gross interest costs relating to major tangible fixed assets under percentage completion at the balance sheet date to the expected construction are included in the cost of such assets and are contract profit.
Any losses envisaged on long-term contracts are depreciated as part of the total cost.
Capitalisation of such costs provided as soon as they are foreseen regardless of the extent of ceases when the asset is commissioned.
Long-term work in progress is stated net of payments The Groups float lines are subject to regular repair.
All hot repair received on account.
costs on glass tanks incurred while the furnace is alight are DEFERRED TAXATION written off to the profit and loss account.
When the float tank is Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences rebuilt every ten to 15 years the cost of the re-build is capitalised that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date as fixed assets and depreciated over the life of the tank until the where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay next re-build.
more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is charged on all occurred at the balance sheet date.
other categories of tangible fixed assets so as to write off the cost Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable and recognised in by equal annual instalments over the expected useful economic the financial statements when, on the basis of available evidence, lives of the assets at the following rates: it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits Freehold buildings 2% to 5% per annum from which the future reversal of the timing differences can be Long leasehold buildings 2% to 5% per annum deducted.
The recoverability of tax losses is assessed by reference Improvements to short to forecasts which have been approved by the board.
leasehold buildings over the life of the lease Float glass tanks 7% to 10% per annum No timing differences are recognised in respect of: Glass making plant 4% per annum fair value adjustments to acquired tangible fixed assets where Glass processing plant 6% to 7% per annum there is no commitment to sell the asset: Other plant and machinery 5% to 20% per annum gains on the sale of assets where those assets have been rolled Vehicles 20% per annum over into replacement assets: and 20 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004
