additional tax which would arise if the profits of overseas SHARE BASED INCENTIVE PLANS subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates were The Groups share based incentive plans are accounted for in distributed, in excess of those dividends that had been accrued.
accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force UITF Abstract 17 Employee Share Schemes.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The cost of shares acquired by the trust operating the Groups DEBTORS employee share ownership plans is charged to the profit and loss Provisions against the non-recovery of debtors are made account over the period to which the employees performance specifically against identified doubtful debtors.
Where awards are contingent upon future events, other than general provision is made against all trade debts excluding those continued employment, an assessment of the likelihood of these already specifically provided, those which are insured, those which conditions being achieved is made at the end of each period and an are covered by confirmed irrevocable letters of credit and those appropriate accrual made.
with major vehicle manufacturers or government departments FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES unless a specific provision is deemed necessary.
The Group uses cross currency swaps and forward currency The Group discounts without recourse certain factored debts.
The contracts to manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange non-returnable amount of the factoring arrangement is deducted risks and hedge its investments in overseas subsidiaries and from the trade debtors.
The debt factoring charge in the year is investments designated in foreign currencies.
Such financial disclosed as part of net interest payable and similar charges.
instruments are treated as hedges against the underlying assets or liabilities.
All gains or losses are taken to the statement of total PROVISIONS recognised gains and losses until the instrument and the underlying Provisions in respect of liabilities are made in accordance hedged investments are sold, when the profit or loss arising is with FRS 12 and are discounted where the effect is material.
taken to the profit and loss account as realised.
Specifically: In addition, the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the The provision for post-retirement healthcare and life insurance balance of its fixed and floating rate debt.
The net interest income benefits is assessed annually by independent qualified actuaries or expense on an interest rate swap is recognised as interest in the using the projected unit credit method.
Groups profit and loss account over the life of the transaction.
Where the Group guarantees or warrants a product from Where there is a legal right of set-off between a deposit and a loan, defect at the time of sale, a warranty provision is set up to the two are offset within the financial statements.
cover the likely costs of potential claims, calculated by reference to historic experience and the duration of the The Group excludes all short-term debtors and creditors from its warranty period.
derivatives and financial instrument disclosures other than those on currency risk relating to monetary assets and liabilities.
Provisions for redundancies and restructuring costs are made once a detailed formal plan has been prepared and approved SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS PARENT COMPANY and the Group is irrevocably committed to implementing the The company carries its investment in subsidiary undertakings plan.
at cost less any impairment.
Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 21
