Directors report continued brings together in one document the key elements of Group policy DIRECTORS that impact upon these relationships.
The directors of the company are shown on page 30 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
ENVIRONMENT Pilkington strives for the highest standards in all the countries in Andrew Robb and Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel retired as directors at the which it operates.
A copy of the Groups environmental policy may conclusion of the annual general meeting held on 28th July 2003. be obtained from the company secretary.
An environmental review Christine Morin-Postel was appointed to the board on 1st August is also available from the company secretary and is also on our 2003.
She will offer herself for election as a director at the annual website at www.
More information on environmental issues is set out on pages 25 In accordance with the companys Articles of Association to 27 of the Annual Review.
Stuart Chambers and James Leng will retire by rotation at the HEALTH AND SAFETY annual general meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves The board is committed to achieving the best international for re-election.
standards of health and safety throughout the Group.
Apart from service contracts, letters of appointment and share The Groups health and safety policy includes a requirement options, no director of the company had any significant interest for full health and safety audits of all facilities.
These cover in any contract with the company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures management responsibilities, standards and monitoring or associates.
A copy of the policy may be obtained from DIRECTORS INTERESTS the company secretary and is also on our website at The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the www.
Information on the Groups safety share capital of the company and the number of options held by performance is disclosed on pages 24 and 25 of the them in respect of the companys shares are set out in the Report Annual Review.
on Directors Remuneration on pages 8 to 16.
PILKINGTON AND THE COMMUNITY AUDITORS During the year Pilkington made donations to charitable  LLP have indicated their willingness organisations in the UK amounting to 204,000 2003 235,000. to continue in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing Donations to charitable organisations overseas amounted to them as auditors and authorising the directors to determine their 256,000 2003 210,000.
No political contributions were made.
remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
The board believes that all Group companies and their ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING employees benefit from making an appropriate contribution The notice convening the annual general meeting to be held at to the communities in which they operate and it will continue the Pilkington European Technical Centre, Hall Lane, Lathom, to encourage this.
Ormskirk, Lancashire L40 5UF on Tuesday, 20th July 2004 at PAYMENTS POLICY 11.30 am, and an explanation of certain items of business is sent The Groups policy in relation to the payment of its suppliers is to to shareholders with this report.
settle its terms of payment with each supplier when agreeing the terms of each business transaction.
The supplier is made aware of the terms which are detailed on the Groups purchase orders.
It is Group practice to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
Trade By order of the board, creditors of the company amounting to 3 million are reported in John McKenna note 23 to the financial statements, and represent 28 days of Secretary average daily purchases.
26th May 2004 2 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004
