Notes on the financial statements continued 38 PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED The actuarial liabilities in respect of the above arrangements in the company as at 31st March are as follows: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 14 13 11 Deficit 14 13 11 Related deferred tax asset Net pension liabilities already provided in the accounts 14 13 11 The analysis of the amount that would be charged to operating profit in respect of the companys defined benefit scheme is as follows: 2004 2003 m m Current service cost 1 Past service cost 1 1 1 The analysis of the amount that would be charged to net interest and similar charges as other finance charge is as follows: 2004 2003 m m Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1 1 The movement in the deficit is as follows: 2004 2003 m m Deficit at beginning of the year 13 11 Current service cost 1 Employer contributions 1 Past service cost 1 Other finance charge 1 1 Total amount recognised in the STRGL Deficit in scheme at end of the year 14 13 2004 2003 Net assets statement company m m Net assets of the company excluding additional pension liabilities page 24 1,053 1,084 Add back pension liabilities already provided in the financial statements under SSAP 24 note 27 b 14 13 Deduct net pension liabilities as determined under FRS 17 14 13 Net assets of the company including pension adjustments 1,053 1,084 The profit and loss reserve of Pilkington plc at 31st March 2004 would therefore remain unchanged at 73 million 2003 111 million.
2004 2003 Joint Associates Joint Associates ventures ventures 39 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS m m m m Sales by Pilkington Group 31 Purchases by Pilkington Group 38 1 40 2 The Groups related party transactions with joint ventures are principally with Pilkington Glass France SAS and Cebrace, and with associates are principally with Vitro Plan SA fide CV.
Amounts owed by and owed to joint ventures and associates are shown in notes 20 and 23.
The Group has taken advantage of the FRS 8 exemption not to disclose any transactions or balances between Group undertakings that have been eliminated on consolidation.
54 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 Principal subsidiaries in the Pilkington Group The following list of subsidiary undertakings comprises those companies that principally affect the financial statements of the Group.
The Groups percentage beneficial holding in subsidiary undertakings relates to equity shares unless otherwise specified.
All holdings are through Pilkington Brothers Limited, Pilkington Italy Limited or Pilkington Finance Limited, all of which are direct subsidiaries of the parent company, unless otherwise stated.
Undertakings indicated are audited by professional accountants other than  LLP and, added to the joint ventures and associates appearing in notes 16 and 17, represent approximately 7.8 per cent of the Groups assets employed.
All subsidiary undertakings account to 31st March 2004.
Country of operation % Equity Product or activity SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS and incorporation held Europe Pilkington United Kingdom Limited UK 100 Glass manufacturing and processing Pilkington Automotive Limited UK 100 Safety glass Pilkington Technology Management Limited UK 100 Technology management Pilkington Deutschland AG Germany 95 Glass manufacturing and processing Pilkington Automotive Deutschland GmbH Germany 95 Safety glass Pilkington Austria GmbH Austria 100 Glass processing Pilkington Norge AS Norway 100 Glass processing Pilkington Schweiz AG Switzerland 100 Glass processing Pilkington Floatglas AB Sweden 100 Glass manufacturing and processing Pilkington Automotive Sweden AB Sweden 100 Safety glass Pilkington Automotive Finland OY Finland 100 Safety glass Pilkington Lahden Lasitehdas OY Finland 100 Glass manufacturing Pilkington France SA France 100 Glass processing Pilkington Danmark A S Denmark 100 Glass processing Pilkington International Glass Poland Sp.
z o. o. Poland 100 Glass processing Pilkington Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland 100 Glass manufacturing Pilkington Italia SpA Italy 100 Glass manufacturing and safety glass North America Pilkington North America Inc USA 100 Glass manufacturing and safety glass Libbey-Nippon Holdings Inc USA 50 Safety glass L-N Safety Glass SA fide CV Mexico 100 Safety glass Rest of the world Pilkington Australia Limited Australia 100 Glass manufacturing and safety glass Vidrieria Argentina S. A. Argentina 51 Glass manufacturing Vidrios Lirquen S. A. Chile 26 Glass manufacturing Pilkington Automotive Argentina S. A. Argentina 100 Safety glass Pilkington Brasil Limitada Brazil 100 Glass processing and safety glass Pilkington New Zealand Limited New Zealand 100 Glass processing Guilin Pilkington Safety Glass Co Limited China 60 Safety glass Changchun Pilkington Safety Glass Co Limited China 51 Safety glass Holding and finance companies Pilkington Brothers Limited UK 100 Holding company Pilkington Italy Limited UK 100 Holding company Pilkington Finance Limited UK 100 Finance management and holding company Pilkington Nederland Holdings BV UK Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington Germany Holdings BV UK Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington Nederland No 1 BV Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington Nederland No 3 BV Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington International Holdings BV Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington Holding GmbH Germany 100 Holding company Pilkington Holding GmbH preference shares Germany99 Dahlbusch AG Germany 99 Investment and property company Vidrios Lirquen SA is owned 51% by a 51% owned subsidiary of Pilkington Nederland No 2 BV, which is itself owned by Pilkington Nederland No 3 BV.
Pilkington Nederland Holding BV and Pilkington Germany Holdings BV operate in the UK but are incorporated in the Netherlands.
Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 55 Group financial record For the years ended 31st March 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Turnover 2,751 2,754 2,805 2,820 2,707 Profits Operating profit Group companies 179 175 189 196 72 Operating profit joint ventures and associates 33 42 49 53 51 Exceptional items 7 4 12 5 8 Group profit before taxation and exceptionals 143 144 173 177 60 before taxation and after exceptionals 136 140 161 172 52 after taxation and after exceptionals 89 91 100 104 7 Group profit loss attributable to shareholders of Pilkington plc 78 68 74 77 4 Dividends 63 63 62 62 55 Assets employed Intangible fixed assets 139 158 163 174 91 Tangible fixed assets 1,380 1,520 1,498 1,585 1,508 Investments in joint ventures, associates and other undertakings 176 181 239 218 225 Net current assets 259 252 274 259 148 Total assets less current liabilities 1,954 2,111 2,174 2,236 1,972 Financed by Total shareholders funds 677 684 707 722 667 Minority interests 94 97 301 320 341 Creditors over one year, provisions and deferred income 1,183 1,330 1,166 1,194 964 Funds invested 1,954 2,111 2,174 2,236 1,972 Cash flow from Operating activities 377 367 262 321 271 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 8 24 926 9 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 26 73 73 81 71 Taxation paid 48 22 44 38 15 Capital expenditure net 104 161 154 182 154 Acquisitions and disposals 33 3 5 40 24 Dividends 54 58 45 47 65 Liquid resources 23 20 21 22 1 Financing 161 74 45 44 14 Increase decrease in cash 2 14 16 19 16 Key figures Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets 148 164 172 190 194 Operating profit to total turnover 7.7% 7.9% 8.5% 8.8% 4.5% Earnings loss per share 6.2p 5.4p 6.0p 6.5p 0.4p Earnings per share excluding exceptional items 6.7p 5.8p 6.8p 6.8p 0.4p Dividends per share declared 5.0p 5.0p 5.0p 5.0p 5.0p Dividend cover 1.2 1.1 1.2 1.2 0.1 Share price high 100p 119p 122p 130p 118p low 49p 43p 89p 65p 63p as at 31st March 89p 49p 114p 106p 73p Following the changed treatment of redundancy and restructuring costs in 2003, the operating profit Group companies, operating profit joint ventures and associates, exceptional items, Group profit before taxation and exceptionals, the operating profit to total turnover and earnings per share excluding exceptional items for the years 1999 to 2002 were re-presented.
The items marked in respect of 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of FRS 19 on deferred taxation.
The figures for 2000 have not been adjusted.
The EPS figures have also been adjusted in that year and subsequently to comply with FRS 14.
56 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 Shareholder contacts Contact Address Telephone E-mail Facsimile Website REGISTRARS Computershare PO Box 82 Shareholder web.
com investorcentre uk Investor Services PLC The Pavilions enquiries computershare.
Bridgwater Road 0870 702 0000 co. uk Bristol BS99 7NH Share dealing 0870 703 0084 Textphone 0870 702 0005 PILKINGTON PLC David Roycroft Pilkington plc 01744 692837 david.
com Head of Corporate Affairs Prescot Road or pilkington.
com and Investor Relations St Helens 020 7747 6000 WA10 3TT John McKenna 01744 692451 john.
lennon@ 01744 730577 Assistant Company Secretary pilkington.
com FINSBURY GROUP Financial PR advisers Charlotte Hepburne-Scott 52-58 Tabernacle St 020 7251 3801 charlotte.
com EC2A 4NJ The Registrars can be contacted by Textphone which allows speech and hearing impaired people who have access to a Textphone to contact Computershare direct without the need for an intermediate operator.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours.
com PRINTED wace PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 www.
com Head Office and Registered Office Prescot Road St Helens WA10 3TT Telephone: 01744 28882 Fax: 01744 692660 www.
com Company Number 41495 CR5950 Pilkington Directors Report & Accounts Proof 8 21 05 04 ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Making glass for the worlds buildings and vehicles Pilkington plc is one of the worlds largest manufacturers of glass and glazing products for the building and automotive markets.
Employing 23,900 people we have manufacturing operations in 24 countries and sales in over 130.
With our joint ventures and our associates, we have the widest geographical reach of any glassmaker, enabling us to respond to customers whose operations are increasingly global.
Geographically, over half our sales are in Europe, approximately a third are in North America, and the rest are primarily in South America and Australasia.
Our operations centre on two worldwide business lines: Building Products supplying original equipment and refurbishment glass for the worlds buildings: and Automotive Products supplying glass and glazing systems to the original equipment and replacement glazing markets.
1 Financial highlights 2 Chairmans statement 4 Our business 6 Group chief executives review 10 Our strategy 12 Building Products 14 Review of operations: Building Products 16 Automotive Products 18 Review of operations: Automotive Products 20 Finance directors review 24 Corporate social responsibility 30 Board of directors 31 Summary directors report 31 Summary remuneration report 36 Summary financial statement 41 Independent auditors statement to the shareholders of Pilkington plc 42 Shareholder information 44 Shareholder contacts Financial highlights Operating profit from Group businesses up to 179 million from 175 million Profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and taxation on a like-for-like basis up to 151 million from 145 million 2004 2003 m m Profit before taxation 136 140 Add : Exceptional items 7 4 Amortisation of goodwill 8 9 Less : Interest cost of refinanced preference shares 8 151 145 Earnings per share before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items up to 7.4 pence from 6.5 pence plus 14 per cent : basic earnings per share up to 6.2 pence from 5.4 pence Free cash flow before dividends, acquisitions and disposals up to 207 million from 135 million: a record cash performance Net debt reduced by nearly one quarter in the year, from 861 million to 664 million Final dividend 3.25 pence, maintaining 5.0 pence in total for the full year Turnover Operating profit Profit before goodwill Cash flow from Cash flow before including share of joint including share of joint amortisation, exceptional operations dividends, use of ventures and associates ventures and associates items and tax liquid resources and financing m m m m m Non-statutory disclosures are reconciled to the statutory disclosures in note 2 to the Summary Financial Statement on page 39.
As anticipated, challenging conditions Turnover from continuing operations, including joint ventures continue to prevail in most of the markets in which the and associates, was unchanged at 2.8 billion.
Despite this, Group sales held up well and from Group businesses was 4 million ahead of last year at the Groups operating profit excluding joint ventures and 179 million, though profits from joint ventures and associates associates rose from 175 million to 179 million, with declined, mainly in Brazil and Mexico, from 42 million to the strong profit performance in Automotive offsetting the 33 million.
As a result, overall operating profit at 212 million reduction in Building Products.
Our share of profits in joint was down two per cent on the 217 million in 2003.
Profit ventures and associates, affected by currency weakness in before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and taxation Mexico, fell from 42 million to 33 million.
of 151 million was impacted by the borrowing costs assumed following the decision to refinance the outstanding preference Continuing focus on cash generation enabled Pilkington to shares in March 2003, but on a like-for-like basis rose by four generate its highest ever cash inflow before dividends, management per cent over the 145 million in 2003.
After deducting goodwill of liquid resources and financing of 240 million, and to reduce amortisation of 8 million 2003 9 million and exceptional Group borrowings by 23 per cent over the year, to 664 million.
losses arising from the sale and termination of operations of Taking into account the preference shares redeemed last year, this 7 million 2003 4 million, profit before tax was 136 million is the lowest level of Group borrowings recorded since 1997.
These results again featured a strong performance in our Earnings and dividends Automotive business, where organisational and operational Earnings per share before exceptional items and amortisation performance improvements have helped offset price pressures.
of goodwill increased from 6.5 pence to 7.4 pence, up 14 per Building Products results in Europe were affected by generalised cent.
Basic earnings per share increased from 5.4 pence to price weakness, though outside Europe Building Products results 6.2 pence, up 15 per cent.
Compared to 2003, attributable earnings continued to improve.
Results were further underpinned by the rose due to lower net interest costs, tax charges and minority transformation in manufacturing and operational efficiency interests, despite the reduced profit contribution from joint achieved over recent years in both businesses.
The board is recommending a final The sale of Pilkington Aerospace has concentrated managements dividend of 3.25 pence per share, bringing the total for the focus further on the core Building Products and Automotive year to 5.0 pence per share, the same as last year.
A unified Building Products Europe business, is covered nearly three times by free cash flow.
Subject to the encompassing both upstream and downstream operations, has approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting, the final been established.
The reorganisation of the Automotive business dividend will be paid on 30th July 2004 to shareholders on the has been completed with the creation of a single global register at 11th June 2004. organisation serving both the Original Equipment OE and Cash flow and borrowings Automotive Glass Replacement AGR sectors.
Operating cash flow amounted to 377 million 2003 The Step Change programme in North America, launched three 367 million.
Cash flow before dividends, management of years ago to bring our businesses there up to the levels of the rest liquid resources and financing increased from 138 million to of the Group, has now been completed, with the predicted annual 240 million, up 74 per cent.
After payment of 54 million for benefits achieved.
Nevertheless, Pilkington is determined to dividends, net cash flow before financing more than doubled from maintain its competitive edge and programmes have been launched 80 million to 186 million.
This clearly demonstrates Pilkingtons over the past year to ensure that the Group stays ahead through continuing achievements against a key strategic objective, enabling further reductions in overhead costs and improved efficiency.
the Group to make further significant reductions in its borrowings.
2 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 This is a strong set of results that shows Pilkington achieving managements objectives.
Our focus on keeping down costs has enabled Pilkington to report substantially maintained profits despite challenging conditions in some of our biggest markets.
Operational and manufacturing efficiency improvements achieved over the past few years have resulted in a record cash performance our prime objective for this stage of our strategy.
Group borrowings were reduced by 23 per cent over the year.
Pilkington remains on track with its strategy and is delivering on its promises.
Net borrowings at 31st March 2004 were 664 million, down by in 1965 and, after undertaking a number of roles in the 197 million from 861 million at 31st March 2003.
The reduction Group Legal Department, became the company secretary on in borrowings over the last two years was 256 million, down 1st September 1997.
John has made a valuable contribution to the 28 per cent, taking into account the Pilkington Channel Islands work of the Group over many years and I wish him a long and Limiteds preference shares redeemed in 2003. happy retirement.
STRATEGY I am pleased to announce that Sheila Lennon, who is currently Pilkington is implementing a clear three-stage strategy, Cash for the assistant company secretary, has been appointed to succeed Growth, the stages of which are: John as the company secretary with effect from 1st August 2004.
First improve the operational fitness of the businesses: EMPLOYEES Second produce net free cash from operations, initially Over the past ten years, the number of employees in the to reduce debt: and then Pilkington Group has been reduced by around 30 per cent.
Third invest surplus cash in future profitable growth.
Pilkington now employs 23,900 people, between them speaking 17 different languages and manufacturing in 24 countries.
Over the past six years, radical improvements have been made in With fewer and more empowered employees, the need for manufacturing performance, with significant reductions in excellent communications has never been higher.
Pilkington overheads across the business.
Management attention remains already has in place a robust internal communication system, focused on achieving further internal economies and on the including an award-winning internal newspaper, Pilkington generation of net free cash.
Planning is already well advanced on Focus published in all local languages, and a Group intranet the third stage of the strategy, investment in the growth of the operational around the world.
Over the past year, a major business.
Such investment will be in existing operations as well as communications programme, led by the group chief executive, in new markets and Pilkington has already established a presence has ensured that every employee understands the Groups strategy in both Russia and China, investing so as to limit risk and and the part he or she can play in its implementation.
Further minimise early cash expenditure.
improvements are planned for the coming year to ensure that THE BOARD the same rigour is applied to employee communications as to As anticipated in my statement last year, Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel and all our procedures.
Andrew Robb retired as directors at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 28th July 2003.
PROSPECTS We do not expect to see significant improvement in trading Christine Morin-Postel joined the board as a non-executive director conditions in our major markets this year.
However, Pilkington on 1st August 2003 and we are benefiting from her knowledge of is already well advanced with internal programmes designed international markets and from her experience in general to ensure that we stay ahead of the competition and build on management and human resources.
the operational gains of the past six years.
Our focus on cash COMPANY SECRETARY generation will again be vigorously pursued this year, aimed at a John McKenna will retire as the company secretary on 31st July further reduction in Group borrowings, as Pilkington prepares 2004 after nearly 39 years with Pilkington.
John joined the Group for future profitable growth.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 3 Our business Glass is a growth industry.
Global demand for glass consistently outstrips economic growth around the world.
The past 50 years have seen a significant increase in the proportion of glass used in the worlds buildings and vehicles.
At the heart of the worlds glass industry is the Float Glass process developed by Pilkington in 1952 and now the world standard for high quality glass production.
Todays architects and car designers are using larger surface areas of glass in their designs, increasingly with added functionality and complexity.
TWO STRONG BUSINESS LINES SALES BY GEOGRAPHY Sales 2004 Building Products 59% EUROPE 22% NORTH AMERICA 8% SOUTH AMERICA 11% AUSTRALASIA BUILDING AUTOMOTIVE Automotive Products 53% 45% 53% EUROPE 39% NORTH AMERICA 5% SOUTH AMERICA OTHER 2% 3% AUSTRALASIA TWO STRONG BUSINESS LINES Pilkington and its joint ventures and associates have the widest geographic reach of any glassmaker.
Over half our sales are in Europe, approximately a third are in North America, and the rest primarily in South America and Australasia.
BUILDING PRODUCTS AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS This business encompasses Pilkingtons activity in Pilkington Automotive operates as a single global organisation manufacturing float glass and other processed building serving the Original Equipment OE and Aftermarket AGR glass products.
Principal areas of operation are Europe, sectors.
The business has manufacturing operations in 17 North America, South America and Australasia.
Principal operations are in Europe, North America, business has manufacturing operations in 18 countries.
South America, Australia and China.
The business supplies all of the worlds leading vehicle manufacturers.
Pilkington building products control energy usage, protect against fire, insulate against noise, provide safety and In 2003, around one in four light vehicles built in the world security, afford decoration and privacy, self-cleanse and contained Pilkington glass.
4 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 ROUTES TO MARKET Most Pilkington products are NEW BUILDINGS made from Float Glass.
In Building Products, basic glass can undergo two or more stages of processing BUILDING INSTALLER REFURBISHMENT PRODUCTS DEALER before being installed as original or replacement windows or glazing systems, or used as a component INTERIOR in furniture or white goods, such FLOAT as cookers and refrigerators.
CONSUMER MANUFACTURER Within Automotive, we supply glass used in original equipment for new ORIGINAL vehicles to all of the worlds leading EQUIPMENT OE OE MANUFACTURER carmakers and also manufacture and AUTOMOTIVE WHOLESALER PRODUCTS distribute replacement parts for the FITTER AFTERMARKET aftermarket throughout the world.
AGR WORLD FLOAT GLASS CAPACITY GLOBAL DEMAND Float glass capacity of the worlds leading float glass manufacturers in 2003 Growth in global glass demand has outpaced GDP growth since 1991 6,000 DIVISION ONE DIVISION TWO 200 4,000 GLOBAL GLASS DEMAND GROWTH : 3.6% p. a.
100 0 50 1991 1993 1995 1997 1999 2001 2003 Calendar year A LEADER IN THE WORLDS GLASS INDUSTRY GLOBAL DEMAND FOR FLAT GLASS Pilkington is the worlds second largest float glass group, Glass growth is fuelled by the demand for larger areas of with 15 per cent of world capacity 19 per cent including building and automotive glass, which in turn are driven joint ventures and associates.
Specialising exclusively in by economic growth.
glass, Pilkington is one of only two companies in the Flat Glass Whilst 2004 is expected to offer a modest growth in basic industry with a truly global presence.
It is also one of only volume, over the long-term, glass demand is still growing three glass groups with global automotive glazing capability at over 3.6 per cent annually, outstripping average Gross and reach.
With its associates and strategic partner NSG, Domestic Product GDP growth worldwide.
Pilkington is the worlds number one supplier of glass and glazing systems to the worlds automotive industry.
Around one in four light vehicles in the world built in 2003 contained Pilkington glass.
Pilkington is the world leader in Automotive Glass Replacement AGR.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 5 000s tonnes ASAHI PILKINGTON GUARDIAN SAINT-GOBAIN PPG TAIWAN GLASS PILKINGTON AFFILIATES TSCF HANKUK FORMER SOVIET UNION NSG CARDINAL KEUMKANG MULIAGLASS VISTEON CENTRAL EUROGLAS CHINA OTHER Index 1991 100 Group chief executives review Stuart Chambers Group Chief Executive The results for the past year demonstrate that Pilkington primarily but not exclusively about reducing costs, wherever and remains on track with its strategy and is delivering on whenever we can.
Project 20 therefore targets a reduction in our cost base over the We have defined and are implementing a clear three-stage next three years.
We are achieving this through a re-examination of strategy Cash for Growth to improve the operational every activity in our supply chain, benchmarking our best fitness of our businesses, to produce net free cash from operations and transferring skills, as well as identifying and our operations to reduce debt and then to invest that cash eradicating waste throughout the Group.
The generation of net cash is key to both stages two and three of STRATEGY our Cash for Growth strategy.
In stage two, which we entered in Stage one of Cash for Growth, launched in 1997, concentrated April 2002, our clear priority has been to generate a net surplus of on improving the effectiveness of our existing operations, building cash from our newly efficient operations around the world and use one Pilkington with one agenda, standard operating procedures and the cash generated to reduce our borrowings.
a clear sense of purpose in all our operations.
We also set out to We are making excellent progress and we fully expect to complete achieve a step change in our profitability and competitiveness.
The stage two by around the middle of 2005, by which time the objective was, and remains, to be the best in the world at making financial position of the Group will be significantly strengthened.
This Step Change has taken some six years At this point we will be entering stage three, when we will invest to achieve, a huge amount of effort by everyone in Pilkington and in the growth of our business.
We will invest in growing existing a significant financial investment.
operations as well as in growing in new markets, such as Russia This Step Change stage has largely been completed.
In both of these markets, we have already established a significantly reduced our overheads and radically improved presence, investing in a manner that limits our risks and minimises manufacturing performance, with most Pilkington businesses cash outflow.
around the world now operating at world-class levels.
Our We announced last September the formation, with Emerging objective now is to bring all our plants up to excellent performance Markets Partnership, of a 50:50 joint venture to construct and levels, with safety and quality underpinning everything we do.
operate a float glass plant in the Moscow region of Russia.
The We operate in two of the most competitive markets in the world plant, to be built and operated by Pilkington, will have a sales and are well aware that we need to redouble our efforts to stay capacity of approximately 240,000 tonnes per annum and is ahead.
Low costs remain fundamental to success in the Flat Glass planned to come on stream in 2005.
Construction work is industry and we intend to identify and take every opportunity to underway on the plant, which represents a first step in establishing reduce costs further.
To secure our position as lowest cost producer a growth opportunity for Pilkington in Russia, an important and to deliver our target of a 14 per cent net cash return over the expanding market for flat glass.
business cycle, we need to achieve a further step change in our Pilkington has been active in China since 1983, and we now have cost base in both Building Products and Automotive.
extensive sales and manufacturing operations, with a significant For this reason, we have over the past year launched a companyinterest in the float manufacturing company Shanghai Yaohua wide initiative known internally as Project 20.
This is intended to Pilkington and stakes in four automotive glazing plants.
Pilkington ensure that in three years time we are 20 per cent better than we Automotive is already the largest foreign supplier of automotive are today, staying ahead of our competitors and able to compete for glass to the Chinese car industry and we intend to increase our business anywhere in the world.
For Pilkington, better is investment in this important and fast-growing market.
6 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 In Building Products, our most important new product, Pilkington Activ dual-action self-cleaning glass, is already having an impact in the market worldwide.
BUILDING PRODUCTS continue to widen during the coming year, offers the dual benefits The objectives of our Building Products business are clear.
Whilst of self-cleaning and solar control in one product.
keeping safety and customer quality at the top of our minds in all TM Over the past year, we have augmented the Pilkington Suncool that we do and continuously improving both, we must be the lowest product range to extend colour choice and enhance performance cost supplier to our customers.
We intend to retain our position as in this important specification-led and added-value sector.
For the the technological leader in the Flat Glass industry with continued refurbishment of the 12 storey Eurohaus office complex in investment designed to sustain a flow of new products and new TM Frankfurt am Main, Germany, the architects specified more than processes.
Our most important new product, Pilkington Activ TM 12,000 square metres of Pilkington Suncool 50 30 Silver.
The dual-action self-cleaning glass, is already having an impact in the glass has been used for all the faades and harmonising spandrels.
TM The customer base for Pilkington Activ has increased In North America, we have launched Pilkington Eclipse TM steadily throughout the year.
The lead-time for construction Advantage reflective low-e glass: the worlds first pyrolitic projects is such that a growing number of landmark buildings reflective low-emissivity product, available on grey, bronze, blueTM fitted with Pilkington Activ are only now nearing completion.
green, EverGreen, Arctic Blue, and clear substrates.
The product These include the recently opened headquarters of the insurance range, which replaces the previous Eclipse Reflective line, meets company Groupama in Lyon, France, in which 5,000 square metres modern architectural demands for high visible light transmittance, TM of Pilkington Activ have been installed and the Britomart low exterior reflectance, good thermal performance and excellent building in Auckland, New Zealand, glazed throughout with the solar control properties.
Sales of this exciting product have been TM product.
The Pilkington Activ Suncool range, which we will strong since its launch.
The results for the past year demonstrate that Pilkington remains on track with its strategy and is delivering on its promises.
We are implementing a clear three-stage strategy Cash for Growth to improve the operational fitness of our businesses, to produce net free cash from our operations to reduce debt and then to invest that cash in future profitable growth.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 7 Group chief executives review continued In Automotive, Pilkington has a substantial dedicated asset base across Europe, North America, South America, Australia and China, and is well placed to meet the demands of the worlds carmakers for innovative and reliable vehicle glazing systems.
AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS The past year has seen the highest concentration ever of new Our Automotive business now operates as a single global business, model introduction activity in our Automotive OE business.
encompassing all our Original Equipment OE and Automotive Pilkington Automotive has been involved in more than 50 new Glass Replacement AGR operations throughout the world.
We product launches, from the luxury Maserati Quattroporte and the have created an integrated business line structure that is delivering high-volume Astra in Europe, to the new Ford Barra in Australia improved customer service, greater competitiveness, a stronger and and the General Motors Chevrolet Malibu and Toyota Solara in sustainable business model and substantial cash flow improvement.
The benefits of these changes are now showing through clearly in Just over a year ago we launched SABRE, an enterprise-wide the results from the business.
supply chain system covering all automotive processes from new Pilkington has a substantial asset base dedicated to Automotive model introduction through manufacture to despatch and electronic Products across Europe, North America, South America, Australia self-billing.
SABRE has so far been implemented in the UK, and China, and is well placed to meet the demands of the worlds Belgium, France, Spain and Poland, and the intention is to introduce carmakers for innovative and reliable vehicle glazing systems.
it into all our Automotive plants worldwide as quickly as possible.
Reduced time to market for new vehicle programmes and growth TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING in demand for glazing systems continue to be major drivers in We continue to invest in state-of-the-art facilities to support our this part of the business.
We are seeing lead-times for new ongoing new product and process R&D programme.
We have vehicles, from first design to full production, being cut by as recently completed the installation of a large-scale magnetron much as half, to 18 months or even less, compared with the sputter coater at our European Technical Centre at Lathom in traditional development period of around three years.
This equipment will support coated product and process manufacturers are also progressively introducing niche models development for both Building and Automotive Products.
This presents challenges for the Also nearing completion at Lathom is a three-year investment glass supplier, as the glazing requirements are typically different programme to equip the Group with a full-scale automotive glass for each variant.
processing facility to enhance our capabilities in new product and Continuous improvement in simulation and virtual prototyping has new model development.
The investment will both accelerate allowed us to meet shortening deadlines and we have expanded our development programmes and remove the need to tie up prototyping facilities in Europe and North America to improve manufacturing capacity for these activities.
Both of these initiatives development and delivery of glazing system assemblies.
Interest is represent multi-million pound enhancements of our R&D facilities.
growing in full area sunroofs, requiring a combination of shaping competence, tight tolerance control, solar control and glazing Construction is almost complete on our latest float line at Barra system integration capability.
We have seen further evidence of Velha, Brazil, a joint venture with Saint-Gobain, to meet increasing laminated sidelight growth, particularly in North America.
Europe demands for glass in the south of the country.
The line is due to has led the styling trends for advanced glass shapes, including be commissioned in July 2004 and as Brazil nears completion, panoramic windscreens and large area roof glazings, as well as foundation work has begun on the joint venture line at Ramenskoye, moves towards colour tints such as blue glass to complement near Moscow, due to start production in the second half of 2005. vehicle design.
Pilkington continues to be well positioned to take Work is also underway on a new Iranian float line for Ghazvin advantage of all these trends.
Glass, planned to start up in 2006.
8 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 Low costs remain fundamental to success in the Flat Glass industry.
We will continue to identify and grasp every opportunity to reduce our cost base further.
Ensuring the business makes the most efficient use of its available cash requires that the shutdown, repair and return to capacity of our existing float lines is carried out quickly and on budget.
This is reflected in an increasingly busy re-build schedule for our engineering function.
In Germany, we recently re-started a float line in Gladbeck and a rolled facility at Schmelz after refit and modernisation.
Preparatory work is now underway for repairs to two further lines, one in Dandenong, Australia and one in Europe, with both programmes due to begin in 2005.
LOOKING AHEAD Pilkington is the second largest producer of glass for buildings and vehicles in the world.
We operate in a strong industry, with glass demand growing year on year.
Although our Building Products and Automotive businesses have distinct drivers, there are many synergies, which we will continue to exploit as a single One Pilkington business.
Low costs remain fundamental to success in the Flat Glass industry.
Cash generation remains a priority and we have plans to improve cash performance further by streamlining our supply chains to run our business effectively at ever-lower levels of stock, reducing working capital wherever possible.
The priority going forward is to channel most of our net free cash after dividends into reducing our debt until our target levels are reached, which we expect to be early in 2005 2006.
At that point we will move into stage three of our Cash for Growth strategy, when the emphasis will shift to profitable growth through our existing businesses, emerging markets and, where appropriate, acquisition.
Work is already well underway to identify and prioritise our growth options and to prepare for implementation from mid-2005.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 9 Our strategy We have a clear three-stage strategy to ensure that we deliver value to our shareholders.
Over the past six years we have made significant progress in reducing our costs and improving our competitiveness Stage 1 of our three-stage journey.
Most Pilkington manufacturing operations are now at, or approaching, world-class levels.
Cash for Growth will ensure that we build on the progress we have made over the past few years by generating the cash needed to strengthen our financial position Stage 2 and to fund profitable growth Stage 3.
STAGE FOCUS ACTION Although Stage 1 is largely complete 1997 Improve the in Step Change terms, we intend to effectiveness of continue to seize every opportunity to reduce our costs.
existing operations An internal improvement programme, Step Change Project 20, aims to make Pilkington 20 per cent better, reducing our cost base through a re-examination of all our processes, internal benchmarking and waste elimination.
mid Before spending cash we generate Generate cash 2002 on further growth opportunities, to strengthen we must first deliver the benefits from our investment in restructuring.
our finances This means reducing the borrowings which financed the Step Change programme.
mid We will identify opportunities for 2005 Invest in profitable profitable growth in our existing growth opportunities businesses, new products and emerging markets.
We will consider organic growth and or acquisition.
10 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 Pilkington is at a crucial stage in its three-stage journey to become a truly top performing company, delivering value to our shareholders ACHIEVEMENTS TO DATE NEXT STEPS Overheads reduced significantly by 275 million Continue to take every opportunity to reduce over the past six years.
Continue to drive down overheads to sales ratio.
Most Pilkington businesses operate at world-class Operate all our plants at world-class performance performance levels.
levels, with Quality and Safety as top priorities.
Final stage of the Step Change programme in North America completed, improving profits in both businesses.
Key performance indicators, management targets Continue to deliver strong cash flow performance.
and incentives firmly aligned to cash generation.
Improve supply chains to run the business effectively In 2004 we are able to report continuing strong at ever-lower levels of stock.
cash inflow, the highest since the early 1990s.
Improve debtors and creditors to reduce working Borrowings reduced so far by 256 million capital wherever possible.
28 per cent in the two years since the launch Channel most of net free cash after dividends into of Stage 2. reducing our debt until target levels are reached, expected to be during 2005 2006.
Fourth float line under construction in Brazil for The generation of cash remains top priority.
our South American joint venture.
On stream in Meanwhile we will prioritise our growth options.
We will lay the groundwork for certain growth Sound base established in China as a platform for investments during Stage 2, but these will be future growth.
Pilkington is already the leading structured to minimise cash outlay until we are foreign automotive glazing supplier in China.
Float line joint venture in Russia is due to come on stream in 2005 2006.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 11 Building Products Building Products sales, including joint ventures and associates, were 1,448 million, similar to the previous year.
Operating profits fell by 13 per cent to 142 million.
This was predominantly due to continued downward pressures on selling prices in Europe, coupled with weak demand on the Continent.
Profits improved in North America, despite slow growth in commercial construction.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT GLASS SYSTEMS Coated and tinted products and Pilkington Planar is a structural insulating glazing units are used to glazing system requiring no frame, control the flow of energy into and allowing architects immense flexibility out of a building.
During cold weather, in the appearance of glass faades.
low emissivity low-e products reflect heat back into the building.
In warm SPECIAL APPLICATIONS weather, solar control products Pilkington Optiwhite is an dramatically reduce the effect of ultra-clear float glass with a very low the suns heat, minimising the need iron content.
Its neutral appearance for air-conditioning.
makes it particularly appropriate for prestigious building projects and for SELF-CLEANING GLASS use in furniture.
Pilkington Activ self-cleaning glass is the latest example of NOISE CONTROL technological innovation from Glass products that allow people Pilkington.
Incorporating a proprietary to live and work in peace and quiet.
dual-action coating on the glass, Pilkington Optiphon L is a laminate it virtually eliminates the need for using a special interlayer, which external window cleaning.
DECORATIVE GLASS SAFETY The Pilkington Texture Glass range Glass that is used to reduce the is continually updated to introduce risk of accident by impact, fracture new and exciting patterns which or shattering.
Pilkington toughened provide both decoration and privacy.
safety glass and Pilkington laminated safety glass provide a huge range of SECURITY performance levels.
By using thicker and larger numbers of glass sheets in laminated form, FIRE PROTECTION Pilkington security glass offers even Pilkington employs two types of higher levels of protection from bullets technology to protect people and and blasts.
Pilkington Pyroshield is a wired glass and Pilkington Pyrodur and Pilkington Pyrostop use a proprietary clear interlayer technology.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 13 Review of operations: Building Products BOOSTING RESEARCH A new 3.3 million magnetron sputter-coating machine has recently been installed in the Groups European Technical Centre at Lathom, Lancashire.
The machine uses production scale technology and will be used for developing new added-value products, particularly high-performance solar-control glazing and to aid research into the technology of bending coated products.
The Groups Building Products business remains a market Production of the Groups high value-added clear fire protection leader.
Internally, a global initiative is focusing on cost reduction range, the market-leading Pilkington Pyrostop, was again throughout the business line, with new programmes being launched increased in Germany during the year to meet continuing strong to reduce overheads further and improve production efficiency.
The growth in demand for this product.
effect of such programmes is already apparent in the North UK sales of low-emissivity Pilkington K Glass were once again American business, with last years restructuring now paying strong, although the rapid growth following the upgrade in UK dividends and a significant reduction in overheads showing building regulations is now levelling off.
Outside the UK, the through in the 2004 results.
general competition and resulting price pressure on semi-finished glass products, such as off-line coated glasses and insulating glass Although capacity utilisation remains low in Europe, the absence units, has continued.
of new float builds planned in the next two years should see the gradual restoration of an appropriate balance of demand and Pilkington Activ, our innovative self-cleaning glass, registered supply, particularly if there is an acceleration in growth rates.
In steady growth across Europe following on from its launch in 2002.
North America, office vacancy rates have begun to decline, raising The Pilkington Activ product range has been further developed speculation that commercial building rates will pick up next year.
in tandem with high performance solar control coatings.
These Meanwhile, our plans for efficiency improvement continue to position dual-coated products strengthen the Groups competitive position our Building Products business well for any upturn in demand.
in the commercial building markets.
EUROPE Improved quality and service remain key drivers in the business During the year, the European Primary Products and Processing and strategy and all processing and merchanting customers in Europe Merchanting businesses were combined to form Building Products can now place orders online.
Europe, Pilkingtons largest single business.
The new business unit An announcement was made in September 2003 of the Groups represents 59 per cent of Pilkingtons Building Products sales, intention to build and operate its first float glass plant in Russia, including joint ventures and associates, and with an integrated in a joint venture with Emerging Markets Partnership.
Scheduled strategy and management will provide further opportunities for to come on stream in 2005, the plant will be situated in the improving cash management and for reductions in the cost base.
Ramenskoye district of the Moscow Oblast and will have a Despite continuing challenging market conditions in Continental capacity of around 240,000 tonnes of glass per year.
Civil Europe, sales volumes were marginally up on last year.
In a engineering work on the project is already well underway.
strongly competitive environment, price declines which began NORTH AMERICA back in 2001 have continued, with average float prices falling by In the North American Building Products business which, around 14 per cent in the last financial year.
In response, significant including joint ventures and associates, accounts for about improvements in manufacturing performance were made during the 22 per cent of Building Products global turnover, sales volumes year, further reducing costs, while a restructuring of the Groups decreased but profitability went up, due mainly to improved coating operations in Germany and Sweden is underway.
manufacturing performance, better sales mix and savings realised One of the two float glass lines at Gladbeck was repaired and through cost reduction initiatives.
The residential sector in North upgraded during the final quarter of the year.
A cold repair was America is still strong, though the commercial sector showed little also carried out on the profiled glass furnace in Schmelz, Germany.
The Building Products business in North 14 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 A NOVEL APPLICATION FOR PILKINGTON ACTIV STRATEGIC GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES To protect the famous Nottbeck fountain in the northern city of Tampere Construction is almost complete on the Groups latest float plant at Barra during the harsh Finnish winter, the city council this year arranged for it Velha, Brazil.
A joint venture with Saint-Gobain, the line has been built to be completely covered in winter with a striking 4.5 metre high curved to meet the increasing demands for glass in the south of the country.
The high technology glass structure consists of an inner layer Foundation work has also begun on a joint venture float line at Ramenskoye, of 6mm toughened safety glass, laminated to an outer layer of 6mm near Moscow, which is due to start production in the second half of 2005.
Pilkington Activ self-cleaning glass, which is now available in all major Plans for a float line in Iran in 2006 are also underway.
America is now better positioned to take advantage of an upturn in Groups Building Products sales, continuing strength in residential the US economy, particularly in the commercial sector.
housing markets has sustained glass demand.
Pilkingtons valueadded products have fared well, primarily due to the robust In Mexico, Vitro Plan SA fide CV VVP, in which Pilkington has home improvement and refurbishment sector.
The combination a 35 per cent interest, reported lower sales, despite recovery of the of high demand coupled with ongoing manufacturing efficiency Mexican market and ongoing growth in Iberia.
improvements ensured that Building Products Australasia again SOUTH AMERICA produced good profits and cash results.
South American Building Products, including the Cebrace joint The refocused Building Products New Zealand business venture, with operations in Brazil, Argentina and Chile, accounts attained record profits in an economy which grew by over three for approximately eight per cent of total sales for the Building per cent.
Growth was on the back of strong household spending Products business.
and an increase in the construction of new dwellings, driven by high In Brazil inflation fell and the exchange rate stabilised, but low net immigration.
Commercial construction activity was also high.
growth rates and a fall in construction activity led to a dip in the demand for float glass.
Export sales however greatly improved, Economic growth in Asia remained strong, China once again compensating partly for the weak domestic market.
The start-up led the way, with another year of growth in GDP above eight of the fourth float line in Brazil, to be operated by Cebrace, the per cent.
Domestic demand in China for both float glass and joint venture between Pilkington and Saint-Gobain, is scheduled processed architectural products remains strong, and the market for July 2004. grew by more than ten per cent.
Pilkingtons high performance architectural float glass products continue to sell well in the In Argentina the economy grew strongly after two years of crisis, region.
Prices improved towards the end of the year, and the with the construction industry leading the economic resurgence.
Groups associated manufacturing company in China, Shanghai Consequently, demand for float glass rose sharply, with Pilkington Yaohua Pilkington Glass Co Ltd SYP, in which Pilkington maintaining its market share.
In Chile, the construction sector holds a 19 per cent share, reported a 30 per cent improvement experienced another quiet year.
SYP acquired its fourth float glass line in January 2004, ASIA PACIFIC in Tianjin, and a new US$35 million architectural glass factory in In Australia and New Zealand, which represent nine per cent of the Shanghai has started production.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 15 Automotive Products Automotive Products sales, including joint ventures and associates, were 1,250 million, down three per cent from the previous year.
Operating profit, however, improved by 20 per cent to 89 million.
During the year, the business line launched a further business improvement initiative, designed to ensure that Pilkington is able to improve competitiveness in order to win new contracts profitably against tough competition from established and emerging markets.
This will continue to stimulate the ongoing drive for improved operating efficiencies, reduced costs and higher profitability.
16 LAMINATED SIDELIGHTS GLASS SUNROOFS GLASS SHAPING RAIN SENSORS Increased comfort: high Designers are increasingly specifying Glass is bent into shape for Pilkington has developed a patented frequency noise reduction, large area glass roofs for cars.
After heating, sensor, using infrared rays to detect ultraviolet protection, solar parts, termed Panorama roofs, are sag-bending and press-bending moisture on the windshield.
It then control improvement and two or three times the size of traditional allow the manufacture of complex automatically activates the windshield reduced direct solar radiation sunroofs and increase the feeling of shapes free from wrinkles and wipers at the right speed for the Security: reduced theft from space and light within the vehicle.
cars, personal security and increased protection from intrusion WATER MANAGEMENT GLAZING GLAZING SYSTEMS Safety: less risk of full or partial Heated glass systems that remove Any components or features ejection and increased resistance condensation from internal glass added after basic manufacturing to object penetration.
surfaces and ice from external to increase value to the customers.
Hydrophobic coating Examples include door cassettes SOLAR CONTROL GLAZINGS on the glass that rapidly clears or door modules.
By encapsulation Glass that reduces the effects of rainwater from the car windows, the window frame or gasket is solar heat build-up inside the car.
moulded directly onto the glass Improves passenger comfort in a closed mould process.
Reduces air conditioning load, thereby increasing fuel economy Reduces ultraviolet transmissions, increasing the life of interior materials.
Review of operations: Automotive Products PROMOTING AUTOMOTIVE DESIGN Pilkington Automotive is involved in the design of vehicle glazing at an early stage in the development process.
To encourage young vehicle designers, Pilkington has for the past 16 years sponsored the Royal College of Art Vehicle Design Awards.
In 2003, student Mohammed Arthur Ali won the Best Design Interpretation category with a revolutionary Mountain Bike Car which was described by one of the judges as a niche vehicle with attitude.
Pilkington Automotive operates as a single global organisation market in Europe, through success with new models and specialist serving the Original Equipment OE and Automotive Glass applications.
In addition, our plans for further improvement in Replacement AGR markets.
All operations have now been efficiency, quality and customer service should again show through combined into an integrated worldwide business unit, across in the results for the current period.
all regions and distribution channels.
The effects of these EUROPE organisational changes, coupled with restructuring activities Overall light vehicle production in Europe was essentially in North America, and relentless focus on reducing costs and unchanged from the previous year.
However, sales by our European improving quality are already apparent.
Automotive business, accounting for 53 per cent of the Groups The past year has seen the highest concentration ever of new Automotive sales, increased by six per cent.
This was due to gains model introduction activity in the Automotive OE business.
on new model introductions and increased demand for specialised Pilkington Automotive has been involved in more than 50 new applications in the bus, coach and truck markets.
product launches, from the luxury Maserati Quattroporte and the Increased product complexity is an important factor in the OE high-volume Astra in Europe, to the new Ford Barra in Australia market, leading to growing sales of solar reflective windshield and the General Motors Chevrolet Malibu and Toyota Solara in glass, intruder-resistant side glazing and heated wired products.
Vehicle manufacturers are increasingly introducing This trend will continue as vehicle manufacturers emphasise the niche models using the same platform.
This presents challenges for advantages of increased security and noise reduction.
Designs for the glazing supplier as, although car makers will interchange future vehicles show increases in glass content through panoramic elements from the base models, the glass is different in each windshields and all-glass sunroofs.
In addition, lead times for vehicles are being cut by as much as half, to 18 months or even less, compared with a Total value of the aftermarket continues to grow in line with traditional development period of around three years.
increases in the adoption of high value-added windscreens, such as infrared reflective and wire-heated, together with those containing For Automotive to become a more effective, more capable and extra components such as rain sensors and extruded profiles.
As a committed business, excellence in communication has been major OE supplier with access to all these technologies, Pilkington identified as a critical foundation for the achievement of is able to offer a wide and attractive product range to its customers.
Therefore, improvements in internal Demand dipped in the second half of the year, though operations in communications will be a priority over the coming year.
Germany and France are benefiting from the reconfiguration of The business continues to develop, improve and expand its single warehouse and logistic operations, improved service levels and global quality management system.
This has now been extended range availability.
implemented in all the OE operations in Europe, North America NORTH AMERICA and South America, enabling these operations to achieve OE light vehicle production in North America declined from the certification to the ISO UT 16949:2002 quality standard.
Work has previous year by four per cent, as North American vehicle begun on implementing the system in all the OE operations in Australia and China.
manufacturers continued to reduce dealer inventory levels.
Industry expectations are for a modest increase in production of However, our North American Automotive business which, light vehicles in North America this year, and for steady demand in including associates accounts for 39 per cent of the Groups Europe.
Pilkington continues to expect to grow faster than the Automotive sales, showed significant operational improvement 18 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 SHORTENING DEVELOPMENT TIMES IN OE SPEEDING SERVICE IN THE AFTERMARKET Pilkington is supplying the entire glazing for the new Chrysler Crossfire sports Improved customer service and lower operating costs are an ongoing coupe which was launched in Autumn 2003, followed by the cabriolet in objective within the Groups AGR operations.
The fast development time for the model is typical of reduced system throughout the AGR business means that data storage is now faster time to market for new vehicle programmes.
Lead times, from first design to and more accurate, costs are lower, mistakes are minimised, and managing full production, are being cut by as much as half, to 18 months or even less, a large, complex inventory is much easier.
Approximately 11 per cent of compared with the traditional development period of around three years.
Pilkingtons annual total sales come from the AGR business.
Pilkington is involved in the design process from the start.
again this year, after completing the restructuring programme.
Production and sales from Pilkington operations increased as Sharing best practice across all businesses continues to strengthen they also serve as a manufacturing base for exports into the the infrastructure in North America, as evidenced by growing Groups distribution networks in North America and Europe.
business won with Toyota, Nissan and Honda and new business This sales improvement, combined with continued improvements secured with DaimlerChrysler.
However, due to the more in production efficiency, resulted in significantly improved competitive pricing in the AGR market, total operating profits profitability, despite high inflation and difficulties in cost recovery.
in North American Automotive fell by five per cent.
ASIA PACIFIC In Mexico, VVPs turnover in its automotive operations declined Results in Australia showed an improvement over last year in by about 20 per cent, due to competitive pressures in the a favourable trading environment as light vehicle production domestic market.
Sales to the OE market were down year-onincreased by eight per cent.
Profits improved once more, reflecting year due to weak demand in both domestic and export markets.
higher sales and continued manufacturing improvements and The current year decline in OE was compensated for by sales efficiency gains in the plants.
to the export AGR market, although pricing pressure in those The Chinese automotive market continues to grow rapidly with markets continues.
two million passenger cars built in China in calendar year 2003, double SOUTH AMERICA the level of 2002.
Pilkington is the leading international automotive Pilkingtons South American Automotive business represents five glass manufacturer in China, and is well positioned to service this per cent of the Groups Automotive operations worldwide.
South growing market with our automotive glass subsidiaries and associates American vehicle production increased by three per cent as vehicle providing wide geographical coverage.
Sales and profits increased over manufacturers built inventory for the expected increase in the the previous year and the plants are benefiting from increased economy, as well as for the export market.
integration into the Groups global Automotive organisation.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 19 Finance directors review Iain Lough Finance Director RESULTS FOR THE YEAR our 35 per cent owned associate in Mexico and to the weakness of Turnover the Mexican peso, while the results of Cebrace, our 50 per cent Despite challenging markets in both Building and Automotive joint venture with Saint-Gobain, were affected by the slowdown in Products, Pilkington sales were at a similar level to last year.
2004 2003 The detailed composition of the results, by geographic area m m and business line, can be seen in note 3 of the Summary Turnover Financial Statement.
Group companies 2,440 2,414 Joint ventures and associates 311 340 Exceptional items Total turnover 2,751 2,754 Exceptional items comprise losses of 7 million on disposals of businesses and the termination of operations, the most significant Operating profit being the loss on termination of the AGR operations in New Group companies 179 175 Joint ventures and associates 33 42 Zealand and the Building Products toughening and laminating Total operating profit 212 217 operations in Brazil.
Additionally, the Pilkington Aerospace Exceptional items 7 4 businesses were sold during the year but after the write off of Net interest payable 69 73 the goodwill previously taken against reserves of 4 million, Profit before taxation 136 140 no significant profit or loss arose.
Taxation 47 49 Profit after taxation 89 91 Interest payable and similar charges Minority interests 11 23 Net interest payable of 69 million was 4 million lower than Profit attributable to shareholders 78 68 the previous year.
Subsidiaries net interest charges were similar Dividends 63 63 to last year at 47 million 2003 45 million, despite refinancing US$309 million of preference shares with new loans in Retained profit of the Group 15 5 March 2003.
This was made possible by lower interest rates EPS excluding exceptional items 6.7p 5.8p and our ability to refinance at these lower interest rates and by EPS including exceptional items 6.2p 5.4p the significant improvement in our cash flow over the year.
Profit before taxation, exceptional items Our share of interest costs in joint ventures and associates and amortisation of goodwill 151 153 decreased by 6 million, mainly because of reduced exchange losses in VVP.
Operating profit Operating profit in Group businesses of 179 million for 2004 Interest costs of Group companies were covered more than three increased two per cent on the previous year.
In Building Products, times by operating profit, and nearly eight times by earnings challenging trading conditions in all major markets except the UK before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation of goodwill and Australia, together with another year of weak demand in US EBITDA.
commercial construction, were the main factors behind the drop in Taxation operating profit from 137 million to 120 million.
The tax charge of 47 million comprises current tax of 39 million However, in Automotive, profits increased from 67 million to and deferred tax of 8 million.
The tax charge as a percentage of 86 million, an improvement of 28 per cent.
This is due to success profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill fell to 31 per cent with new model introductions in Europe, higher shipments of compared with 32 per cent last year.
specialised components, and significant reductions in costs.
Minority interests Pilkingtons share of joint ventures and associates operating profit Profits attributable to minority interests were 11 million 2003 fell from 42 million to 33 million, a reduction of 21 per cent, 23 million, of which 9 million was equity minority interest and due to difficult conditions at Vitro Plan SA fide CV VVP, 2 million was non-equity minority interest.
20 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 Table 1 Cash flow 2004 2003 Chart 1 Net debt and gearing m m Net debt reduced by 28% in two years m Gearing % Operating profit Group companies 179 175 Add back: Depreciation and amortisation 190 188 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and goodwill amortisation EBITDA 369 363 Movement in working capital 23 19 Movement in provisions and exceptional items 15 15 Capital expenditure net of disposals 104 161 Operating cash flow 273 206 Dividends received 8 24 Net debt Preference shares Taxation and servicing of finance 74 95 Acquisitions and divestments 33 3 Net cash inflow before dividends, management of liquid resources and financing 240 138 Dividends paid 54 58 Net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing 186 80 Non-equity minority interests have fallen, as reported in 2003, as Sources of finance a result of the redemption of US$309 million of preference shares Pilkington is financed by a mix of cash flow from operations, issued by Pilkington Channel Islands Limited in March 2003.
In short-term borrowings and longer-term loans from banks, capital future it is envisaged that minority interests will remain at a similar markets, and finance leases.
Chart 2 shows the weighting of each level to this year.
Earnings per share Funding is also obtained from securitisation programmes, whereby Earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill receivables are sold to banks on a non-recourse basis.
Pilkington is increased from 6.5p to 7.4p, and basic earnings per share also not obliged to support losses on the non-recourse element of increased from 5.4p to 6.2p.
This is due to the lower interest, the receivables sold, which are usually around 65 to 90 per cent taxation and minority charges.
Dividends Liquidity management Dividends paid and proposed represent 5.0p per share, unchanged Pilkingtons funding policy is to ensure continuity of finance at from 2003.
The dividend is covered 1.2 times by attributable reasonable cost, based on committed funding, arranged for a range earnings after exceptional items.
CASH FLOW During the year Pilkington issued a US$200 million Private Pilkington has delivered a record year of cash generation.
Placement in the United States with seven, ten and 12 year Operating cash flow improved by 67 million from 206 million to tranches and arranged further bank bilateral facilities totalling 273 million as set out in Table 1.
This is due to continuing tight 153 million.
As a result of this refinancing activity, the control of working capital and lower expenditure on fixed assets, 260 million syndicated Revolving Credit Facility, which was partly due to a lighter programme of cold repairs affecting the float due to mature in December 2004, was cancelled and other smaller glass plants.
borrowing lines were allowed to mature.
Net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing At 31st March 2004, the average maturity of our committed rose from 80 million to 186 million, assisted by 40 million borrowings was six years, varying from one to more than 11 years.
proceeds from the divestment of the Pilkington Aerospace businesses.
At 31st March 2004, Pilkington had 433 million of unutilised Interest paid of 23 million was reduced by a cash inflow of committed facilities, with an average maturity of four years.
36 million arising from rearrangement of interest rate swaps.
This The maturity profile of our total committed facilities is depicted income is being amortised to the profit and loss account over eight in Chart 3. years in line with standard accounting practice.
The facilities due to mature in financial year 2005 total FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY 30 million, representing less than three per cent of total Net debt committed facilities.
Net debt of 664 million at the year end comprised gross debt of 756 million, less cash and marketable investments of 92 million.
Pilkington also has access to substantial uncommitted and shortThis is a net reduction in the year of 197 million and represents term facilities, used principally to manage day-to-day liquidity and clear success with one of Pilkingtons key strategic objectives.
In addition, pooling, netting and trends of reduction in net debt and gearing over the last two years concentration techniques are used where possible to minimise are set out in Chart 1. borrowings.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 21 2002 704 216 920 2003 861 2004 664 2002 116 2003 110 2004 86 Finance directors review continued Chart 3 Committed facilities: maturity profile Chart 2 Debt Sources m 13% Bank loans 31% Eurobond 50% US private placement 6% Finance leases The Group borrows principally in US dollars, euro and sterling, at The impact of a one per cent change in interest rates affecting all both fixed and floating rates of interest, using derivatives where our variable rate borrowings would be approximately 3 million.
appropriate, to generate the desired effective currency and interest Energy costs comprise around 20 per cent of the factory gate rate base.
The derivatives used for this purpose are principally interest production cost of float glass.
The Group operates a centralised rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
Speculative hedging programme to minimise the volatility of energy costs in trading of derivatives or financial instruments is not permitted.
Gas prices in the USA are particularly The Group has obtained long-term investment grade credit ratings volatile and are monitored closely and appropriate hedges put in from Moodys and Standard & Poors, the credit rating agencies.
Energy-related surcharges on Moodys rating is Baa2 stable outlook whilst Standard & Poors deliveries to North American customers have become established rating is BBB with negative outlook.
Both ratings are investment industry practice.
Moodys removed their previous negative outlook during POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS the year.
Several different pension schemes are operated in the major Pilkington aims to maintain investment grade credit ratings from territories in which Pilkington operates.
They are accounted for both agencies and the significant improvement demonstrated in our under SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
The disclosure cash flow and reduction in net borrowings should help underpin requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits are set out in the ratings.
note 38 to the Directors Report and Accounts.
Shareholders funds Rising longevity allied with the worldwide stock market values Shareholders funds and minority interests decreased slightly from continues to raise the profile of company pension obligations.
The decrease was principally due to nature of Pilkingtons pension obligations and the way they have exchange losses on the translation of overseas subsidiaries, joint been structured and managed over many years means that the risks ventures and associates exceeding the retained profit.
to the company have been substantially mitigated.
Treasury management Most Pilkington employees are members of defined contribution Treasury activities are centralised in the Groups head office in St. schemes, only ten per cent of the Groups employees being Helens.
Group Treasury is responsible for the provision of Group members of conventional defined benefit pension schemes.
The liquidity management, and for management of the Groups interest only significant funded defined benefit schemes in the Group and foreign exchange risks, operating within policies and authority are in North America, and they were closed to new members in limits approved by the board.
The board approves a defined set of the 1980s while benefits to existing members were frozen in financial counterparties, noted for their strong credit standing.
At 31st March 2004, on an FRS 17 basis, the North Treasury operations are reviewed annually by the Group Internal American schemes had a total deficit of 58 million.
Company Audit function to ensure compliance with Group policies.
contributions of approximately 9 million are anticipated next year.
Material foreign exchange transactions are hedged when reasonably Unfunded pension schemes, which are common in continental certain, usually through the use of foreign exchange forward contracts.
Europe, in Germany and Austria, are closed to new members and, being unfunded, are not affected by stock market movements.
Pilkington has manufacturing operations in 24 countries.
Assets are hedged where appropriate, by matching the currency of the debt to The Group also has obligations to fund post-retirement healthcare the net assets.
benefits, principally in the USA.
The FRS 17 based valuation of these obligations at 31st March 2004 was 169 million.
Exposure to interest rate fluctuations on our borrowings is managed by borrowing either on a fixed or floating rate basis and Pilkingtons obligations to fund this scheme are limited by an by entering into interest rate swaps or forward rate agreements.
agreed annual per capita cost increase of four per cent, with 1993 The policy objective is to have a target proportion, currently 30 to as the base year.
Retired members fund the difference between this 70 per cent of forecast net borrowings, hedged at all times.
At the limit and the actual level of healthcare inflation.
The scheme is end of March 2004, 55 per cent of borrowings were at fixed rates closed to new employees, although existing employees continue to for an average period of five years.
receive healthcare benefits on retirement.
22 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 2005 29 2006 105 2007 38 2008 298 2009 323 2010 49 2011 81 2012 8 2012 177 Table 2 Post-retirement benefits FRS 17 surplus deficit m Funded pension schemes UK North America 58 Other 1 Unfunded pension schemes Europe 163 Healthcare US 169 Total deficit as determined under FRS 17 389 Pension and post-retirement healthcare balances already provided under SSAP 24 264 Additional liability on adoption of FRS 17 125 Deficits are net of deferred tax Table 2 summarises the key aspects of the post-retirement benefit between our current accounting practices and IFRS will be in schemes at 31st March 2004. pensions and termination benefits, deferred taxation, research and development costs, dividends and profit and loss account disclosures.
ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSURANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORTING STANDARDS Pilkington has an established system of internal controls.
The The International Financial Reporting Standards Regulation, Internal Audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee adopted by the European Union EU, requires all EU listed and has a rolling audit programme to ensure optimal coverage of companies to use endorsed International Financial Reporting Group businesses.
A full risk assessment process is undertaken Standards IFRS, published by the International Accounting each year and the results are submitted to the Audit Committee.
Standards Board IASB, to report their consolidated results with effect from 2005 2006.
The IASB has undertaken an extensive CONTINGENCIES programme to develop new standards and improve existing ones.
In 1989, Pilkington Holding GmbH made an offer to acquire the This work is continuing and the development of the IFRSs to be minority interests in Pilkington Deutschland AG and Dahlbusch adopted in 2005 2006 will be finalised in 2004 after which the EU AG.
Certain minority shareholders rejected the offer as will complete its endorsement process.
The matter is in the hands of the German courts.
Pilkington has established a project to manage the transition In the case of Pilkington Deutschland AG, the initial decision from UK GAAP to IFRS, and work has been undertaken to of the court effectively increased the total amount at issue by identify changes to accounting policies and conduct training 10 million.
This decision is being appealed by Pilkington Holding courses in the new rules for Pilkington finance personnel GmbH and the minority shareholders.
In the case of Dahlbusch worldwide.
Business systems will require amendment and wider AG, no decision has yet been made.
business issues arising from these fundamental changes are being GOING CONCERN addressed.
The project is progressing in line with plans set out After considering the year end financial position and future 18 months ago and the Group expects to be fully prepared for the prospects of the company, the directors consider the company has transition at 1st April 2005. adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence At present, the full effect of adopting IFRS has not yet been for the foreseeable future and therefore it continues to adopt the quantified, but it appears that the most significant differences going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 23 Corporate social responsibility Pilkington seeks to achieve business success through professional, legal, fair, responsible and sustainable business practices.
The health and safety of employees, visitors and people living or working in communities adjacent to Pilkington operations and the protection of the environment, remain top priorities.
RESPONSIBILITIES Implementation of the Code of Conduct and distribution of The Pilkington Code of Conduct sets out the responsibility that supporting leaflets was completed for all Group businesses everyone working for the Group has for behaving in a legal and in 2003 apart from those in China, which have been addressed ethical manner in relationships with fellow employees, customers, during 2004. suppliers, business partners, the community and other stakeholders A reporting of concerns procedure enables employees to report in the business.
Understanding of the code is reinforced by a instances of illegal or improper behaviour by another member leaflet The Way we do Business, available in all the major of the Group or someone externally who is connected to the languages spoken in the countries where the Group operates.
Group, such as a supplier or contractor.
The procedure reinforces The code and the leaflet can be viewed on the company website.
the Groups commitment to maintaining the highest standards of honesty, openness and accountability by making clear what The group chief executive is responsible for all aspects of employees should do if they have a concern and by assurances that Corporate Social Responsibility CSR including health, safety any concerns expressed will be dealt with seriously and fairly.
and environmental issues and is personally informed of every lost time accident in the Group.
The executive board receives a report MANAGEMENT OF HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT on health, safety and environment at each of its meetings and at The health and safety of employees, contractors working on Pilkington three of these meetings during the year, discusses health and safety, premises, visitors and those living or working in communities adjacent environmental issues and wider aspects of CSR in more detail and to our operations are of paramount importance.
Organisational approves plans for improvements.
structures and procedures for the management of health, safety and environment HSE are in place to underpin this objective.
The board of directors and the individual Automotive and Building The group head of environmental affairs and safety, in addition Products business line boards also receive reports on health, safety to his Group role, also leads the global Building Products HSE and environmental issues at each of their meetings.
Each of the four Building Products regional businesses has The Group has a full-time head of environmental affairs and safety a senior HSE manager reporting to the head of the business and and another senior manager includes in his responsibilities the each large site employs a full-time professional HSE manager co-ordination of CSR issues.
reporting to the senior site manager.
Smaller sites have access to a shared professional resource.
RISK MANAGEMENT, COMPLIANCE AND REPORTING The arrangements in Automotive mirror those in Building Products OF CONCERNS with a head of HSE for Automotive worldwide providing the Group procedures for the review and management of risk include necessary global co-ordination.
CSR and have been used to help determine CSR policy and priorities.
Given the nature of the glass manufacturing process, The HSE professionals, wherever based, support each other and health, safety and the environment are top priorities.
provide a significant pool of specialised expertise for the Group as a whole.
To ensure that a consistent approach is taken across The effective application of the Pilkington Code of Conduct is Pilkington, the group head of environmental affairs and safety monitored through: chairs a global HSE team drawn from the two business lines.
statements of effective business control to which businesses Full participation in HSE matters is required at all levels and must adhere and the annual letter of representation which the formation of local safety committees of employees and their business heads sign to indicate that their businesses comply with representatives is encouraged.
These committees and specialists these statements.
The results of this process for the current year from engineering, technology and manufacturing work closely confirm a high level of compliance.
The level of compliance is with the professional HSE teams.
reviewed by the Audit Committee and appropriate action taken.
SAFETY PERFORMANCE regular on-site business audits carried out by the Groups Pilkington policy requires that all incidents are reported, not just Internal Audit function.
These include checks on the application those leading to accident and injury.
This is facilitated by an of the code and, from the coming year, checks on data collection intranet-based accident and incident reporting system which is relating to CSR employment standards.
accessible from all facilities worldwide apart from China.
24 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 Lost Time Accident Rate LTAR Number of lost time accidents per 200,000 hours worked by Pilkington employees and long-term contractors.
Safety performance is measured using two indices: the lost time personal decisions.
To emphasise their commitment, all executive accident rate LTAR, and the significant injury rate SIR.
A lost directors and senior managers worldwide have undergone basic time accident is an injury which prevents a person from returning training in behavioural safety and adopted personal objectives for to work on the following day or shift.
A significant injury is a less the programme.
Each business line includes a behaviour safety severe incident preventing someone from undertaking their normal element in their overall safety programme.
Both indices are based on 200,000 working hours equating Employees throughout Pilkington have access to occupational approximately to the time worked by 100 people in one year.
As part of the behavioural safety The Group LTAR for 2004 was 0.87, an improvement of programme, Pilkington encourages employees to recognise that 20 per cent over last year which adds to the significant their medical condition and its treatment may present additional improvements achieved over the last seven years.
The SIR is a risks to the safety of themselves or their colleagues and to report new index introduced in 2003 and data collection procedures are health-related issues in confidence to medical personnel.
The SIR for 2004 was 2.68, a two per cent ensures that health and safety managers can make suitable improvement based upon a revised figure for the previous year.
arrangements to ensure everyones wellbeing.
These improvements derive from the implementation of effective Procedures exist to ensure contractors follow safe working practices safety procedures and the positive response of employees throughout and integrate their working arrangements with those of Pilkington.
Examples of milestones reached during the year are: The safety training required by contractors is identified and their safety supervision and performance monitored.
All incidents Automotive plants at Clinton and Shelbyville in the USA involving contractors are notified and investigated as if they involved achieved two million man-hours without a lost time accident employees.
Contractors who fail to maintain the necessary and Building Products manufacturing operations in the UK standards are dismissed, as has happened on construction sites and at Laurinburg, USA achieved one million man hours.
in Brazil, Germany and Russia.
Building Products Sweden had no lost time accidents for ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 12 months across its nine sites and other sites in Building Energy and resource usage Products Europe such as Venlo, Waalwijk and Sheffield achieved Significant effort continues to be directed towards improving more than three years without a lost time accident, while environmental performance, with the efficient use of energy and Middlesborough achieved four years.
At the same time, environmental data is The total time lost as a result of accidents and work-related illness continuously reviewed and improved information is incorporated during the year was 6,400 man-days.
In line with LTAR and SIR when it becomes available.
statistics, these figures do not include long-term absence or Glass manufacturing is an energy intensive process.
However, invalidity beyond one year, nor absence unrelated to workplace energy usage is off-set by the contribution that sophisticated glass illness or injury.
products make to saving energy and the sustainability of the There were no fatal accidents on any Pilkington site during industry.
The contribution of Pilkington products is discussed the year.
Regrettably, a Polish employee died as a result of a in the section on relationships with customers.
car accident while on the way to meet a customer.
Diesel oil usage reported in the charts is predominantly that used Pilkington continues to pursue a rigorous safety risk assessment in the manufacturing process.
In addition, the North American process on all activities, enabling controls to be put in place to Automotive aftermarket business, with over 100 branches, is a ensure the risks posed by potential hazards are as low significant user of diesel oil for distributing product by vehicle as practicable.
and consumed 30 million litres in 2004.
In a diverse glass manufacturing business, the workforce has to Efforts to reduce water consumption have continued across the be protected from a wide range of workplace hazards.
However, Group, with a reduction of 15 per cent achieved.
Examples are: analysis of injuries shows that the majority derives from simple activities such as moving heavy weights, slips, trips and falls.
For In Australia, which is in an extended period of drought, the this reason, behavioural safety programmes focus on recognising Geelong site has reduced water consumption by 19 per cent by potential hazards and understanding the safety implications of installing a filtering and recycling plant to provide water for Pilkington plc annual review 2004 25 1997 6.8 1998 4.7 1999 3.4 2000 2.6 2001 1.9 2002 1.2 2003 1.1 2004 0.87 Corporate social responsibility continued Resource usage The charts below show the energy and other resource usage of the Group.
For presentational reasons the units vary according to resource.
updated figure cooling, washing and grinding and the Ingleburn float line is The second definition excludes carbon dioxide emitted during participating in the every drop counts water saving programme.
Emissions measured in this way amounted to three million tonnes in 2004, an increase of five per cent.
This Collingwood, Canada has introduced a new recycling scheme measure is closely related to glass production and, for a given to cut water consumption by 25 per cent and Versailles, USA output, can only be reduced by increasing the use of recycled glass has introduced water softeners to achieve significant reductions as a substitute for raw materials.
Recycling is, however, limited by in consumption.
the availability of recyclable glass of acceptable quality.
There was a 60 per cent increase in the quantity of glass bought in The increase in absolute carbon dioxide emissions results from for recycling.
Coupled with a 21 per cent reduction in the disposal increased float glass production of four per cent, the higher use of waste glass, this represents a significant reduction in the use of of diesel oil reported earlier and a significant increase in the glass primary resources.
area processed in the Automotive and Building Products Timber usage has also been reduced and in Brazil the use of downstream businesses.
timber from sustainable forestry has been encouraged with wooden Total waste material has been cut by 15 per cent although within packing cases now prominently indicating their sustainable origin.
this total there is a small increase in the quantity of hazardous Energy reduction programmes linked to reducing carbon dioxide waste, resulting from furnace rebuilds.
emissions have continued and include the further development of The quantities of material sent for recycling has fallen, reflecting cullet recycling programmes, for example, in Chile, Australia and improvements in internal materials usage.
Environmental programmes are also underway that have a direct Pilkington Energy Efficiency Trust impact on local communities.
Examples are: The Trust, established in 1999, provides financial support for research, testing or demonstration projects to improve energyAcoustic screening at Argentinean and Chilean plants has efficiency practices in buildings amongst building designers and reduced the noise impact on neighbours.
The projects do not have to be glass-related.
Improvements to the treatment of wastewater in Brazil have Pilkington donates to the Trust, run by a Board of Trustees increased the supply of good quality water downstream of independent of Pilkington, which selects projects for support.
Proposals come from universities, architectural practices, nongovernment organisations or energy-efficiency specialists.
Dandenong, Australia recycles almost all of its waste batch and cullet either internally or externally, thereby diverting potentially The Trust is now widely recognised as an important facilitator hazardous waste away from landfill sites.
This scheme has of research with an increasing number of applications received earned environmental awards from Victoria State and the each year.
Recent projects have included research into public Dandenong Chamber of Commerce.
understanding of climate change, development of techniques to increase the energy-efficiency of schools and the evaluation of The Lathrop, California plant received a notice of violation as technologies to increase the efficiency of solar energy used in a result of failing a stack test because of sulphur and particulate buildings.
Through the Trust, Pilkington believes it contributes emissions above the permitted level.
The issues surrounding to making buildings more energy efficient and sustainable.
sulphur dioxide were complex due to ambiguity in the permit wording but the plant paid a penalty of US$39,040 to the District Emissions Regulatory Authority.
Carbon dioxide emissions are defined in two ways, reflecting variations in policy in different countries.
The first includes carbon International environmental quality standards dioxide emitted directly by fuel combustion and decomposition 97 per cent of the Groups medium and large-scale manufacturing of certain raw materials in the glass-making process and by the sites in both business lines have been certified to ISO 14001, the generation of the electricity used in the process.
This definition, internationally recognised environmental standard.
These sites used in the chart on page 27, indicates carbon dioxide emissions account for over 70 per cent of business by turnover.
Work is in of four million tonnes in 2004, an increase of 7.4 per cent over progress to achieve accreditation of the remaining sites in this last year.
For presentational reasons the units vary according to emission product.
updated figure Legacy issues with the employment laws, regulations, industry standards and Pilkington continues to work with regulatory authorities worldwide local customs within the countries in which it operates and with on issues relating to historic industrial activity on and around relevant international guidelines.
In practice, the Group frequently Group premises.
exceeds the local and international requirements.
The continuing remedial work at the Ottawa float glass plant in These standards provide employees with reassurance on how Illinois involves the removal of historic contamination from two they will be treated and will lead to a more successful business neighbouring properties in accordance with a plan developed with through a committed, motivated and effective workforce.
the US Environmental Protection Agency.
The project has attracted A number of elements of the overall employment policy are media interest and a degree of public discussion.
In work of this reported upon here.
kind, the safety of neighbours and employees and the protection Representation of women in the workforce of the environment remain the greatest concern.
In 2004, women represented 15 per cent of the workforce, a level Partnership with government unchanged from last year.
The proportion of women in management In Europe, the Group has worked closely with governments, both roles remained at 12 per cent.
In the UK, 20 per cent of graduates directly and via trade associations, on the implications and practical recruited in 2004 were female compared to 40 per cent achieved aspects of the introduction of the EU Emissions Trading Directive.
over the previous three years.
This fall is a short-term feature and is not considered to be part of a trend.
In the UK, the existing voluntary agreements and the UK Emissions Trading Scheme have continued to provide useful Given relatively low levels of labour turnover and a generally lessons for the operation of our facilities.
So far, Pilkington has reducing working population, the proportion of women in the invested more than 7 million in research and development on workforce is not expected to change significantly, year to year.
energy and carbon dioxide reduction measures during the period The Group will continue to provide women with every opportunity of the UK climate change agreement.
to join the organisation and to develop their careers to their full potential.
By doing so, greater representation of women at all Pilkington continues to support measures to combat climate levels in the workforce will be encouraged.
change and, in principle, the concept of greenhouse gas trading.
The timescales and lack of clarity in the current EU proposals Employment of young people remain of concern.
These do not recognise the valuable The Group employs no young people under the age of 15.
It is also contribution made to climate change programmes by Pilkington uncommon for individuals under the age of 18 to be employed products e. g. energy efficient glass, nor the possibility that except on a temporary basis as part of their education studies.
reductions in greenhouse gases in the EU will be offset by increases in countries not bound by the Kyoto protocol.
Consultation and communication Throughout the Group, arrangements exist for communication The float lines in Venice, Sagunto and Freyming-Merlebach and consultation with employees at site level.
The nature of these participated in the REMAS pilot project sponsored by the arrangements varies according to the scale and circumstances at European Union to investigate the contribution of environmental each site.
management systems to improved environmental performance.
In Europe a region-wide European Forum meets annually to discuss RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS IN THE BUSINESS overall Group and business line strategy, business performance, the Employees business outlook and the implications for employees.
It is attended The Code of Conduct acknowledges internationally proclaimed by employee representatives, the group chief executive, business human rights and the impact these have on employment.
The line presidents and key senior management.
There are separate sixGroups overall employment policy contains minimum employment monthly meetings of sub-groups for Building Products and standards expected of all operations and employees and guides Automotive Products to discuss more detailed topics.
employment policy and practice in individual businesses.
The standards derive from external international human A formal system of regular communication and briefing ensures rights employment guidelines and the business requirements of all employees receive updates on Group and local business Pilkington.
They ensure that, as a minimum, the Group complies objectives, targets and best practice.
Every eight weeks, each Pilkington plc annual review 2004 27 CO 1,000 tonnes 2 2001 3,968 2002 3,896 2003 3,756 2004 4,034 NO 10 tonnes X 2001 1,706 2002 1,946 2003 1,881 2004 1,689 SO 10 tonnes X 2001 519 2002 496 2003 389 2004 326 Hazardous waste tonnes 2001 2,566 2002 2,353 2003 2,527 2004 2,957 Non hazardous waste 100 tonnes 2001 1,403 2002 2,457 2003 1,720 2004 1,424 Products for recycling 10 tonnes 2001 997 2002 1,124 2003 2,088 2004 1,941 Glass for recycling 1,000 tonnes 2001 206 2002 731 2003 702 2004 317 Corporate social responsibility continued employee receives a copy of Pilkington Focus in their own The Group continues to explore and extend the use of language and the Pilkington intranet is available to every employee e-learning as a means to make cost effective training available on the Group network providing information on all aspects of the to a wider audience.
CUSTOMERS Earnings Quality is a key feature of Pilkingtons relationship with industry There are no parts of the Group where earnings are less than the customers and end consumers encompassing design, development, legal minimum or the minimum set by the local industry.
manufacture, delivery, assembly, price, customer support and in-service use.
Working hours In 2004, no employee in the Group was contracted to work a High quality reduces waste throughout the supply chain thereby standard week in excess of the international guideline of improving efficiency for everyone and reducing adverse impacts 48 hours.
Three per cent of the workforce, at some stage in the on the environment.
In Pilkington, high quality is supported by year, voluntarily worked more than the international guideline of the use of rigorous quality management systems and standards.
This was not on a regular or Examples are: contractual basis.
The Automotive business is introducing a single global quality Discrimination and harassment management system which, during the last 12 months, has There were no reported and proven cases of discrimination in the been implemented in all manufacturing plants in Europe, Group during 2004.
One case of harassment was reported and after North America and South America, with external certification investigation was found to be proven.
This case was managed using subsequently achieved to the new TS 16949:2002 standard.
standard internal procedures and appropriate action was taken.
The Australian quality system will be rolled out and externally certified during the next 12 months.
Training and development All major Building Products manufacturing plants in Europe, The Group recognises the importance of training, retraining South America and Australasia have been accredited to and continuous development for all employees to support higher ISO 9001:2000.
North America aims to achieve the transition standards of performance, new technology and work practices from a local to the ISO standard in the coming year.
and the more demanding roles created by flatter organisational structures.
In Europe, Pilkington has pursued new European building industry standards that encourage consistently high product In 2004, the Group spent 4.5 million on formal, off-the-job quality.
These will come into force in the next year and will training and development, ranging from initiatives to meet specific provide compliance with the Construction Products Directive.
local business needs to Group programmes aimed at the longerterm development of international managers.
Health and safety Predictions are made of potential problems as products progress remains a critical element of training for everyone.
through the supply chain, in order to determine any manufacturing or product development necessary to avoid them.
This frequently On-the-job training is an effective means of raising plant involves working closely with vehicle manufacturers and architects performance which continues to enhance skills through planned at the vehicle or building design stage.
For instance, collaboration initiatives in the workplace.
For practical reasons, the resources with vehicle manufacturers seeks to minimise waste by recycling devoted to on-the-job training are not recorded.
which, in Europe, is driven by the End of Life Vehicles Directive.
A modular development programme for those in or approaching Pilkington provides customers with products that have safety, supervisory and junior management roles has made significant environmental and in-service benefits.
Over 260 people in the UK and USA have completed or are currently working through modules and the programme will be The Automotive product range includes: enhanced solar control launched in South America in the coming year.
Other subsequent glazing to reduce the load on air-conditioning systems and fuel launches are planned.
This programme complements existing, wellconsumption, flush glazing to reduce noise and fuel established initiatives aimed at the development of middle and consumption, laminated side-glazing to make break-ins more senior management across the Group.
difficult and acoustic glazing to reduce noise and driver stress.
28 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 From left to right.
Despatch glassworker Louis Karagaslis demonstrates the correct handling and safety equipment for the job as he inspects the fastenings on a consignment of glass at Dandenong, Australia.
Pilkingtons commitment to the broader communities in which it operates is well demonstrated here, where Group employees in Brazil help with the decorating and refurbishment of a primary school near one of the companys float glass plants.
Larry Hibbard, a Pilkington employee in Toledo in the USA, takes time out of his busy work schedule to take part in HOSTS Help One Student to Succeed.
The HOSTS programme is part of the Ohio Reads literacy initiative and this is Larrys fifth year helping the campaign to improve the reading skills of young children in Ohio.
Buildings account for over 40 per cent of the energy consumed The Group and its employees around the world work closely in developed countries and products such as Pilkington K with non-profit organisations on voluntary work programmes and TM TM Glass and Pilkington Optitherm reduce heat loss while charitable initiatives covering education, arts, medicine, welfare, TM TM Pilkington Optifloat Tint and Pilkington Suncool prevent job creation and urban renewal.
unnecessary heat build-up thereby reducing the load on airIn total, the Groups direct community-related contributions conditioning systems.
Pilkington T glass, a toughened product amounted to 458,000, complementing the significant inputs TM stronger than normal float glass and Pilkington Optilam, a of time and skills from employees.
Examples of these activities laminated glass with high impact resistance, make buildings during the year are: TM safer.
Pilkington Pyrostop protects people from and limits the TM spread of fire.
Pilkington Activ, a self-cleaning glass, reduces A donation of US$10,000 from Pilkington and the local the costs and dangers inherent in manual cleaning and the use of trade union was made in the USA to the Labor and Community TM detergents while Pilkington Optilam Phon, a laminated glass, Services scheme Adopt a Family.
Pilkington in Argentina donated glass valued at approximately US$35,000 to local community schools and hospitals.
Also, Customers are provided with guidance in the selection and employees each year help with the upkeep of a selected application of all products and in their safe handling and storage.
institution which this year involved 150 employees in the SUPPLIERS repair of a local school.
New procedures and criteria for the evaluation of new and existing Sponsorship for the 16th year of the Royal College of Art suppliers are being introduced in which suppliers will be asked Vehicle Design Awards in which Mohammed Arthur Ali, from to adhere to the CSR standards set out in the Pilkington Code the UK, won the best design interpretation category and Pratap of Conduct.
Where a standard is not being achieved, a plan of Bose, from India, won the innovative use of glazing category.
corrective action will be jointly agreed and its implementation jointly monitored.
Pilkington will provide support, where needed, Sponsorship of the Window on the World Award which was during implementation.
presented at the annual Women of the Year Assembly to Charlotte di Vita, founder of the ethical trading organisation The Group also works closely with suppliers to ensure that their which helps Third World workers find international markets products and services not only meet the necessary design, cost, for their products.
quality and performance requirements but are also backed by Support for Business in the Community initiatives in the UK recognised quality standards, appropriate environmental practices included helping school pupils to improve reading skills, pairing and safe working procedures.
managers and school heads to share problems, swap ideas and PILKINGTON IN THE COMMUNITY provide mutual support and assisting school pupils prepare for Pilkington aims to ensure that its worldwide operations play the world of work.
a responsible and responsive role in the local communities in Land, which was of a nominal value to the company, has been which it operates.
donated to a project undertaken by local organisations to provide Local businesses are responsible for consultation and dialogue affordable homes for 300 people aged over 55 in St. Helens, with their local communities as a means to ensure the Group UK.
The project partners include St. Helens Housing Association coexists harmoniously with its community partners to the benefit Limited which was founded by members of the Pilkington of all parties involved.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 29 Board of directors Sir Nigel Rudd Stuart Chambers Iain Lough Pat Zito William Harrison James Leng Oliver Stocken Christine Morin-Postel SIR NIGEL RUDD 57 CHAIRMAN banking has enabled him to give the board valuable advice on Appointed a non-executive director in 1994 and non-executive transactions and financing arrangements.
He is a member of the chairman in 1995.
He is non-executive chairman of Boots Group Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
At 31st March PLC and Pendragon PLC and a non-executive director of Barclays 2004 he was interested in 203,693 shares in the company.
Sir Nigels wide range of experience, including his executive JAMES LENG 58 leadership of Williams Holdings PLC, has been invaluable in Appointed a non-executive director in 1998.
He is a non-executive giving strategic direction to the Group.
He is a member of the chairman of Corus Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director Remuneration Committee and chairman of the Nomination of IMI plc, Alstom SA, and Lennox Managements Limited.
At 31st March 2004 he was interested in 1,962,142 appointment as a non-executive director of Hanson PLC with effect shares in the company.
from 1st June 2004 has been announced.
The experience he has STUART CHAMBERS 48 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE obtained in executive and non-executive roles in other capital Appointed an executive director in January 2001 and group chief intensive industries has been particularly helpful to the board.
He joined Pilkington in 1996, as group is chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is a member of vice president, Marketing & Business Development, Building the Audit and Nomination Committees.
At 31st March 2004 he was Products.
In 1998 he was promoted to the post of managing interested in 229,472 shares in the company.
director, Primary Products Europe, and subsequently became OLIVER STOCKEN 62 president, Building Products Worldwide.
He is a non-executive Appointed a non-executive director in 1998.
He is non-executive director of Associated British Ports Holdings PLC.
He is a member chairman of Rutland Trust plc, non-executive deputy chairman of the Nomination Committee.
At 31st March 2004 he was of 3i Group plc and a non-executive director of Rank Group Plc, interested in 682,736 shares in the company.
GUS plc, Novar plc and Stanhope PLC.
His appointment as a nonIAIN LOUGH 57 executive director of Standard Chartered PLC with effect from Appointed an executive director in January 2002.
He joined 1st June 2004 has been announced.
The board has benefited greatly Pilkington in 1993 as group financial controller.
In 1995 he was from his general and strategic advice based on his substantial appointed head of group finance and in 1998 he was appointed boardroom and commercial experience.
He is the senior independent chief financial officer for Building Products Worldwide.
He is director, chairman of the Audit Committee and is a member of the group finance director.
His appointment as a non-executive Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
At 31st March 2004 director of Wilson Bowden plc with effect from 1st September he was interested in 348,164 shares in the company.
At 31st March 2004 he was interested CHRISTINE MORIN-POSTEL 57 in 304,558 shares in the company.
She is a non-executive PAT ZITO 55 director of 3i Group plc and Alcan Inc.
In 2003 she retired as Appointed an executive director in May 2002.
He joined executive vice-president in charge of group human resources at Pilkington in 1985 as finance director of the Groups Australian Suez Group and prior to undertaking such role was chief executive operations.
He was appointed president, Automotive OE Europe officer of Socit Gnrale fide Belgique.
Her knowledge of in 1997 and president, Automotive OE Europe and North America continental European markets and her experience in general in October 2001.
He is responsible for the Automotive business management and human resources has been of great benefit to worldwide.
At 31st March 2004 he was interested in 463,524 the board.
She is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and shares in the company.
At 31st March 2004 she was interested in 15,940 shares in the company.
WILLIAM HARRISON 55 Appointed a non-executive director in 1998.
He is a director of Compass Partners Advisers Limited, an external member of the There have been no changes in directors interests in the share advisory committee of Pinsents and a member of the advisory capital of the company between 31st March 2004 and the board of Moore Clayton LLC.
His experience in investment announcement of the Groups results on 26th May 2004.
30 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 Summary directors report The following pages are a summary of the information contained In accordance with the companys Articles of Association Stuart in the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st Chambers and James Leng will retire by rotation at the annual March 2004.
The summary financial statement does not contain general meeting and will offer themselves for re-election.
sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE results and state of affairs of the company and of the Group as With the appointment of Oliver Stocken as senior independent would be provided by the full annual report and accounts.
director on 14th May 2003 the company has been in full compliance with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code of Best BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND DEVELOPMENT Practice contained in the Combined Code published in June 1998.
Pilkington is a leading worldwide producer of flat and safety glass and a successful innovator of products and processes in the glass Although the company is not obliged to comply with the industry.
The Group serves the building and automotive markets.
requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 until The Chairmans Statement, comment on recent events and likely the financial year ending 31st March 2005, the board has decided future developments, and a summarised business review appear to adopt the principles and practices detailed in such Combined in other parts of this document.
A more detailed report on corporate governance DIRECTORS is contained in the Directors Report and Accounts.
The names, biographical details and photographs of the directors AUDITORS are on page 30.
The auditors report on the full annual accounts of the Group Andrew Robb and Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel retired as directors at the for the year ended 31st March 2004 is unqualified and does not conclusion of the annual general meeting held on 28th July 2003. contain any statement concerning accounting records or failure to obtain necessary information or explanations.
Christine Morin-Postel was appointed to the board on 1st August 2003 and will offer herself for election as a director at the annual The statutory financial statements will be delivered to the general meeting.
Registrar of Companies in due course.
Summary remuneration report INTRODUCTION the company secretary and executives who report directly to the This report to shareholders outlines the membership and workings group chief executive in his capacity as group chief executive.
of the Remuneration Committee and provides an explanation of In addition, it determines and approves annual and long-term the various elements of the remuneration policy.
The report also incentive plans, including setting appropriate performance targets, outlines how the executive and non-executive directors were and determines the policy relating to the grant of options under remunerated during the year.
the senior executives share option schemes.
The full terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys The full report on directors remuneration, contained in the website.
Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st March The committee met five times during the year to 31st March 2004, 2004, will be put to shareholders for approval at the annual and at its request, the group chief executive and the company general meeting of the company to be held on 20th July 2004. secretary were invited to attend committee meetings except when 2004 remuneration key points matters relating to their own remuneration and service agreements The executive directors, excluding Andrew Robb who retired on were under discussion.
The group human resources director acted 28th July 2003, invested their entire annual bonuses as secretary to the committee.
The committee has selected Deloitte & Touche LLP to advise it The performance awards under the Leadership Equity Award on remuneration practice.
During the year, Deloitte & Touche LLP Plan made in 2001 will not vest as the minimum earnings per also provided advice to the board on non-executive directors share growth will not be met.
remuneration and advised the company on the expensing of share None of the executive directors were eligible for share options, options and on proposed changes affecting pensions.
Advice was except under the savings-related scheme.
also received from the group human resources director and the Each executive director has a 12 month contract with the company.
group compensation and benefits manager.
There were no changes made to executive directors pension arrangements.
The principal matters considered by the committee during the New higher shareholding targets for executive directors and year were: senior management were implemented.
Annual review of salaries for executive directors and certain senior management.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Targets and results for annual incentive plans for The members of the committee are James Leng Chairman, executive directors.
Sir Nigel Rudd, William Harrison, Oliver Stocken and Christine Performance targets for long-term incentive plans.
Grant of executive share options and awards under the The committee determines the overall remuneration policy for Leadership Equity Award Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan.
executive directors and for other senior executives within the Group Share ownership and higher shareholding targets for executive and sets the remuneration packages of individual executive directors, directors and senior management.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 31 Summary remuneration report continued POLICY ON REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS Annual performance-related bonus Objectives of the remuneration policy Each executive director participates in an annual performanceThe objectives of the remuneration policy are to ensure that related incentive scheme.
The current years plan for the executive remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed in directors, including the group chief executive, provided for a such a way as to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of maximum bonus opportunity of 60 per cent of salary.
The policy aims to ensure that individual rewards committee establishes the performance criteria and sets the and incentives are aligned with the performance of the Group and appropriate bonus parameters.
The incentive plans are based the interests of the shareholders and reflect the contribution of the wholly on challenging financial performance targets relating to individuals concerned.
the annual budget which is approved by the board.
The plans for Stuart Chambers, Iain Lough and Andrew Robb were based on The committee aims to align its remuneration policy with the Group profit and Group cash flow improvement.
The plan for Pat short-term goals as well as the medium to long-term strategy of the Zito was based on Group profit and cash flow improvement and Group.
Salary and benefit packages are set at market competitive also Automotive worldwide profit and cash flow improvement.
levels, and annual performance-related payments are assessed Performance against the targets set is reviewed by the committee at against the achievement of key financial targets.
Share based longregular intervals during the year.
No bonus is paid to the executive term incentives are used to align the interests of the senior directors if the agreed minimum targets are not met and bonus executive group with those of shareholders.
This is achieved by payments to the executive directors are not pensionable.
Bonuses linking executive awards to the creation of shareholder value, were awarded on 25th May 2004 following sign off by the auditors.
currently focusing on the growth in earnings per share and the For 2004, the bonus payable to executive directors amounts to generation of free cash flow.
Stuart Chambers, Iain Lough and Andrew Robb earned The remuneration policy also encourages personal investment in 50 per cent of salary and Pat Zito earned 48.5 per cent of salary.
company shares and continued share ownership in line with the Each of the current executive directors has agreed to invest all his companys shareholding targets for executive directors and senior bonus in the companys shares.
None of the current executive directors management, and participation in the long-term incentive plans have taken a bonus in cash since their appointment to the board.
requires executives to invest part or all of their annual bonus.
Long-term incentive plan This policy is expected to continue in future years.
The company has a long-term incentive plan that operates The remuneration arrangements meet with the provisions of the internationally.
This is known as the Leadership Equity Award Combined Code published in June 1998.
Plan LEAP, which was approved by the shareholders at the annual general meeting in July 2000 and was introduced in 2001.
The main components of the executive directors remuneration The plan has been designed to provide geared levels of reward in The normal remuneration arrangements for executive directors the form of company shares for the achievement of exceptional consist of salary, annual financial performance-related bonus, a company performance.
long-term incentive programme the Leadership Equity Award Plan and benefits which include company car, medical insurance Executive directors and selected senior executives are invited by and pension entitlement.
A significant proportion of the remuneration the committee to participate in LEAP.
Participants are invited to of the executive directors is linked to corporate and individual invest all or a proportion of their annual after tax bonus in the performance.
The executive directors are not eligible to participate in companys shares.
If the participants remain in employment and the the Deferred Bonus Plan or the senior executives share option purchased shares are retained for three years, the company will schemes whilst participating in the Leadership Equity Award Plan.
match their investment with additional shares.
The matching by the company is made up of a core award and a performance award.
Salary The committee reviews the salary for each executive director in The core award consists of shares to the value of one times the April each year.
The policy is to broadly align salaries with market participants gross annual bonus deferred using the same share medians.
However, account is taken of salary increases across the price that applied at the time of purchase.
The extent of the Group and salaries are set by reference to the companys performance award will depend upon the achievement of performance, the individuals performance including experience in stretching performance targets for the Group over the three year the role and external market information which is provided by the period.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting committees independent adviser.
Base salary is the only element the performance criteria and targets and takes independent advice of the executive directors remuneration that is pensionable.
The committee considers earnings per share before 2001 Plan 2002 Plan 2003 Plan Award level 2002 2004 2003 2005 2004 2006 Core and performance awards Core award 1.0 x gross bonus invested Performance awards Free cash aggregate over 3 years EPS EPS EPS 75% flow 25% Entry 24.9p 22.6p 21.2p 241 million 0.5 x gross bonus invested Maximum 29.7p 26.9p 27.1p 300 million 2.5 x gross bonus invested i Each plan is based on a three-year period.
ii The 2003 plan is split 75%:25% between aggregate EPS growth and free cash flow generation over three years.
iii EPS numbers were adjusted to comply with the adoption of FRS 19. iv EPS and free cash flow achievements above the maximum targets pay no more than 2.5x gross bonus invested.
32 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 exceptional items EPS to be one of the key fundamental financial companys shares, the value of these shares being equivalent to measures on which the financial value of the company is assessed 1.2 times the gross value of his annual bonus originally deferred.
over the medium to long-term.
The use of aggregate EPS is The award is exercisable after three years provided the participant considered a suitably challenging criterion in the current economic remains in employment and retains his purchased shares for a three environment, and is understood by all international participants.
The shares purchased by the executive directors for The EPS is calculated as fully diluted earnings per share adjusted this plan are included in the details of directors shareholdings on for exceptional items and the committee believes that this method page 30.
During the year under review Stuart Chambers, Iain of calculation provides an independent and verifiable measure Lough and Pat Zito exercised all their awards under this plan and of the companys performance.
A minimum level of EPS must accordingly have no future participation in this plan as long as they be achieved for any performance award to vest.
The level of participate in LEAP.
performance awards made will depend on the extent of the Share option schemes achievement of the targets set whereby awards will vest between Prior to the introduction of LEAP in 2001, the executive directors entry level and maximum on a linear basis.
Should these demanding were eligible to receive share options under the executive share targets be met in full, the performance award will be two and a option schemes.
These options entitled the executive director to half times the gross annual bonus deferred.
buy company shares at a fixed exercise price.
The ability to exercise this option is dependent upon the achievement of pre-determined The performance targets for the LEAP performance awards issued performance targets based on growth in earnings per share over in 2001 and 2002 are based on aggregate EPS over a three year changes in the retail price index RPI.
The target set by the committee period.
For the 2001 plan the performance awards will not vest in respect of these options granted before December 2002 was RPI because the minimum aggregate EPS of 24.9p was not met.
Therefore plus two per cent per annum.
If these performance targets are met participants will not receive any performance awards under the plan.
for the prescribed three year performance period, the options will Given the Groups strategy on the generation of free cash flow as be exercisable after three years and up to ten years from the date well as profit, the committee considered whether it was appropriate of grant.
Options are only exercisable after the committee has to include a cash component in the 2003 LEAP plan.
Having reviewed and confirmed that the performance condition has been consulted with Deloitte & Touche LLP the committee decided met.
None of the executive directors exercised any options under that it was appropriate to include a specific cash measure within these share option schemes during the year to 31st March 2004. this plan.
The committee considered the generation of actual free The approval of the senior executives share option schemes cash flow before any exceptional gains or losses to be a suitable expires in 2004 and it is proposed to extend the term of these measurement in determining management effectiveness in generating schemes on the same conditions.
During this year, the committee sustainable cash within the business.
This aligns with the stated will be reviewing the role of share options within the Groups policy of generating cash for the repayment of debt.
As the Groups remuneration arrangements.
focus turns to investing for growth, the committee will, at that time, examine the continued appropriateness of the perfomance The Group also operates a savings-related share option scheme elements under this plan.
However the committee felt that aggregate for all UK employees, which includes the executive directors.
This EPS should remain the key measure of management effectiveness scheme was last renewed for ten years at the annual general meeting and therefore approved the 2003 plan on the basis of 75 per cent in 2002.
The invitation to participate in this scheme made in June aggregate EPS and 25 per cent free cash flow.
The performance 2003 offered a three, five, or seven year contract with an exercise targets are set out in the table on page 32. price set at a discount of ten per cent on the applicable market price.
In determining the EPS target for the 2003 plan 2004-2006, the An all-employee share ownership plan now known as a share actual 2003 EPS is used as a base and ten per cent compound growth incentive plan was approved by shareholders at the annual general is used to determine the minimum target and 24 per cent used to meeting in July 2000.
No invitations or awards have yet been made fix the maximum target.
The committee believes that these targets under this plan.
are a reflection of the current economic conditions and represent Share ownership stretching challenges for the management of the business.
The EPS The board strongly believes in the value of employee share ownership numbers were adjusted to comply with the adoption of FRS 19. in order to continually align the interests of employees with those The committee considered the objective of cash generation to be of shareholders and for a number of years has given share ownership the achievement of free cash on a consistent basis and believes this targets to the executive directors and certain senior executives.
to be critical to the delivery of shareholder value in the long-term.
The participants in this plan are not eligible to participate in the During 2003, the target for the group chief executive was increased Deferred Bonus Plan or the senior executives share option to 500,000 shares and for other executive directors to 300,000 with schemes.
Core awards vest after three years.
Performance awards a target achievement date of June 2004.
Increased targets were also only vest after the committee has reviewed and confirmed that implemented for senior executives.
The revised targets for the performance against the conditions set has been met.
executive directors have now been met and the committee intends to continue reviewing the progress against targets on a regular The Deferred Bonus Plan basis and setting new targets.
Prior to the introduction of LEAP in 2001, the executive directors were eligible to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
Under this Pensions plan the executive director was able to invest part or all of his All executive directors are entitled to a pension on retirement and annual after tax bonus in company shares.
In return the company such pensions are calculated in a similar way to pensions provided granted the executive director a nil cost option to acquire the under the Pilkington Superannuation Scheme.
The pension Pilkington plc annual review 2004 33 Summary remuneration report continued arrangements for the executive directors are affected by the Inland service agreements, but do have letters of appointment for a term, Revenue cap on approved pension benefits.
Their arrangements are which expires in the case of James Leng on 10th September 2004 determined on an individual basis and are in part funded through and in the case of Christine Morin-Postel on 31st July 2006. the Pilkington Superannuation Scheme or personal pension plans Policy on external appointments with the unapproved balance being provided through the Pilkington The committee believes that the company can benefit from its Unfunded Top-Up Scheme.
Different arrangements applied for executive directors holding non-executive appointments and also Andrew Robb who retired from the board on 28th July 2003 and believes that this represents a valuable opportunity in terms of from the company on 31st December 2003. personal and professional development.
Such appointments are Service agreements subject to the approval of the board and it is the companys practice It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee that executive that each executive director may only accept one such appointment, directors should have contracts terminable by no more than one and that fees from that appointment may be retained by the years notice.
All existing executive directors have a contract executive director concerned.
Stuart Chambers holds a nonwith a notice period of no more than one year.
executive directorship with Associated British Ports Holdings PLC.
Andrew Robb held a role as a non-executive director with Alfred Details of the terms of the contracts of each of the executive McAlpine plc up to 22nd May 2003 and became a non-executive directors are shown in the table set out below.
director of Kesa Electricals plc with effect from 1st June 2003.
In the event of termination by the company, other than for misconduct, Neither Pat Zito nor Iain Lough hold non-executive directorships.
each directors service agreement provides for a maximum payment of Policy on remuneration of the chairman and non-executive 12 months pay and benefits.
In the case of the existing executive directors directors those benefits, which are specifically covered by this The remuneration of the chairman is determined by the committee arrangement, include pension arrangements, private healthcare and and the remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined the provision of a company car.
The Articles of Association contain a limit on the Details of the director seeking election and the directors retiring by aggregate remuneration.
They are not eligible for performancerotation and seeking re-election are referred to on page 31.
Stuart related bonuses or awards under long-term incentive plans and no Chambers has a service agreement, which expires on 25th May pension contributions are made on their behalf.
Since June 2000, 2016, unless termination occurs earlier in accordance with its the annual fees for the chairman and the non-executive directors provisions.
James Leng and Christine Morin-Postel do not have have been paid exclusively in shares.
Date of Notice period Unexpired term to service agreement from company normal retirement date Stuart Chambers 3rd December 2002 12 months 12 years Iain Lough 7th February 2003 12 months 2 years 8 months Pat Zito 3rd December 2002 12 months 4 years 8 months EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The remuneration of the executive directors, excluding pension contributions, is summarised in the table below: 2004 2003 Salary Other Annual Loss of Total Salary Other Annual Loss of Total 5 benefits bonus office benefits bonus office 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 6 Stuart Chambers 575 25 287 887 521 26 182 729 Iain Lough 315 24 158 497 280 19 93 392 1 Pat Zito 314 107 152 573 253 85 107 445 2 Andrew Robb 118 7 59 184 340 22 112 474 3 Paolo Scaroni 173 173 4 Warren Knowlton 147 47 1,800 1,994 1,322 163 656 2,141 1,714 199 494 1,800 4,207 1 Appointed to the board on 28th May 2002 and remuneration in 2003 reflects his promotion to the board.
2 Retired as an executive director on 28th July 2003 and the specified remuneration here is in respect of the period in which he was a director.
3 Resigned as an executive director on 30th June 2002.
Denominated in US dollars and translated into sterling at an average exchange rate of US$1.55: 5 With the exception of Andrew Robb, executive directors will use these bonuses to purchase shares for their participation in LEAP.
6 Remuneration reflects appointment as group chief executive from 28th May 2002.
Other benefits set out in the executive directors remuneration table 28th July 2003, included private healthcare and a cash allowance of incorporate all tax assessable benefits arising from employment by 5,000 in lieu of the provision of a company car.
The major benefits are the provision of a company During the year ended 31st March 2004 Stuart Chambers received car and private healthcare for Stuart Chambers, Iain Lough and Pat an amount of 32,500 in respect of his services as a non-executive Zito.
In addition, because Pat Zito is an expatriate based in the director of Associated British Ports Holdings PLC.
Andrew Robb United Kingdom, he receives further benefits in accordance with received an amount of 4,718 in respect of his services as a nonGroup policy including 84,000 for the provision of executive director of Alfred McAlpine plc and an amount of accommodation.
6,667 in respect of his services as a non-executive director of The benefits for Andrew Robb, who retired as a director on Kesa Electricals plc.
34 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 CHAIRMANS AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS and non-executive directors for 2004 are shown below.
The REMUNERATION disclosure under the heading aggregate value of shares allotted and The chairman and all non-executive directors are paid exclusively to be allotted at the reference price of 50.52p includes the shares in shares, which they are required to hold for four years, other than allotted in June 2003 and December 2003 at such reference price to the extent necessary to fund their tax liability on receipt of the and the shares to be allotted in June 2004 at such reference price in shares.
The details of the remuneration paid and due to the chairman respect of the period from 1st December 2003 to 31st March 2004.
2004 2003 Aggregate Market Number of Aggregate Aggregate Number of number of value shares to be value of shares value of shares shares allotted shares allotted of allotted allotted in allotted and to allotted at in respect of in June 2003 shares June 2004 be allotted at the reference year ended and December on dates of the reference price of 31st March 1 2 2003 allotment price of 50.52p 117.53p 2003 000 000 000 Sir Nigel Rudd 332,536 290 166,268 252 252 214,416 Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel 26,920 22 14 39 32,676 William Harrison 53,840 47 26,920 41 39 32,676 James Leng 69,672 61 34,836 53 47 40,326 Oliver Stocken 69,672 61 34,836 53 47 40,326 Christine Morin-Postel 26,920 25 26,920 27 Paolo Scaroni 42 35,735 579,560 506 289,780 440 466 396,155 It should be noted that: 1 The share prices at close of business on 2nd June 2003 and 1st December 2003, the dates of allotment, as shown by the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, were 72.5p and 93p respectively.
2 The share prices at close of business on 6th June 2002, 2nd December 2002 and 2nd June 2003, the dates of allotment, as shown by the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, were 101p, 65.75p and 72.5p respectively.
3 During the year ended 31st March 2004 the highest and lowest share prices at close of business, as shown by the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, were 100.25p and 49.25p respectively.
4 The share price at close of business on 31st March 2004, as shown by the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, was 89.5p.
DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS AND OTHER BENEFITS The aggregate emoluments and other benefits of the directors of the company set out below are disclosed in accordance with Part 1 of Schedule 6 to the Companies Act 1985.
2004 2003 Aggregate emoluments 2,581,000 2,873,000 Gains made on exercise of share options 507,914 1,048,870 Amounts paid under long-term incentive schemes Compensation for loss of office 1,800,000 Pension contributions to money purchase schemes Three executive directors are accruing retirement benefits under defined benefit schemes.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Summary FTSE 250 index of companies, of which the company is one of Financial Statement Amendment Regulations 2002, below is a line the constituent companies.
In this context shareholder return graph comparing the total shareholder return of the company over reflects share price movements and assumes all dividends are rethe last five years with the total shareholder return of the invested in the companys shares at the relevant ex-dividend date.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR 5-YEAR GRAPH 1999-2004 COVERING THE PERIOD FROM 1st APRIL 1999 TO 31st MARCH 2004 250 200 PILKINGTON 150 FTSE 250 INDEX 100 3-MONTH MOVING AVERAGE 50 March 1999 March 2000 March 2001 March 2002 March 2003 March 2004 FINANCIAL YEARS ENDED Pilkington plc annual review 2004 35 TSR RE-BASED TO 1st APRIL 1999 Group profit and loss account For the year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 Note m m Turnover continuing operations Group turnover 3 2,440 2,414 Share of joint ventures and associates turnover 311 340 Turnover including joint ventures and associates 2,751 2,754 Operating profit Groups continuing operations 3 179 175 Share of joint ventures and associates 33 42 Operating profit including joint ventures and associates 212 217 Exceptional items 5 Loss on disposal termination of continuing operations: Loss on disposal termination 9 3 Previous provision utilised 2 1 7 2 Loss on disposal of fixed assets and investments in continuing operations 2 7 4 Profit before investment income and interest 205 213 Investment income 1 Net interest payable and similar charges 69 74 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 136 140 Taxation 47 49 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 89 91 Minority interests including non-equity 11 23 Profit attributable to shareholders 78 68 Dividends 63 63 Retained profit of the Group 15 5 Directors emoluments 3 3 Earnings per share basic 6.2p 5.4p Fully diluted earnings per share basic 6.2p 5.4p 36 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 Summary group balance sheet As at 31st March 2004 2004 2003 m m Assets employed Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 139 158 Tangible fixed assets 1,380 1,520 Investments joint ventures, associates and trade investments 176 181 1,695 1,859 Current assets Stocks 354 383 Debtors 418 464 Investments marketable 52 33 Cash at bank and in hand 40 42 864 922 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 605 670 Net current assets 259 252 Total assets less current liabilities 1,954 2,111 Financed by Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 662 793 Provisions for liabilities and charges 465 516 1,127 1,309 Deferred income 56 21 1,183 1,330 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 637 630 Reserves 40 54 Total equity shareholders funds 677 684 Minority interests including non-equity 94 97 1,954 2,111 The financial statements on pages 36 to 40 were approved by the directors on 26th May 2004.
Directors Sir Nigel Rudd, I. P. Lough.
Statement of total recognised gains and losses For the year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 m m Profit attributable to shareholders of Pilkington plc 78 68 Other recognised losses: Exchange rate movements on foreign currency net investments 36 33 Total recognised gains relating to the year 42 35 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 37 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds For the year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 m m Profit attributable to shareholders of Pilkington plc 78 68 Dividends 63 63 Exchange rate movements on foreign currency net investments 36 33 Goodwill written back 4 Shares issued 7 3 Premium on shares issued 3 2 Net decrease in shareholders funds for the year 7 23 Shareholders funds at beginning of the year 684 707 Shareholders funds at end of the year 677 684 Summary group cash flow statement For the year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities note 6 377 367 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 8 24 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 26 73 Taxation paid 48 22 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure 104 161 207 135 Net cash inflow from acquisitions and disposals 33 3 Net cash inflow before dividends, management of liquid resources and financing 240 138 Equity dividends paid by parent company 54 58 Net cash inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 186 80 Management of liquid resources 23 20 Net cash outflow from financing 161 74 Increase decrease in cash 2 14 Free cash flow Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt For the year ended 31st March 2004 2004 2003 m m Net debt at beginning of the year 861 704 Increase decrease in cash in the year 2 14 Cash inflow from management of liquid resources 23 20 Net decrease increase in loans 151 144 Net increase decrease in obligations under finance leases 19 19 Change in composition of the Group 1 Exchange rate adjustments 39 38 Net debt at end of the year note 7 664 861 38 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 Notes on the summary financial statement 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES These results have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies, which have been consistently applied.
2004 2003 2 RECONCILIATION TO NON-STATUTORY DISCLOSURES m m a Profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and taxation Profit before taxation 136 140 Goodwill amortisation 8 9 Exceptional items 7 4 151 153 b Earnings excluding exceptional items Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 78 68 Exceptional items after tax and minority interest 7 4 85 72 c Earnings excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 78 68 Goodwill amortisation 8 9 Exceptional items after tax and minority interest 7 4 93 81 millions millions Average number of shares for basic earnings per share calculation 1,260 1,248 Average number of shares for fully diluted earnings per share calculation 1,263 1,250 pence pence Adjusted earnings per share excluding exceptional items 6.7 5.8 Adjusted fully diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items 6.7 5.8 Adjusted earnings per share excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 7.4 6.5 Adjusted fully diluted earnings per share excluding amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items 7.4 6.5 2004 2003 Turnover Operating Turnover Operating profit loss profit loss 3 CONTINUING OPERATIONS m m m m Building products 1,221 120 1,216 137 Automotive products 1,166 86 1,183 67 Group operations and technology management 53 19 15 20 Goodwill amortisation 8 9 2,440 179 2,414 175 Segmental analysis with goodwill amortisation analysed to business lines: Building products 1,221 116 1,216 132 Automotive products 1,166 82 1,183 63 Group operations and technology management 53 19 15 20 2,440 179 2,414 175 Europe 1,503 115 1,458 134 North America 565 34 651 25 Rest of the world 319 49 290 36 Group operations and technology management 53 19 15 20 2,440 179 2,414 175 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 39 Notes on the summary financial statement continued 2004 2003 4 NET OPERATING ASSETS LIABILITIES OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS m m Building products 750 822 Automotive products 534 638 Group operations and technology management 22 2 Goodwill 139 158 1,445 1,616 Segmental analysis with goodwill analysed to business lines: Building products 840 920 Automotive products 583 698 Group operations and technology management 22 2 1,445 1,616 Europe 959 1,065 North America 230 286 Rest of the world 234 267 Group operations and technology management 22 2 1,445 1,616 5 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS These comprise losses on the sale and termination of operations of 7 million 2003 2 million primarily arising from the termination of the Automotive Glass Replacement business in New Zealand and losses on the disposal of fixed assets and investments of nil 2003 2 million.
2004 2003 6 RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES m m Operating profit 179 175 Depreciation and amortisation 190 188 Movements in working capital: Stocks and work in progress 1 32 Debtors 4 7 Creditors 18 20 Provisions 9 14 Other items 2 1 Net cash inflow from operating activities before exceptional items 385 369 Exceptional items termination of operations 8 2 Net cash inflow from operating activities 377 367 2004 2003 7 NET DEBT m m Loans and overdrafts 709 907 Finance leases 47 29 Gross borrowings 756 936 Less cash and marketable investments 92 75 Net debt 664 861 40 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 Independent auditors statement to the shareholders of Pilkington plc We have examined the summary financial statement of no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to Pilkington plc.
the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised annual Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary in other jurisdictions.
financial statement within the summarised annual review with the Basis of opinion annual financial statements, the directors report and the report We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The on directors remuneration and its compliance with the relevant auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by requirements of section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the summarised annual review and Opinion consider the implications for our report if we become aware of In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the the annual financial statements, the directors report and the report summary financial statement.
on directors remuneration of Pilkington plc for the year ended 31st March 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations only for the companys members as a body in accordance with made thereunder.
section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
 LLP The maintenance and integrity of the Pilkington website is the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by us does not London involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept 26th May 2004 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 41 Shareholder information The summary financial statement does not contain sufficient PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS DIRECTLY INTO BANK ACCOUNTS information to allow as full an understanding of the results If you currently receive dividends by cheque, you may wish to and state of affairs of the company and of the Group as consider having future dividends paid directly into your bank would be provided by the full annual report and accounts.
You will benefit from no postal delay, no risk of the If you require more detailed information, you may obtain, free cheque being lost and avoid the inconvenience of having to go of charge, a copy of the full annual report and accounts from to the bank or building society.
In addition, this will help the the companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services company to minimise costs in the future which will benefit all PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol shareholders.
You will be sent confirmation of the payment BS99 7NH.
Simply complete a mandate form available from the companys Registrars or the form may be downloaded Shareholders who receive only the summary financial from their website.
statement will continue to do so.
However, if you would like to receive the full annual report and accounts in future, PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS TO BANKS OUTSIDE THE please write to the companys Registrars.
UNITED KINGDOM BY TAPS Transcontinental Automated Payment Service TAPS is a facility ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING which is available for regular payments from the UK to certain The notice convening the companys annual general meeting countries overseas.
If you are a private shareholder with a at the Pilkington European Technical Centre, Hall Lane, Lathom, registered overseas address and your dividend is normally between Nr Ormskirk, Lancashire on Tuesday 20th July 2004 at 11.30 am, 5 and 5,000 you may be able to receive your dividends using is contained in a separate document issued to shareholders.
A dividend is automatically converted on the first working day after the dividend payment date to the relevant countrys Information on the results of voting at this annual general meeting domestic currency and can then be forwarded direct to your bank will be published on the companys website and will be available account in that country.
The cost of this service is currently 2.50 on request from the company secretary.
per payment which will be deducted from your dividend payment DIVIDEND prior to conversion.
If you would like to receive your dividend The directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended using this service please contact the companys Registrars for full 31st March 2004 of 3.25p per share, with scrip alternative, details.
The exchange rates will be published on the companys payable on 30th July 2004 to shareholders on the Register on website within five working days of the dividend payment date.
CONSOLIDATED TAX VOUCHERS Shareholders with an existing scrip dividend mandate will, subject In an effort to streamline processes and to assist shareholders with as hereinafter provided, automatically receive new shares in lieu record keeping, the company will in future issue Consolidated Tax of a cash dividend.
Scrip dividend mandates are available from the Vouchers for those shareholders who elect to have their dividends companys Registrars and on the companys website and should be paid direct to their bank or building society account.
This will completed and returned to them no later than 13th July 2004. avoid the necessity of issuing a tax voucher with each dividend Shareholders wishing to cancel an existing scrip mandate should payment.
Instead, one tax voucher will be issued each year at the also write to the Registrars before that date.
The offer of a scrip same time the interim dividend is paid, normally in December.
dividend is subject to the terms of the Pilkington plc Scrip This will contain the taxation details of all dividends for that Dividend Scheme.
particular financial year which will be of assistance to you if you are required to complete a tax return.
The scrip dividend share value will be calculated on the basis of the average of the middle market quotations of Pilkington shares If you have any queries regarding this arrangement please contact on the London Stock Exchange for the five dealing days the companys Registrars.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Announcement of results 26th May 2004 Shareholders now have the opportunity to access shareholder Ex-dividend date 9th June 2004 documents, such as Notice of Meetings, Forms of Proxy, Report Record date 11th June 2004 and Accounts and the Annual Review and Summary Financial Announcement of scrip dividend share value 16th June 2004 Statement, electronically via the Internet, rather than receiving Latest return date for scrip dividend mandates them by post.
If you choose this option, you will receive a or cancellation of existing mandates 13th July 2004 notification by e-mail each time the company publishes Annual general meeting 20th July 2004 shareholder documents on its website.
The e-mail will provide Dividend payment date and first date of information enabling you to access, read and download the dealing in scrip dividend shares 30th July 2004 documents at your leisure.
For the year ending 31st March 2005 Use of electronic communications enables shareholders to access Announcement of interim results 3rd November 2004 timely information and is also more environmentally responsible Interim dividend payment date by helping to reduce the expense of printing and posting the to be confirmed December 2004 documents mentioned above.
42 Pilkington plc annual review 2004 If you elect to receive shareholder documents in electronic form SHARE DEALING SERVICE you will be able to change your instruction or request a paper copy The companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, at any time.
To receive documents electronically, you will need to has in place a share dealing service for Pilkington shares.
For register online at www.
com register uk and then further information please telephone 0870 703 0084 or log on to select Pilkington plc.
Full details of how to register are provided www.
You will need your Shareholder Reference Number SHAREGIFT available when you first log in located on the enclosed Form of The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation Proxy, your share certificates or the tax voucher accompanying scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value your most recent dividend.
makes it uneconomical to sell them.
Details of the scheme are The use of electronic communications is entirely voluntary.
If you available from the company secretary or on the ShareGift internet wish to continue receiving communications from the company by site, www.
post in the traditional manner then you need take no action.
AMALGAMATING YOUR SHAREHOLDING ONLINE VOTING ON AGM RESOLUTIONS If you receive duplicate mailings, it may be because we have more You can vote online at www.
com voting uk from than one shareholding in your name.
To ensure that your shares are 9.00 am on 18th June 2004 until 11.30 am on 18th July 2004.
You registered correctly and amalgamated into one account, please will need your Shareholder Reference Number and unique PIN contact the Registrars on 0870 702 0000. number provided on your Form of Proxy for security verification.
REGISTER FOR E-MAIL ALERT SERVICE CREATE A PORTFOLIO WITH INVESTOR CENTRE If you wish to register for E-mail Alert Service go to Investor Centre is a free portfolio management system operated by www.
com and the companys Registrars, which will enable you to view details of Select Investor Relations, then E-mail Alert Service all your shareholdings that the Registrars administer.
You are able Enter your e-mail address to add other shareholdings to the portfolio.
The portfolio shows the Choose what you want to receive.
current market value of your shareholding prices are normally only 20 minutes delayed.
You can unsubscribe from this service at any time.
In addition, you can view price histories and trading graphs for all UNSOLICITED MAIL companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, and keep up to The law obliges the company to make its register of members date with market news.
Because of this, you may receive If you wish to use this service, register free with Investor Centre mail you have not asked for.
If you wish to limit the amount of at www.
com investorcentre uk by clicking personally addressed unsolicited mail you receive, please write for Register now.
You will need to have available your Shareholder information and an application form to the Mailing Preference Reference Number.
Please telephone 0870 873 5805 for Investor Service, Freepost 22, London W1E 4EZ or visit their website Centre enquiries.
Pilkington plc annual review 2004 43 Shareholder contacts Contact Address Telephone E-mail Facsimile Website REGISTRARS Computershare PO Box 82 Shareholder web.
Bridgwater Road 0870 702 0000 co. uk Bristol BS99 7NH Share dealing 0870 703 0084 Textphone 0870 702 0005 PILKINGTON plc David Roycroft Pilkington plc 01744 692837 david.
44 Pilkington plc annual review 2004  CorporateEdge.
