competitive levels, and annual performance-related payments are committee establishes the performance criteria and sets the assessed against the achievement of key financial targets.
The incentive plans are based based long-term incentives are used to align the interests of the wholly on challenging financial performance targets relating to senior executive group with those of shareholders.
This is achieved the annual budget which is approved by the board.
The plans for by linking executive awards to the creation of shareholder value, Stuart Chambers, Iain Lough and Andrew Robb were based on currently focusing on the growth in earnings per share and the Group profit and Group cash flow improvement.
The plan for Pat generation of free cash flow.
Zito was based on Group profit and cash flow improvement and also Automotive worldwide profit and cash flow improvement.
The remuneration policy also encourages personal investment in Performance against the targets set is reviewed by the committee at company shares and continued share ownership in line with the regular intervals during the year.
No bonus is paid to the executive companys shareholding targets for executive directors and senior directors if the agreed minimum targets are not met and bonus management, and participation in the long-term incentive plans payments to the executive directors are not pensionable.
Bonuses requires executives to invest part or all of their annual bonus.
were awarded on 25th May 2004 following sign off by the auditors.
This policy is expected to continue in future years.
For 2004, the bonus payable to executive directors amounts to The remuneration arrangements meet the provisions of the 656,275.
Stuart Chambers, Iain Lough and Andrew Robb earned Combined Code published in June 1998.
50 per cent of salary and Pat Zito earned 48.5 per cent of salary.
The main components of the executive directors remuneration Each of the current executive directors has agreed to invest all his This section summarises the main components of the bonus in the companys shares.
None of the current executive directors remuneration.
A detailed analysis of the remuneration for the year have taken a bonus in cash since their appointment to the board.
is shown in the section entitled Executive Directors Remuneration.
Long-term incentive plan The normal remuneration arrangements for executive directors The company has a long-term incentive plan that operates consist of salary, annual financial performance-related bonus, a internationally.
This is known as the Leadership Equity Award long-term incentive programme the Leadership Equity Award Plan LEAP, which was approved by the shareholders at the Plan and benefits which include company car, medical insurance annual general meeting in July 2000 and was introduced in 2001. and pension entitlement.
The executive directors are not eligible to The plan has been designed to provide geared levels of reward in participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan or the senior executives the form of company shares for the achievement of exceptional share option schemes whilst participating in the Leadership Equity company performance.
A significant proportion of the remuneration of the Executive directors and selected senior executives are invited by executive directors is linked to corporate and individual performance.
the committee to participate in LEAP.
Participants are invited to Salary invest all or a proportion of their annual after tax bonus in the The committee reviews the salary for each executive director in companys shares.
If the participants remain in employment and the April each year.
The policy is to broadly align salaries with market purchased shares are retained for three years, the company will medians.
However, account is taken of salary increases across the match their investment with additional shares.
The matching by the Group and salaries are set by reference to the companys company is made up of a core award and a performance award.
performance, the individuals performance including experience in The core award consists of shares to the value of one times the the role and external market information which is provided by the participants gross annual bonus deferred using the same share committees independent adviser.
This external information consists price that applied at the time of purchase.
The extent of the of data drawn from a sample of comparator companies chosen on performance award will depend upon the achievement of the basis of industrial sector, size including market capitalisation stretching performance targets for the Group over the three year and turnover, complexity and international dimension.
The committee is responsible for setting the performance comparator group is recommended by Deloitte & Touche LLP, the criteria and targets and takes independent advice in doing so.
Base salary is the only element committee considers earnings per share before exceptional items of the executive directors remuneration that is pensionable.
EPS to be one of the key fundamental financial measures on Annual performance-related bonus which the financial value of the company is assessed over the Each executive director participates in an annual performancemedium to long-term.
The use of aggregate EPS is considered a related incentive scheme.
The current years plan for the executive suitably challenging criterion in the current economic environment, directors, including the group chief executive, provided for a and is understood by all international participants.
The EPS is maximum bonus opportunity of 60 per cent of salary.
The calculated as fully diluted earnings per share adjusted for 2001 Plan 2002 Plan 2003 Plan Award level 2002 2004 2003 2005 2004 2006 Core and performance awards Core award 1.0 x gross bonus invested Performance awards Free cash aggregate over 3 years EPS EPS EPS 75% flow 25% Entry 24.9p 22.6p 21.2p 241 million 0.5 x gross bonus invested Maximum 29.7p 26.9p 27.1p 300 million 2.5 x gross bonus invested i Each plan is based on a three-year period.
ii The 2003 plan is split 75%:25% between aggregate EPS growth and free cash flow generation over three years.
iii EPS numbers were adjusted to comply with the adoption of FRS 19. iv EPS and free cash flow achievements above the maximum targets pay no more than the 2.5x gross bonus invested.
Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 9 Report on directors remuneration continued exceptional items and the committee believes that this method of the world, approximately 80 individuals, may invest part or all calculation provides an independent and verifiable measure of the of their annual after tax bonus in company shares.
In return, the companys performance.
A minimum level of EPS must be company grants the individuals a nil cost option to acquire the achieved for any performance award to vest.
The level of companys shares, the value of these shares being equivalent to performance awards made will depend on the extent of the 1.2 times the gross value of the individuals annual bonus achievement of the targets set whereby awards will vest between originally deferred.
The award is exercisable after three years entry level and maximum on a linear basis.
Should these provided the participants remain in employment and retain their demanding targets be met in full, the performance award will be purchased shares for a three year period.
In this way, the two and a half times the gross annual bonus deferred.
executives rewards are linked directly to shareholder value over the medium and long-term.
The performance targets for the LEAP performance awards issued in 2001 and 2002 are based on aggregate EPS over a three year period.
The plan is normally offered on an annual basis.
If the individual For the 2001 plan the performance awards will not vest because the disposes of the purchased shares before the end of the three year minimum aggregate EPS of 24.9p was not met.
Therefore participants period or if the individual chooses to leave the company, the award will not receive any performance awards under the plan.
Given the Groups strategy on the generation of free cash flow as Since the introduction of LEAP in 2001, the executive directors well as profit, the committee considered whether it was appropriate and those selected executives who are participants of LEAP are to include a cash component in the 2003 LEAP plan.
Having not entitled to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
However, consulted with Deloitte & Touche LLP the committee decided prior to this date the executive directors were entitled to participate that it was appropriate to include a specific cash measure within in the Deferred Bonus Plan and shares purchased by the executive this plan.
The committee considered the generation of actual directors for this plan are included in the list of directors free cash flow before any exceptional gains or losses to be a shareholdings on page 15.
In addition, nil cost option awards made suitable measurement in determining management effectiveness to the executive directors which relate to Deferred Bonus Plan awards in generating sustainable cash within the business.
This aligns prior to 2001 are shown in the Deferred Bonus Plan table on page with the stated policy of generating cash for the repayment of debt.
During 2004, Stuart Chambers, Iain Lough and Pat Zito As the Groups focus turns to investing for growth, the committee exercised options under this plan and these are detailed on page 13. will, at that time, examine the continued appropriateness of the Share option schemes perfomance elements under this plan.
However the committee felt The Group operates executive share option schemes for senior that aggregate EPS should remain the key measure of management executives in the UK and overseas.
effectiveness and therefore approved the 2003 plan on the basis of 75 per cent aggregate EPS and 25 per cent free cash flow.
The Since the introduction of LEAP in 2001 the executive directors and performance targets are set out in the table on page 9. senior executives who participate in LEAP have not been entitled to participate in the senior executives share option schemes.
In determining the EPS target for the 2003 plan 2004-2006, the actual 2003 EPS is used as a base and ten per cent compound The senior executives share option schemes provide a potential growth is used to determine the minimum target and 24 per cent reward in shares for improvement in company performance used to fix the maximum target.
The committee believes that these reflected in the share price.
Invitations to participate are made targets are a reflection of the current economic conditions and each year to selected senior executives worldwide.
The option represent stretching challenges for the management of the business.
entitles the executive to buy company shares at a fixed exercise The EPS numbers were adjusted to comply with the adoption of price.
The ability to exercise this option is dependent upon the FRS 19.
The committee considered the objective of cash generation achievement of predetermined performance targets based on to be the achievement of free cash on a consistent basis and growth in earnings per share over changes in the retail price index believes this to be critical to the delivery of shareholder value in RPI.
The current target set by the committee is RPI plus three per the long-term.
Providing the earnings per share targets are met for the prescribed three year performance period, the share options The participants in this plan are not eligible to participate in the will become exercisable after three years and up to ten years from Deferred Bonus Plan or the senior executives share option the date of grant.
For options granted before June 2003, should the schemes.
Core awards vest after three years.
Performance awards performance targets not be met after three years the committee has only vest after the committee has reviewed and confirmed that the discretion to allow retesting from a fixed base over four years performance against the conditions set has been met.
After five years, if the performance target has The company also operated a long-term incentive plan in the North not been met, the options lapse.
For options granted in or after American business, The Pilkington North America Long-Term June 2003, the committee has decided that the performance targets Incentive Plan, during the period from October 1999 to September will not be subject to retesting and accordingly, if the performance 2002.
The remaining shares awarded under this plan vested in targets are not satisfied after three years, the options will lapse.
November 2003 and this plan is now closed.
None of the current Options are only exercisable after the committee has reviewed and executive directors have ever participated in this plan.
confirmed that performance against the conditions set has been met.
The Deferred Bonus Plan Prior to the introduction of LEAP in 2001, the executive directors The Deferred Bonus Plan is a scheme designed to encourage senior were entitled to share options, and such options granted to them executives to invest in the company by purchasing and retaining prior to this date are detailed on page 14.
Other than those already company shares and in doing so aligning themselves with the mentioned under the Deferred Bonus Plan, none of the executive interests of shareholders.
Executives in the most senior roles across directors exercised options during the year to 31st March 2004.
10 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004
