Independent auditors report to the members of Pilkington plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance Group profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the Group cash with the seven provisions of the Combined Code issued in flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, June 1998 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the the accounting policies and the related notes.
We have also Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal the Companies Act 1985 contained in the report on directors control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the remuneration the audited information.
effectiveness of the companys or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards the financial statements in accordance with applicable United issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the statement examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts of directors responsibilities.
The directors are also responsible for and disclosures in the financial statements and the audited preparing the directors remuneration report.
information of the report on directors remuneration.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the made by the directors in the preparation of the financial audited information of the report on directors remuneration in statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing adequately disclosed.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for information and explanations which we considered necessary no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person assurance that the financial statements and the audited information to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, of the report on directors remuneration are free from material save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the audited information of the report on directors remuneration OPINION have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies In our opinion: Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not affairs of the company and the Group at 31st March 2004 and of received all the information and explanations we require for our the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors the financial statements have been properly prepared in remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the Directors Report those parts of the report on directors remuneration required by and Accounts and the Annual Review and consider the implications Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the report on directors remuneration, the chairmans statement, the chief executives review, the review of operations, the corporate  LLP social responsibility report, the finance directors review, the report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors of the Nomination Committee, the report of the Audit Committee London and the corporate governance statement.
We review whether the 26th May 2004 18 Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004
