Accounting policies BASIS OF ACCOUNTING Goodwill carried in the balance sheet is amortised, on a straight The Groups financial statements are prepared under the historical line basis, over periods not exceeding 20 years, such periods being cost convention in accordance with applicable United Kingdom chosen to reflect the expected useful economic lives.
are the periods over which the directors estimate that the values of the underlying businesses acquired are expected to match the value A summary of the principal Group accounting policies, which have of the underlying assets.
been consistently applied, is set out below.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES GROUP CONSOLIDATION Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, including The Groups financial statements consolidate the results and those of subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates, are financial position of Pilkington plc, the parent company, and all its translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results and subsidiary undertakings, made up to 31st March in each year.
cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and Where appropriate, the financial statements of overseas subsidiary associates are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates undertakings are adjusted to conform with the Groups accounting ruling during the financial year.
Unrealised profits on intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Where the Groups operations are conducted in countries where there is hyperinflation, the results and balance sheets are adjusted Where subsidiary undertakings are acquired or disposed of during in accordance with the indexation rules set out in UITF 9. the year, the Groups profit and loss account reflects their results from the date that control passes to the Group on an acquisition Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets and to the date that the undertaking ceases to be a subsidiary either of overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates on disposal or through the loss of control exercised over the and on the translation of foreign currency borrowings used to undertaking.
hedge investments in overseas subsidiaries are taken to reserves.
Other transactional exchange differences are taken to the profit and JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES loss account.
The Group treats investments in undertakings which are jointly controlled as joint ventures.
Investments in undertakings where the Where a subsidiary undertaking borrows in a currency other than Group has a participating interest, where the investment is held for its own reporting currency, any exchange gains or losses arising on the long-term and where the Group exercises significant influence, translation into sterling are included in the profit and loss account are treated as associates.
and are disclosed within net interest payable and similar charges.
The Groups share of turnover and the component elements of the TURNOVER profit and loss account are disclosed separately for both joint Group turnover is based on the invoiced value of all goods ventures and associates in the Groups profit and loss account.
delivered and services provided prior to the year end, excluding VAT and other sales based taxes and net of trade discounts.
Joint ventures are included using the gross equity method under Turnover also includes the proportion of the sales value of longwhich the share of gross assets and liabilities is disclosed on the term contracts principally the construction of float lines for glass balance sheet.
Associates are included using the equity method manufacture based on their state of completion.
Group turnover under which the share of net assets is shown.
includes sales by Group undertakings to joint ventures and Joint ventures and associates are accounted for on the basis of associates, but excludes sales by joint ventures and associates.
audited accounts, or where these are not available, on the basis DEFERRED INCOME of unaudited management accounts prepared up to the Groups Regional development grants, other investment grants and other accounting date.
Where it is not practicable to obtain such types of deferred income are taken to deferred income and are accounts, audited accounts or unaudited management accounts released to the profit and loss account in appropriate instalments prepared to an accounting date not more than three months prior relating to the type and nature of expenditure they are intended to the Groups accounting date are used.
Where appropriate, the to fund.
financial statements of overseas joint ventures and associates are adjusted to conform with the Groups accounting policies.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Expenditure on pure or applied research and development, using GOODWILL existing know-how to produce new or substantially improved Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of consideration products or to install new processes prior to the commencement paid to acquire a subsidiary undertaking, joint venture or associate of commercial production or to improve substantially those over the Groups share of the fair value of its separable net assets products or processes already in commercial production, is at acquisition.
Negative goodwill represents the excess of the written off to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Groups share of the separable net assets at acquisition over the fair value of consideration paid to acquire a subsidiary undertaking, Expenditure on research laboratories, equipment and plant joint venture or associate.
Prior to 1st April 1995, all goodwill is capitalised as tangible fixed assets and written off over its arising on acquisitions was written off to reserves.
Where an acquired undertaking is subsequently sold and where RETIREMENT BENEFITS goodwill has been previously written off to reserves and can be The pension cost relating to defined contribution schemes identified, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated after operating in the UK and overseas is the amount of the contribution including goodwill in the profit and loss account for the year.
payable in the respective financial year.
Pilkington plc Directors report and accounts 2004 19
