Communication with Stakeholders to biannual review by the Committee and the lead audit partner is The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with rotated at least every five years.
The Committee also maintains a formal its stakeholders.
policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor, which is reviewed each year.
This policy prohibits the provision of certain services There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders as well and requires that others are subject to prior approval by the Committee as general presentations after the interim and preliminary results.
This policy allows specific tax compliance services 1999, the Company introduced quarterly financial reporting in order to within defined monetary limits to be pre-approved by the Committee at improve the level of information available to all shareholders.
All the beginning of the year.
All other permitted non-audit services are Company announcements are published on the Companys web site, considered on a case by case basis.
At each of its meetings, the Committee is provided with information on The Board regards the discussion of the Companys strategy as primarily all non-audit services provided by the auditor and the estimated cost of part of the role of the Chief Executive and this forms part of his regular such services.
The Committee monitors such costs, in the context of the meetings with institutional shareholders.
Feedback from these meetings audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the value of non-audit is provided to the Board, both by the Group Director, Communications services does not increase to a level where it has the potential to affect and by the Companys financial public relations advisers.
The Board also the auditors objectivity and independence.
regularly receives copies of analysts reports on the Company.
The Committee also receives an annual confirmation of independence The Chairman is available to shareholders at any time to discuss strategy from the auditor.
While other Non-Executive Directors do not ordinarily attend meetings with major shareholders, they would do so if Throughout the year, the Group has been in full compliance with the this was requested by shareholders.
applicable provisions on internal control contained in the Combined Code issued in June 1998.
All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which the Group Chief Executive The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal makes a business presentation summarising the progress of the controls and risk management.
The Audit Committee reviews and Group during the year.
All Directors are available to take questions at monitors the systems effectiveness on behalf of the Board at least the meeting.
annually, while responsibility for the system rests with the Executive Directors.
The system includes an ongoing process for identifying, As discussed in the Directors Report, employee communication is evaluating and managing significant business risks.
However, any system given high priority.
This has included the establishment of a European can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting Works Council.
Going Concern The Company is subject to the requirements of the US Sarbanes-Oxley After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Act 2002 as they apply to foreign private issuers.
This legislation the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in requires, amongst other things, annual certifications to be included operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they within, or attached to, the Companys annual report on Form 20-F, which continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
is filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
As part of the process for ensuring that such certifications can be made, an executive Audit and Internal Control management committee, the Disclosure and Risk Committee, has been The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under review the formed.
The Disclosure and Risk Committee has subsumed within its Groups financial and other systems and controls and its financial terms of reference the functions previously carried out by the Risk reporting procedures.
In fulfilling this role, the Committee receives and Committee, as well as taking responsibility for reviewing disclosures reviews work carried out by the internal and external auditors and their made by the Company to regulators and the investment community.
The Companys internal audit department works to an annual part of this expanded role, the Disclosure and Risk Committee monitors programme developed in consultation with the Committee, as well as and reviews disclosure and risk management processes and reports to covering specific matters arising during the year.
The Audit Committee considers these reports, alongside other reports from the internal audit department and the The Audit Committees terms of reference have recently been updated external auditors, to arrive at a balanced assessment of control to reflect the requirements of the New Code and many of the effectiveness across the Group.
recommendations contained in the Smith Report published in January 2003.
In addition, and following a recommendation from the Smith The Audit Committee reports on its assessment to the Board, so that Report, the Committee has also adopted and implemented a the Board can reach its own informed view on control effectiveness.
group-wide policy restricting the appointment of former employees of the external auditor.
The statement of the Directors responsibility in relation to the accounts appears on page 69.
The Committee keeps the scope and cost effectiveness of both the internal and external audit functions under review.
This now includes an annual review of the effectiveness of the external auditor, including its quality control procedures.
The independence and objectivity of the external auditor is also considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year to 1st February 2004 and information on the nature of the non-audit fees incurred appear in note 5 to the Financial Statements.
The non-audit fees were paid in respect of assurance work including taxation and are considered by the Committee not to affect the independence or objectivity of the auditors.
The external auditors appointment is subject CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PREMIER FARNELL PLC 41 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
