NOTE 31 CONTINUED The differing treatment of goodwill under US GAAP may also give rise to a different profit or loss being recorded in the income statement on the subsequent disposal of a business.
Deferred Taxation Under FRS19, Deferred Tax, accounting for deferred tax under UK GAAP is now largely consistent with US GAAP.
The principal difference recognised in the reconciliation below relates to deferred tax liabilities provided against intangible assets recorded under US GAAP on acquisition which have been written off against retained earnings under UK GAAP and for which no deferred tax liability is therefore recorded.
Hedging of the Groups US Dollar Investments UK Group companies hold borrowings and forward contracts denominated in US dollars that provide a hedge against the Groups US dollar investments.
Under UK GAAP, exchange gains or losses on these US dollar liabilities are taken to reserves and reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses: whereas, under US GAAP FAS 133, such exchange gains and losses are recorded in the profit and loss account.
Pension Costs The key differences between UK GAAP SSAP24 and US GAAP in relation to defined benefit pension plans are: Under UK GAAP plan assets are valued using a discounted income valuation.
US GAAP requires plan assets to be measured at market-related value.
Under UK GAAP the effect of variations in cost can be accumulated at successive valuations and amortised on an aggregate basis.
Under US GAAP the amortisation of the transitional asset and the costs of past service benefit improvements are separately tracked, with aggregated gains and losses amortised only if outside a 10% corridor.
Under US GAAP, an additional liability is required to be recorded when the accumulated benefit obligation exceeds the fair value of the plan assets.
An intangible asset is recognised when the additional liability is recorded and is adjusted as the additional liability changes.
However, the recorded intangible asset is limited to the amount of unrecognised prior service cost including any unrecognised net obligation from transition : any excess of the additional liability over this amount is recorded within the statement of other comprehensive income.
At 1st February 2004, the cumulative amount of additional liability, recorded within the statement of other comprehensive income, as there was no unrecognised prior service cost was 12.9 million.
Stock Based Compensation Under UK GAAP, a compensation cost must be calculated in respect of share options and long term incentive plans based on the difference between the share price at the date of the grant and the option award price and is recognised over the vesting period: whereas, under US GAAP, the compensation cost is based on the fair value of the option award at the date of grant and is also recognised over the vesting period.
Under UK GAAP, own shares are carried on the balance sheet and classified as a fixed asset: whereas, under US GAAP, own shares are offset against shareholders funds.
Under UK GAAP, a provision is made for the cost of acquiring further shares on the market where there is an obligation under a long term incentive plan: whereas, under US GAAP, no such provision is recognised.
Revenue Recognition Under UK GAAP, revenue is recognised when a seller has performed under the contractual terms of an arrangement.
In this context, performance occurs when all contractual obligations to a customer have been fulfilled through the supply of goods or services.
Consequently, under UK GAAP, revenue is recognised at the point of shipment when the contractual terms of the arrangement have been satisfied.
Under US GAAP, Staff Accounting Bulletin No.
104 SAB 104 requires that revenue is not recognised until physical delivery to the customer.
This is because it is Newark InOnes general practice to provide the customer with replacement products at no cost in the event of delivery failure, notwithstanding that Newark InOnes standard terms of trade state that title passes and risk of loss or damage transfers to the customer at the point of shipment.
Capitalisation of Interest Under UK GAAP, the Group does not capitalise interest: whereas, under US GAAP, the estimated amount of interest incurred on capital projects which are prepared for use over time is included in fixed assets and depreciated over the lives of the related assets.
Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares and Preference Dividends Under UK GAAP, cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares are included as shareholders funds: whereas, under US GAAP, cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares do not form part of shareholders funds when the terms of redemption of such shares are outside the control of the Company: the dividend thereon is recorded as a charge against net income.
Under UK GAAP, the special conversion right, which enabled preference shareholders to convert their preference shares into ordinary shares at an enhanced rate of conversion, does not affect the income statement or shareholders funds, with the difference in the nominal value between the preference shares converted and ordinary shares issued being credited to the share premium account.
Under US GAAP, FAS84, Induced Conversions of Convertible Debt, requires an expense to be recorded against net income, measured as being the difference between the fair value of ordinary shares issued pursuant to the special conversion right and the fair value of ordinary shares issued pursuant to the original conversion terms.
66 PREMIER FARNELL PLC NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED
