CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance The Audit, Remuneration and Organisation and Management throughout the Group.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Development Committees have, respectively, five, three and two shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the scheduled meetings each year, although additional meetings are held principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance where required.
The Nominations Committee meets as required.
are applied by the Company.
The Combined Code has been revised During the year, all Directors attended the five Board meetings that were following the Higgs review and the new version was published in July 2003 the New Code.
The New Code applies for reporting years held.
All of the members of the respective committees attended the five Audit Committee and four Remuneration Committee meetings that were beginning on or after 1st November 2003 and therefore the year under review remains subject to the Code issued in June 1998.
The Board held, except for one meeting of the Audit Committee that Mr Nolan was unable to attend.
has, however, taken account of the additional requirements of the New Code and implemented as many of these as practicable.
Complete copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Organisation and Management Development The Board confirms that the Company complies with all of the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued in June 1998.
Committees are available on the Companys web site at www.
The membership of the Committees appears Directors on page 27.
The Board consists of a Non-Executive Chairman, five Non-Executive There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent, and three Executive Directors.
In accordance with the New Code, the professional advice at the Companys expense if necessary in the performance of their duties.
This is in addition to the access which every Board has ceased to regard the Chairman as independent and, as a consequence, he has ceased to be a member of the Audit and Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
Sir Robert Horton is the Companys senior independent Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman.
The Board has adopted a number of corporate governance policies, In reaching its conclusions on independence, and as suggested by the including a Group Code of Ethics covering issues such as conflicts of interest, fraud, whistleblowing and share dealing.
A copy of the Code is New Code, the Board considered that Sir Malcolm Bates and Mr Roques are both also non-executive directors of HHG plc and that also available on the Companys web site.
Mr Lester and Mr Nolan have family members who are employed by To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors to firms among those which provide legal advice to the Company.
The discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all Board considered Mr Roques background and experience and relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a determined that his holding of a cross, non-executive directorship with comprehensive set of papers, including regular business progress Sir Malcolm Bates would not affect his independence.
In the cases of reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
In Mr Lester and Mr Nolan, the Board considered the fact that they do addition, individual Directors meet with senior management and are not determine which legal advisers are appointed by the Company and encouraged to make periodic site visits, including overseas where that their family members are not directly involved in providing advice to appropriate.
Senior managers are regularly invited to Board meetings the Company, in reaching its conclusion that their independence is and make business presentations.
Potential appointments of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors Biographies of the Board members appear on page 27.
These indicate to the Board are considered by the Nominations Committee.
The the high level and broad range of experience that they possess.
Nominations Committee consults with Executive Directors when Appropriate training for new and existing Directors is kept under review considering appointments and a range of candidates is considered and provided where necessary.
before any appointment is made.
The Remuneration Committee will consider any remuneration package before it is offered to a potential The appointment letters for Non-Executive Directors have been updated since the end of the year to take account of the requirements of the appointee.
The only appointment made to the Board during the year was that of Mr Bain.
This was an internal promotion, following Mr Bains New Code and now include the time commitment expected of, and confirmation from Non-Executive Directors that they have sufficient time appointment as Group Chief Operating Officer in July 2002. available to meet this commitment.
Non-Executive Directors are required A formal induction process for new Directors has recently been to inform the Board of any changes to their other appointments.
approved by the Board and this will be implemented for future appointments.
In addition, proposals for performance evaluation of the The Board The role of the Board is to maximise the long-term performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors are being considered with a view to implementation during the year ending January 2005.
Group through the development of a strategy designed to create shareholder value.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis Any Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions and exercises control over the performance of each operating company of the Companys articles of association, to retire and seek election by within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets and monitoring shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The articles also performance against those targets.
require that every Director must retire and seek re-election at least every The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and three years.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of the Companys executive management of the Groups business while the Chairman, remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration Report appearing who has no executive management responsibilities, runs the Board.
The Board has five scheduled meetings each year and others as Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or voting at full required.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for Board meetings on Remuneration Committee recommendations where decision, including major capital expenditure, significant investments or the recommendations have a direct bearing on his own remuneration disposals and treasury policy.
In certain areas, specific responsibility is package.
The details of each Executive Directors individual package are delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
fixed by the Remuneration Committee in line with the policy adopted by the full Board.
40 PREMIER FARNELL PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
