77 Premier Foods plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the first Annual General Meeting Resolution 13 of Premier Foods plc the Company will be held on That the Company be and is hereby authorised: Thursday 26 May 2005 at 2.00 pm at Haberdashers Hall, a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations not 18 West Smitheld, London EC1A 9HQ to consider the exceeding 25,000 in total: and following resolutions: b to incur EU Political Expenditure not exceeding 25,000 Ordinary resolutions in total: Resolution 1 during the period ending at the conclusion of the Annual That the reports of the directors and auditors and the General Meeting of the Company in 2006.
For the purposes audited accounts of the Company for the year ended of this resolution, Donations, EU Political Organisations 31 December 2004 be received.
and EU Political Expenditure have the meanings set out Resolution 2 in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985.
That the final dividend of 9p per ordinary share in the Resolution 14 Company recommended by the directors be declared.
That Premier Ambient Products UK Limited, being a Resolution 3 wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, be and is That the directors remuneration report for the year ended hereby authorised: 31 December 2004 be approved.
a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations Resolution 4 not exceeding 25,000 in total: and That Robert Schoeld be re-elected as a director.
b to incur EU Political Expenditure not exceeding Resolution 5 25,000 in total: That Paul Thomas be re-elected as a director.
during the period ending at the conclusion of the Annual Resolution 6 General Meeting of the Company in 2006.
For the purposes That David Kappler be re-elected as a director.
of this resolution, Donations, EU Political Organisations and EU Political Expenditure have the meanings set out Resolution 7 in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985.
That David Felwick CBE be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 15 Resolution 8 That HL Foods Limited, being a wholly-owned subsidiary That Sharon Hintze be re-elected as a director.
of the Company, be and is hereby authorised: Resolution 9 a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations That Ian McHoul be re-elected as a director.
not exceeding 25,000 in total: and Resolution 10 b to incur EU Political Expenditure not exceeding That Ian Ramsay be re-elected as a director.
25,000 in total: Resolution 11 during the period ending at the conclusion of the Annual That  LLP be reappointed auditors General Meeting of the Company in 2006.
For the purposes of the Company to hold ofce until the conclusion of the of this resolution, Donations, EU Political Organisations next general meeting at which accounts are laid before and EU Political Expenditure have the meanings set out the Company and that their remuneration be xed by in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985. the directors.
Resolution 16 Resolution 12 That Chivers Hartley Limited, being a wholly-owned That the amendments to the rules of the Premier Foods plc subsidiary of the Company, be and is hereby authorised: Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP which are marked on the copy of the rules of the LTIP produced to the a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for not exceeding 25,000 in total: and the purposes of identication and which are summarised b to incur EU Political Expenditure not exceeding in the notes to the notice of this meeting be and are 25,000 in total: hereby authorised and that the directors be and are hereby authorised to do all such acts and things as may during the period ending at the conclusion of the Annual be necessary to carry the same into effect.
General Meeting of the Company in 2006.
For the purposes of this resolution, Donations, EU Political Organisations and EU Political Expenditure have the meanings set out in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985.
78 Premier Foods plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolution 17 b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph That MBM Produce Limited, being a wholly-owned a above of equity securities up to an aggregate subsidiary of the Company, be and is hereby authorised: nominal value of 122,444 a to make Donations to EU Political Organisations and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual not exceeding 25,000 in total: and General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
The Company may before such expiry b to incur EU Political Expenditure not exceeding make an offer or agreement which would or might require 25,000 in total: equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the during the period ending at the conclusion of the Annual directors may allot equity securities under such an offer General Meeting of the Company in 2006.
For the purposes or agreement as if the power had not expired.
of this resolution, Donations, EU Political Organisations Resolution 20 and EU Political Expenditure have the meanings set out That the Company be generally and unconditionally in section 347A of the Companies Act 1985. authorised to make market purchases within the meaning Resolution 18 of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of not more That the directors be generally and unconditionally than 24,488,867 ordinary shares of 1p each in its share authorised under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 capital at a price per share of not less than 1p per share to allot relevant securities as dened in that Act up to an and not more than 5% above the average of the middle aggregate nominal value of 816,295.
This authority will market price for an ordinary share taken from the London expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
immediately preceding the day on which such shares are However, before this authority expires, the Company contracted to be purchased in each case exclusive of may make an offer or agreement which would or might any expenses.
This authority will expire at the conclusion require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and the directors may allot relevant securities under such or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
an offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
However, before this authority expires, the Company may agree to purchase ordinary shares where the purchase Special resolutions will or may be completed, either fully or partly, after the Resolution 19 authority expires and the Company may purchase such That, provided that resolution 18 in the notice of this ordinary shares as if the authority had not expired.
meeting has been passed, the directors be empowered By Order of the Board under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities as dened in that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by that resolution as if Section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this authority shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a Paul Thomas rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer Company Secretary in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity Premier Foods plc Premier House securities respectively attributable to the interests of Centrium Business Park all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly Grifths Way as may be to the respective number of ordinary shares St Albans Hertfordshire AL1 2RE held or deemed to be held by them, subject to such 17 April 2005 exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and 79 Premier Foods plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Recommendation It is proposed that a number of amendments be made to the LTIP to bring it into line with best practice.
The proposed amendments Your directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be which require shareholder approval are summarised below: proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour 1.
There is currently no limit on individual awards in the LTIP rules.
They will be doing so in respect of their own beneficial To comply with best practice, an individual limit will now be shareholdings.
added to the effect that the value of shares subject to awards given to a participant in any financial year under the LTIP will Explanation of resolutions not normally exceed 100% of salary.
However, in exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may award shares Resolution 1: To receive the report and accounts with a value of up to 200% of salary.
The directors are required to present to the meeting the directors and auditors reports and the accounts for the year 2.
The cessation of employment provisions will be amended to ended 31 December 2004. reect best practice as follows: Resolution 2: To declare a dividend i Good leavers The proposed 2004 final dividend of 9p per share will be paid on If a participant ceases to be employed by the Company by 31 May 2005 to shareholders who are on the register on 6 May reason of death, injury, disability, retirement at his contractual 2005.
The final dividend will be paid in cash to all shareholders.
retirement age or at an earlier age with the agreement of his employing company, redundancy or because the business Resolution 3: To approve the directors remuneration report or company for which he works is sold out of the Group The Board is required to present the directors remuneration report during the performance measurement period, the number to shareholders for approval at the meeting.
The remuneration of shares subject to his award that may be transferred to report is set out on pages 23 to 31.
The Board considers that him or, in the event of his death, his personal representatives appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping shall be determined by the Remuneration Committee which to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
The vote will have may take into account the period of time that has elapsed advisory status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall since the award was granted and the extent to which the remuneration packages and is not specic to individual levels performance targets had been met at the time of cessation of remuneration.
Resolutions 4 to 10: To re-elect Robert Schoeld, Paul Thomas, ii Other leavers David Kappler, David Felwick CBE, Sharon Hintze, Ian McHoul If a participant ceases employment other than by reason and Ian Ramsay of death or for one of the good leaver reasons mentioned Article 115 of the Companys Articles of Association allows the above during the performance measurement period, any Board to appoint a person to the Board during the year, subject awards he holds will lapse unless the Remuneration to them being re-elected at the subsequent Annual General Committee determine otherwise.
The above named directors accordingly offer themselves for re-election.
Lyndon Lea and George Sewell are shown in the Resolution 13 to 17: Political donations report and accounts, which were nalised on 18 March 2005, as The Companies Act 1985 requires companies to obtain directors of the Company.
They have subsequently notied their shareholder authority before they can make donations to intention to resign as directors from the conclusion of this Annual EU political organisations which includes UK political parties.
General Meeting and are therefore not proposed for re-election.
The denition of political donations used in the Act is very broad and, as a result, it may have the effect of covering a number of Directors biographical details are shown on page 14. normal business activities that would not be thought to be political Resolution 11: Reappointment and remuneration of auditors donations in the usual sense.
Such activities are not designed This resolution proposes the reappointment of to support any political party nor to inuence public support for  LLP as auditors, and permits a particular party.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently the directors to x their remuneration.
contravening the Act, the directors consider that it would be prudent to follow the procedures specified in the Act to obtain Resolution 12: The Premier Foods plc shareholder approval for the Company and its wholly-owned Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP subsidiaries Premier Ambient Products UK Limited, HL Foods The LTIP was adopted prior to and conditional upon Admission.
Limited, Chivers Hartley Limited and MBM Produce Limited each The intention is for the first awards to be made under the LTIP to make donations to EU political organisations of up to 125,000 shortly after the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
in total and to incur EU political expenditure of up to 125,000 in Participants in the LTIP are given an award at the outset, over a total.
The Companys policy remains that it does not, directly or specified number of shares.
The vesting of the award is subject through any subsidiary, make what are commonly regarded as to the satisfaction of a performance target.
At the end of the donations to any political party and the authority being requested performance measurement period, award holders are granted from shareholders is not designed to change this policy.
The number of shares in respect of which the option is granted is determined by reference to the extent to which the performance conditions attaching to the original award have been met.
80 Premier Foods plc Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 18 and 19: Authority to allot shares Please bring with you the accompanying Admission Card.
It will and disapplication of pre-emption rights facilitate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will speed your Under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, the directors cannot admission.
Please keep it until the end of the meeting.
The meeting generally allot shares in the Company unless they are authorised will commence at 2 pm and light refreshments will be available from to do so by the Company in general meeting.
Resolution 18 will 1.30 pm and also after the conclusion of the meeting.
authorise the directors to allot new shares up to a nominal value Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General Meeting, of 816,295, representing one-third of the issued share capital of you are requested to complete the enclosed Form of Proxy and the Company as at the date of this notice.
The authority will expire return it to the Companys registrars at the following address: at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, Response Licence No.
SEA 10855, Lloyds TSB Registrars, 15 months from the date of passing of this resolution.
The directors The Causeway, Worthing BN99 6ZX as soon as possible and have no present intention of issuing shares, except as needed to in any event so as to be received no later than 48 hours before satisfy the exercise of options under the Companys employee the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting.
and submission of a Form of Proxy will not prevent you from If shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 89 of the Companies attending and voting in person if you so wish.
Act 1985 requires those shares to be offered first to existing You may also nd it helpful to bring your Annual Report with you shareholders in proportion to the number of shares held by them.
so that you can refer to it at the meeting.
This right of shareholders is commonly known as a pre-emption right.
The directors believe that in certain circumstances it will be If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may appoint in the interests of the Company for shares to be allotted for cash either the Chairman of the meeting or one or more persons of otherwise than in accordance with shareholders pre-emption rights.
your choice to act on your behalf and to vote in the event of a Under resolution 19, the directors will remain subject to constraints poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
You are advised to use on the issue of shares for cash.
Unless they comply with the the enclosed Form of Proxy to appoint a proxy.
pre-emption procedure under Section 89 of the Companies Act, A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and vote they will be able to issue such shares for cash only: on behalf of the shareholder who appointed him or her.
in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other At the meeting, the proxy can act for the member he or she pre-emptive offer, or: represents.
This includes the right to join in or demand a poll.
up to 122,444, representing approximately 5% of the nominal The proxy is also valid for any adjournment of the meeting.
value of the Companys issued share capital as at 17 April 2005.
Please mark the appropriate box alongside each resolution on the Resolution 20: To authorise the Company to purchase Form of Proxy to indicate whether you wish your votes to be cast its own shares for, or against, or whether you wish to withhold your vote from, This resolution is intended to give the directors the authority to that resolution.
Unless you give specic instructions on how to vote make market purchases of up to 24,488,867 shares representing on a particular resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her approximately 10% of the issued share capital at the date of discretion, either to vote for or against that resolution or to this notice.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the withhold from voting.
2006 Annual General Meeting, although the directors intend to Before posting the form to the registrar, please check that you have seek renewal of the authority at each Annual General Meeting.
In the case of joint holders, any of you may sign it.
The Board has no immediate intention of exercising this authority.
Moreover purchases will only be made if they would be in the Forms of Proxy must be received in the ofces of the Companys best interests of shareholders generally.
As at the date of this registrars no later than 2 pm on 24 May 2005.
Any Form of Proxy notice there were options outstanding over 5,594,858 shares received after this time will be void.
in the Company, representing 2.28% of the issued share capital The register of directors interests, copies of their service contracts at that date.
If the authority proposed to be given by this resolution or letters of appointment and the rules of the Premier Foods plc were used in full, these would represent 2.54% of the resulting long term incentive plan the LTIP, incorporating the proposed issued share capital.
There are no warrants outstanding.
amendments will be available for inspection at the registered Attendance and voting ofce of the Company during usual business hours between the date of this notice and the Annual General Meeting and at the Only those shareholders who are registered on the Companys venue of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the share register at 6.00 pm on 24 May 2005 shall be entitled to commencement of the meeting and until its conclusion.
The rules attend the Annual General Meeting and to vote in respect of the of the LTIP incorporating the proposed amendments will also be number of shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes available for inspection at the ofces of Deloitte & Touche LLP, 180 to entries on the share register after 6.00 pm on 24 May 2005 shall Strand, London WC2R 1BL during usual business hours between be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or the date of this notice and the Annual General Meeting.
Contents: Highlights: ifc Highlights for 2004 01 Introduction 02 Chairmans statement 8.8% 03 Chief Executives review turnover 10 Financial review 14 Board of Directors 15 Senior Management 16 Directors report 23 Directors remuneration report 27.
4 % 32 Corporate social responsibility operating profit before 34 Independent auditors report 36 Consolidated profit and loss account exceptional items 37 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses Consolidated reconciliation of movements in shareholders deficit 9.1% 38 Balance sheets operating profit after operating 39 Consolidated cash flow statement 40 Notes to the consolidated financial statements exceptional items 75 Four year financial summary unaudited 76 Corporate information 77 Notice of Annual General Meeting p 9 dividend per share continuing operations Designed produced by Radley Yeldar London Premier Foods plc Annual Report 2004 Premier Foods plc Premier House Griffiths Way St Albans AL1 2RE T 01727 815850 F 01727 815982 Premier Foods plc Annual Report 2004 Every year, over 95% of all UK households purchase at least one of our brands.
The popularity of our range means that we have an annual Group turnover of over 800m.
