Accounting policies Accounting convention Fixed assets The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention a Capitalisation of oil and gas expenditure The group follows and in accordance with the Oil Industry Accounting Committee the full cost method of accounting.
All expenditure relating to the Statement of Recommended Practice Accounting for Oil and acquisition, exploration, appraisal and development of oil and gas Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning interests are capitalised in one of the five cost pools, detailed below: Activities and applicable accounting standards.
North West Europe: This pool contains groups assets in the During the year, the group adopted the US dollar as its reporting UK and any new production assets in the North Sea.
currency going forward, with the accounts for the year ending 31 December 2004 being the first to be reported in US dollars.
Far East: All investments in and around Far East Asia including The majority of Premiers revenue and expenditure is transacted Indonesia and the Philippines.
in US dollars, by adopting the US dollar for reporting purposes, the Board believes that the accounts will give a clearer picture of West Africa: Exploration and production on and offshore Western performance of the companys business, minimising the impact of Africa including groups acquisition of Mauritanian fields and the US dollar exchange rate fluctuations.
The comparative numbers, exploration rights in Gabon and Guinea Bissau.
relating to the corresponding period in 2003, provided in the text below, originally reported in sterling, have been translated at the South Asia: Exploration interests in Pakistan excluding PKP joint rates prevailing during the period.
The rates are US$1.63 for profit venture, India and any other South Asian country in the future.
and loss items and US$1.79 for balance sheet items.
Other: For new development areas.
Consolidation The group accounts consolidate the accounts of Premier Oil plc Proceeds on disposal of an interest are credited to the relevant the company and all its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to cost pool.
No profit and loss account is presented for the company as provided by Section 230 of the Companies Intangible fixed assets consisting of expenditure on significant Act 1985.
Entities in which the group holds an interest on a longnew exploration areas and licences are excluded from the term basis and are jointly controlled by the group and one or capitalised tangible cost pools pending determination of more other venturers under a contractual arrangement are treated commercial reserves.
Capitalised exploration expenditure is as joint ventures.
In the group accounts Premiers proportion of carried forward until either it is declared part of a commercial operating profit or loss, exceptional items, interest, taxation, development or the licence area or the exploration prospect is gross assets and gross liabilities of the joint ventures are included abandoned, at which point the relevant total is transferred to the gross equity method.
Where there are no development and producing assets within the cost pool, the transferred Turnover exploration costs are charged immediately to the profit and loss Turnover represents the sales value of the groups share of account.
The financing cost of borrowings in respect of a field petroleum production during the year.
Revenue receivable under development and related foreign exchange gains and losses take-or-pay gas sales contracts in respect of undelivered volumes are capitalised until production commences from that field.
is accounted for as deferred income.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 31 Accounting policies continued b Depreciation Amortisation of expenditure held in each Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax tangible cost pool is provided using the unit of production method rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing based on entitlement to proved and probable reserves of oil and differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or gas and estimated future development expenditure expected to substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
be incurred to access these reserves.
Changes in reserves are accounted for prospectively.
Pipeline assets are depreciated on Petroleum taxes are provided on a unit of production basis over a unit of throughput basis.
Depreciation on other fixed assets the estimated remaining life of each producing field.
The total is provided on a straight line basis to write them off over their tax for each producing field is calculated after deducting all estimated useful lives but not exceeding five years.
expenditure incurred on that field.
Deferred petroleum taxes are provided for on the difference between the amount of tax c Impairment of value An estimate of the discounted future calculated on the unit of production basis and current tax payable.
net revenues is made where there are indicators of impairment and compared to the net capitalised expenditure held in each Translation of foreign currencies cost pool.
Where, in the opinion of the directors, there is an In the accounts of individual companies, transactions denominated impairment, tangible asset values are written down accordingly in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual through the profit and loss account.
exchange rates as of the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the period Decommissioning end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the period Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full at the end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate commencement of oil and gas production.
The amount recognised subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
A exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
corresponding tangible fixed asset is also created at an amount equal to the provision.
This is subsequently depreciated as part For the purposes of consolidation the closing rate method is of the capital costs of the production facilities.
Any change in the used under which translation gains and losses on the opening present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an net assets of overseas undertakings are shown as a movement adjustment to the provision and the fixed asset.
Profit and loss accounts of overseas undertakings and foreign branches are translated at the average exchange rate for Stores, crude oil and products the period.
Exchange differences on foreign currency loans, to These are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the extent that they relate to investments in operations accounted Under and over lifts of crude oil are recorded at market value.
for in foreign currencies, are taken to reserves.
Deferred taxation Pension costs Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that The group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where requires contributions to be made to a separately administered transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in fund.
Contribution to this fund is charged in the profit and loss an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more account so as to spread the pension cost over the employees tax, with the following exceptions: working lives within the group.
The regular cost is attributed to Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance individual years using the projected unit method.
Variations in of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and pension cost, which are identified as a result of actuarial valuations, joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, are amortised over the average expected remaining working lives dividends have been accrued as receivable.
of employees in proportion to their expected payroll costs.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Differences between the amounts funded and the amounts directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will charged in the profit and loss account are treated as either be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the provisions or prepayments in the balance sheet.
underlying timing differences can be deducted.
32 Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Royalties Cash and liquid resources Royalties are charged as production costs to the profit and Cash, for the purposes of the cash flow statement, comprises loss account in the period in which the related production is cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts accounted for.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments Liquid resources comprise funds held in term deposit accounts.
Rentals payable for assets under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the Joint ventures and joint arrangements lease term.
The group accounts for joint arrangements which are not entities by recording its share of the arrangements assets, liabilities and Derivative financial instruments cash flows.
The group uses derivative financial instruments derivatives to manage its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and oil price fluctuations.
Foreign currency forward contracts are used to hedge future foreign currency commitments.
Gains and losses on these contracts are recognised at maturity.
The group may enter into interest rate swap transactions in its management of interest rate exposure.
Interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and floating interest rate payment obligations without exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
The results of these transactions are recognised in interest expense in the period hedged by the agreements.
Gains and losses arising on oil price derivatives are recognised in revenues from oil production when hedged volumes are sold.
The group only undertakes derivative transactions that directly relate to the underlying business of the group.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2004 33
