co. uk NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the company will be held c Extraordinary Resolution Resolution 11 at The Ramside Hall Hotel, Carrville, Durham, DH1 1TD on Wednesday 20 April 2005 at 11.30 am to transact the following business: That the company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Companies 1.
To consider and adopt the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004, together Act 1985 on the London Stock Exchange of ordinary shares of 5p each in its with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004, on the ordinary i this power shall be limited so that the number of ordinary shares of 5p shares of the company, of 14.07p per share.
Resolution 2 each which may be acquired pursuant to this authority does not exceed 29,362,485 ordinary shares and shall expire on 20 July 2006, or if earlier, 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting: and 2004.
Resolution 3 ii the price which may be paid for such ordinary shares does not exceed 4.
To elect Sir Richard Broadbent a director of the company.
Resolution 4 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from The Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days before the 5.
To re-elect directors retiring by rotation under the terms of the Articles of Association.
purchase is made and is not less than 5p per share in each case exclusive of expenses.
a Mr. S. P. Lonsdale Resolution 5 b Mr. S. J. Clayton Resolution 6 By order of the Board c Mr. D. R. Martin Resolution 7 D P TURNER Secretary Registered Office: 6.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the company and to Admiral Way authorise the directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 8 Doxford International Business Park Sunderland 7.
As special business to consider and if thought fit pass the following resolutions: SR3 3XP a Ordinary Resolution Resolution 9 21 March 2005 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 80 Companies Act 1985 The Act to exercise NOTES any power of the company to allot and grant rights to subscribe for relevant 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint one or more securities as defined in Section 80 of The Act of the company up to a proxies, who need not be members of the company, to attend and vote on maximum nominal amount equal to the nominal amount of the authorised his behalf.
but unissued share capital of the company at the date of the passing of this resolution PROVIDED THAT the authority hereby given shall expire on the fifth 2.
A proxy form is enclosed for use in respect of resolutions 1 to 11.
Forms of proxy anniversary of the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed or varied must be received at the transfer office of the company at least 48 hours before the save that the directors may, notwithstanding such expiry, allot any relevant meeting whether in manual or electronic format.
Completion and submission of the securities or grant any such rights under this authority in pursuance of an offer proxy form will not preclude the shareholder from attending and voting at the or agreement so to do made by the company before the expiry of this authority.
Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
A statement of transactions of the directors in the shares of the company together with copies of any directors service contracts, will be available for inspection during That the directors, pursuant to the general authority conferred by an ordinary business hours from the date hereof until the day of the Annual General Meeting at resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting of the company held on the registered office and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting from 11.15 am 27 April 2001, be and they are hereby empowered under Section 95 of the until its conclusion.
Companies Act 1985 to allot for cash equity securities either pursuant to the authority so conferred or where the equity securities are held by the company 4.
If approved, the proposed final dividend of 14.07p per ordinary share will be paid on as treasury shares as if Section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to such allotment, 3 May 2005, to shareholders on the Register at 5 pm on 1 April 2005.
PROVIDED THAT this power shall: i be limited to the allotment of equity securities, pursuant to a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer, in favour of ordinary shareholders, where the equity securities, respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders, are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the number of ordinary shares held by them subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory overseas : and ii be limited to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above or pursuant to The Arriva plc Executive Share Option Scheme, The Arriva plc Share Incentive Scheme, The Arriva plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2000 and The Arriva plc Share Incentive Plan 2004 of equity securities to an aggregate nominal amount of 489,374: and iii expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company or, if earlier, the day which is 15 months from the passing of this resolution, save that the company is hereby enabled to make an offer or agreement before such expiry, which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
58 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
