Statement of accounting policies Principal accounting policies In relation to the associated undertakings Vehicles held on consignment from The accounts have been prepared and joint ventures, the amounts included manufacturers are included in the under the historical cost accounting in the consolidated accounts are taken balance sheet where it is considered that convention, and comply with applicable from the latest accounts of the the Group enjoys the benefits and carries UK accounting standards and with the undertakings details are set out on the risk of ownership.
Vehicles included requirements of the Companies Act 1985 pages 61 and 78. in stocks which are subject to repurchase except as set out under Goodwill below.
agreements are included at the agreed Under section 230 4 of the Companies repurchase price or net realisable value FRS 17 Retirement benefits Act 1985 the Company is exempt from whichever is lower.
In both of these The Group is following the transitional the requirement to present its own profit cases the associated liability is included arrangements under which additional and loss account.
disclosure on retirement benefits is required in the notes to the accounts Turnover Taxation for the year ended 31 December 2004 Turnover is based on the invoiced value The charge for taxation is based on the see note 33. of goods and services.
It excludes sales profit for the year and takes into account between Group undertakings, VAT and taxation deferred because of timing UITF 38 Accounting for ESOPs & UITF similar sales-based taxes.
differences between the treatment of 17 Employee share schemes certain items for taxation and accounting Following the publication of Tech 64 04 RAC roadside membership subscriptions purposes.
on 21 December 2004, there is further are apportioned on a time basis over the guidance on implementing UITF 38 and period to which they relate.
The There is a Group payment arrangement the revised UITF 17.
As a consequence, unrecognised proportion of subscription in place between RAC plc and the Inland the investment in own shares is now income is held within creditors as Revenue such that all UK corporation tax shown as a deduction within the profit deferred income.
payments and receipts within the RAC and loss reserve, instead of being shown plc Group excluding joint ventures and as a separate deduction from Tangible fixed assets associates are made or received by shareholders funds as in the past.
As Tangible fixed assets are stated RAC plc.
Accordingly, RAC plc charges permitted by UITF 17 the Group does at historical cost less accumulated or credits all UK corporation tax balances not apply the requirements to its Inland depreciation.
to its intercompany account with Revenue approved Save-As-You-Earn subsidiaries as they arise.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided to write down Deferred tax is recognised in respect of Consolidation tangible fixed assets to their estimated all timing differences that have originated The Group accounts include the residual values as follows: but not reversed at the balance sheet accounts of the Company and its date, where transactions or events that subsidiary undertakings made up to Land and buildings result in an obligation to pay more tax in 31 December 2004.
Unless otherwise The cost of each freehold, long and the future or a right to pay less tax in the stated, the acquisition method of short leasehold building is depreciated future have occurred at the balance accounting has been adopted.
Under on a straight line basis over its estimated sheet date.
this method, the results of subsidiary useful life.
The estimated remaining undertakings acquired or disposed of in useful life of the buildings averages 23 A deferred tax asset is regarded as the year are included in the consolidated years.
Long leases are defined as those recoverable and therefore recognised profit and loss account from the date of having 50 or more years unexpired at the only when, on the basis of all available acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Freehold land is not evidence, it can be regarded as more Intra-group sales and profits are depreciated.
likely than not that there will be suitable eliminated fully on consolidation.
taxable profits from which the future Vehicles, plant and machinery and assets reversal of the underlying timing An associate is an undertaking in held on contract hire differences can be deducted.
which the group has a long-term interest, The cost of vehicles is depreciated to usually less than 50% of the equity voting estimated residual value on a straight line Deferred tax is not discounted.
rights, and over which it exercises basis at annual rates between 20% and significant influence.
Plant and machinery is depreciated Pension costs of the profits less losses of associates on a straight line basis at annual rates The expected cost of providing pensions is included in the consolidated profit and between 7% and 20%.
and other post-retirement benefits is loss account and its interest in their net charged to the profit and loss account so assets is included in investments in the Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment as to spread the cost over the expected consolidated balance sheet.
The cost of fixtures, fittings, tools and remaining service lives of current equipment is depreciated on a straight employees.
Variations from regular costs A joint venture is an undertaking in which line basis at annual rates between 10% are spread over the expected remaining the Group has a long-term interest over and 20%.
Computer equipment is service lives of current eligible which it exercises joint control.
The depreciated on a straight line basis at employees.
The pension cost is Groups share of the profits less losses annual rates between 10% and 33%.
assessed in accordance with the advice of joint ventures is included in the of qualified actuaries, using the projected consolidated profit and loss account and Stocks unit method.
its interest in their net assets is included Stocks are valued at the lower of cost in investments in the consolidated and net realisable value.
Cost is arrived balance sheet.
at principally on the average and first in, first out FIFO basis.
Provisions are made against obsolete and surplus stocks.
44 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Goodwill The results of overseas subsidiary acquired under finance leases is included Purchased goodwill arising on undertakings, associates and joint in fixed assets and in creditors as an consolidation in respect of acquisitions ventures are translated into sterling at obligation to pay future rentals.
before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10 average rates for the period except for Depreciation is provided at the same Goodwill and intangible assets was material exceptional items which are rates as for owned assets.
adopted, was written off to reserves in the translated at the rate on the date of the year of acquisition.
The adjustment to financial Rentals payable under finance leases are disposal occurs, any related goodwill year end rates is taken to reserves.
apportioned between the finance charge previously written off to reserves is written and the outstanding obligation so as to back through the profit and loss account Differences on exchange arising from the produce a constant rate of charge on the as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
translation of the net assets of subsidiary remaining balance.
undertakings and foreign currency debt Purchased goodwill arising on financing those assets are taken to Cash and liquid resources consolidation in respect of acquisitions reserves and are reported in the Cash, for the purpose of the cash flow since 1 January 1998 is capitalised.
statement of total consolidated statement, comprises cash in hand and In most cases, positive goodwill is recognised gains and losses.
Other deposits repayable on demand, less amortised to nil by equal annual exchange differences are taken to the overdrafts payable on demand.
instalments over its estimated useful profit and loss account.
The goodwill arising on Liquid resources are current asset the acquisition of AXAs interest in RAC Derivatives and other financial investments which may be disposed Financial Services and the renewal rights instruments of without curtailing or disrupting the of AXA Direct is amortised on a reducing Short term debtors and creditors as business and are either readily convertible balance rate of approximately 25% per defined in FRS 13 Derivatives and other into known amounts of cash at or close annum based on the anticipated renewal financial instruments have been excluded to their carrying values or traded in an rate.
On the subsequent disposal or from the disclosures in note 36, save active market.
termination of a business acquired since those relating to currency risk.
1 January 1998, the profit or loss on Pre-contract costs disposal or termination is calculated Derivative financial instruments used to Pre-contract costs are written off as after charging the unamortised amount hedge interest rate and foreign currency incurred, except that directly attributable of any related goodwill.
exposures are accounted for as they are costs are capitalised as an asset when settled.
Any gains or losses on these it is virtually certain that the contract Goodwill relating to the acquisition of instruments are reported in the profit will be obtained and when the contract RAC Holdings Limited amounting to and loss account.
is expected to result in future net cash 404.6 million has been capitalised.
The inflows with a present value no less than directors consider that this goodwill has Operating leases all amounts recognised as an asset.
an indefinite life due to the durability of Operating lease rentals are charged to the business as demonstrated over more the profit and loss account on a straight than 100 years and accordingly it is not line basis over the life of the lease.
amortised but is subject to annual review for impairment.
This is not in accordance Assets held for use in operating leases with Schedule 4 to the Companies Act are recorded as fixed assets and are 1985 which requires that all goodwill be depreciated over their useful lives to their amortised.
The directors consider that estimated residual value.
this would fail to give a true and fair view of the profit for the year and that the With the exception of Lex Vehicle Leasing economic measure of performance in Holdings Limited income from operating any period is properly made by reference leases is credited to the profit and loss only to any impairment that may have account on a straight line basis over the arisen.
It is not practicable to quantify the life of the contract.
effect on the accounts of this departure.
Any impairment charge is included within Lex Vehicle Leasing Holdings Limited, operating profits.
a joint venture, credits net income on operating leases, after charging interest, Foreign currencies depreciation, maintenance and other Transactions in foreign currencies costs, to the profit and loss account are recorded at the rate of exchange at to give a constant rate of return on the the date of the transaction or, if hedged operating lease asset over the period forward, at the rate of exchange under of the contract.
the related forward exchange contract.
Finance leases Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign Leases which confer rights and currencies are translated into sterling at obligations similar to those attaching the financial year end rates.
to owned assets are defined as finance leases.
The present value of future minimum lease payments of assets RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2004 45
