OPERATIONS AND PROJECTS MORILA GOLD MINE The Morila mine struggled for much of the year before the commissioning of the plant expansion in September but completed the year with a very good fourth quarter.
In the first three quarters of the year, gold production dropped due to expected lower grades and the failure to increase tonnage throughput as a result of the delay in commissioning the plant expansion project.
Nevertheless the mine still produced 510 485 ounces at a total cash cost of US$184 per ounce.
Profit margins dropped as a result of increased costs and the production difficulties, but by year-end substantial profits were again being made as higher grade was being accessed in the pit and the plant was functioning to design specification.
The Morila mine is owned by a Malian company, Morila SA which in turn is owned 80% by Morila Limited and 20% by the State of Mali.
Morila Limited is jointly owned by Randgold Resources and AngloGold Ashanti Limited.
The mine is controlled by a 50:50 joint venture management committee with day-to-day operations being the responsibility of AngloGold Services Mali SA Anser, a Malian subsidiary of AngloGold Ashanti, under an operating agreement.
The Randgold Resources team was forced to intervene to assist the operator to identify the problems hampering production and, with its joint venture partner, developed a technical action plan.
The implementation of this plan was closely monitored and by the end of the third quarter was starting to achieve the return to design production levels.
Following Randgold Resources ongoing dissatisfaction with the way the mine was being operated, a management change was agreed to by the partners whereby the mine would in future be under the direct day-to-day management of a jointly appointed, independent managing director.
During the final quarter of the year, the mines production exceeded the milestone of 3 million ounces of gold produced since inception and by year-end the mine had produced 3.13 million ounces of gold at a total cash cost of US$105 per ounce.
Total cash profit for the year was US$89.6 million and dividends to shareholders totalling US$2.8 million were made.
The total distribution including the repayment of shareholder loans to Randgold Resources during the year amounted to US$11 million.
The remaining project debt was paid back during the year to the consortium of lending banks as PAGE FOUR TEEN were the remaining shareholder loans.
The original gold hedge financial instruments taken out as a funding requirement was also finally delivered into and Morilas production is now totally unhedged and will benefit fully from the spot price.
At year-end there was an outstanding amount of some US$30.9 million to be recovered from the State of Mali in the form of value-added tax repayments and reimbursable fuel duties of which US$12.4 million is attributable to Randgold Resources.
A summary of the salient production and financial statistics as well as a comparison with the previous years results follows: MORILA PRODUCTION AND FINANCIAL STATISTICS 2004 2003 Mined tonnes million tonnes 26.6 23.5 Ore tonnes million tonnes 5.3 4.1 Mined grade g t 4.3 6.8 Ore tonnes milled million tonnes 3.5 3.3 Head grade g t 5.2 8.3 Recovery % 87.9 91.0 Ounces produced oz 510 485 793 992 Average gold price received US$ oz US$382 US$345 Cash operating cost excluding royalty US$ oz US$158 US$76 Total cash cost US$ oz US$184 US$100 Cash profit US$ million US$89.8 US$194.8 Refer to note 25: Notes to the Annual Financial Statements page 84.
During calendar year 2004, an amount of some US$17 million was paid to the Malian government in payroll taxes, duties, royalties and dividends and a further amount of approximately US$76 million was paid to Malian businesses for goods and services rendered.
Geology, exploration and orebody definition The Morila permit is situated in the northern portion of the West African craton and is underlain by lower proterozoic birrimian meta-sedimentary sequences and large granitoid intrusions.
The deposit locates west of a major regional structure known as the Banifin shear zone.
The gold mineralisation is hydrothermal in origin, is contained within metamorphosed sediments close to a contact with an intrusive tonalite and is hosted within a shallow dipping shear zone referred to as the Morila shear zone MSZ.
The alteration envelope is dominantly characterised by silica-feldspar flooding and the sulphide mineralisation consists of arsenopyrite, pyrrhotite, pyrite and trace chalcopyrite.
Exploration efforts at Morila to further define the orebody as well as find new mineralised zones were concentrated in several areas last year: Exploration of the area peripheral to the north west of the existing pit MSZ West : Drilling of the Samacline target: PAGE FIFTEEN Infill drilling of fringe areas: and 2 Exploration of the 200km mining lease based on the development of a structurally controlled mineralisation model.
A significant expansion of the resource base was achieved as a result of the success of the drilling programme in the MSZ West area.
Indicated and inferred resources were increased by some 750 000 ounces and indications are that a major part of this resource could, with further drilling, be reclassified as reserves.
Exploration for extensions to the orebody as well as in other areas of the lease area is described in the Exploration Review.
Mineral resources and grade control The mineral resource base calculated using the results from the infill diamond drill and reverse circulation programmes, depleted to the end of 2004 appears below: Attributable MORILA Tonnes Mt Grade g t Gold Moz gold MINERAL RESOURCES 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Moz Measured 17.32 13.09 2.95 3.50 1.64 1.45 40% Indicated 11.96 17.47 3.56 3.82 1.37 2.15 Sub-total Measured and indicated 29.28 30.56 3.20 3.68 3.01 3.62 1.20 Inferred 4.47 2.06 3.79 2.96 0.54 0.20 0.20 Total Measured, indicated and inferred 33.75 32.62 3.28 3.64 3.55 3.81 1.42 Cut-off grade for resources 1g t. Resources are reported within the US$400 oz pit shell.
See comments and US disclaimer on page 87.
Despite depletion of almost 600 000 ounces by mining in 2004, the exploration success in delineating additional resources to the north west of the existing pit MSZ West has led to a decrease of only 260 000 ounces in the total resource base.
Significantly, total measured resources have increased to 46% from 39% last year.
A sophisticated grade control and management system is in use to ensure effective selective mining, minimum ore losses and the attainment of the desired feed grade.
Close-spaced reverse circulation RC drilling programmes have replaced the use of blast hole sampling for grade control wherever possible.
The initial RC drill spacing is 20 metres by 20 metres closing up to a grid of 10 metres by 10 metres in areas where ore grade is highly variable.
PAGE SIXTEEN In order to increase mining efficiencies the grade control and mine planning departments have worked more closely with the mining contractor and have been able to increase mining efficiencies, thus reducing costs.
Ore is selectively stockpiled near the crusher and the planned ore feed grade to the plant is achieved by blending the stockpile ore with directly tipped ore ex-pit.
Mine planning and reserves The 2003 mine plan was updated during the year using the resource base quoted at yearend.
During the first half of the year the Phase 2 pit, which had been developed to optimally exploit the high-grade payshoot to the north-east, was completed and mining carried on exclusively on the Phase 3 pit.
Considerable effort was put into mining this pit as quickly as possible to access the high-grade zone which was achieved by the fourth quarter.
Phase 4 pit development has commenced with waste stripping of near surface weathered ore.
Estimated reserves amount to 25.79 million tonnes at a grade of 3.11g t containing 2.58 million ounces of gold as tabulated below: Attributable MORILA Tonnes Mt Grade g t Gold Moz gold ORE RESERVES 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Moz Proven 11.92 11.01 3.39 3.55 1.30 1.26 Probable 13.87 14.73 2.87 3.88 1.28 1.84 40% Sub-total 25.79 25.74 3.11 3.70 2.58 3.10 1.03 Reserves are reported at a gold price of US$375 oz.
Dilution of 10% and ore loss of 5% are incorporated into the calculation of reserves.
Cut-off grade of 1.4g t. Stockpiled ore included.
While the gold price at which pit optimisation has been run has increased from US$350 oz to US$375 oz, this has been offset by substantial increases in costs mainly related to increased transport, power and mining costs.
The orebody model has changed as a result of additional drilling in fringe areas and changes in interpretation methodology.
New mineral resources outlined in the MSZ West extension have been converted to reserves and further drilling is planned to bring more into the reserve category.
The increased density of drilling has led to the proportion of reserves in the higher-confidence proven category to increase from 41% to 50%.
Based on the current reserves it is estimated that mining activities will cease during 2008 with processing of stockpiles continuing until 2011.
PAGE SEVENTEEN Exploration successes at the Samacline target as well as elsewhere on the lease offer the opportunity to further extend the life and profitability of the operation.
This is described more fully in the Exploration Review.
Mining Mining operations are carried out under contract by Somadex, which is a subsidiary of DTP Terrassement, the mining arm of the French construction company Bouygues.
Following the negotiation of a partnership agreement which incorporates the principle of sharing the potential savings achieved by the contractor using agreed productivity assumptions and allowing for an agreed return, the mine management played a more direct role in the management of the open pit operation.
After a settling down period this partnership started to take effect and by the second half of the year productivities had improved substantially and started to approach what we consider acceptable.
During the year additional fleet comprising 9 CAT 769 35-tonne trucks were brought to site as well as additional excavation equipment in order to assist with waste stripping requirements.
MORILA MINING RESULTS 2004 Ore tonnes mined million tonnes 5.34 Ore grade g t 4.30 Waste mined million tonnes 21.26 Stripping ratio 3.98 Total tonnes mined million tonnes 26.60 Again following previous attempts, further attention has been given to the optimisation of blasting with a view to improving the blast fragmentation and therefore the mine to mill project continued with the powder factor being optimised and leading to better fragmentation.
The emphasis in mining will now turn to improvements to be made in blast patterns and blast initiation.
Ore processing and metallurgy The performance of the Morila metallurgical plant was very disappointing in 2004.
Not only was the commissioning of the plant expansion delayed until the fourth quarter but other operational inefficiencies were also not dealt with in a timely manner.
Issues that impacted on production were: Unstable milling performance which led to coarser than planned grind: CIL tank downtime which shortened residence times leading to lower recoveries: Poor plant availability caused by unscheduled shut-downs of the pre-CIL circuit: Downtime related to tie-ins of the new sections of the plant with the old sections: Poor maintenance.
After intervention by Randgold Resources and AngloGold Ashantis senior management, a technical action plan was developed along with a timetable to correct the operational PAGE EIGHTEEN inefficiencies and return the mine to planned performance levels.
This plan was implemented by the mine management and closely monitored by the partners resulting in daily tonnages and grades reaching design levels by the end of the third quarter.
Completion testing was carried out at the beginning of October with a target rate of more than 500 tonnes per hour at 91% gold recovery.
At the end of a nine-day continuous period the plant had successfully achieved an 81.4% grind passing 75 microns at a throughput rate of 516 tonnes per hour and a plant recovery of 92%.
The average milling rate per month for the fourth quarter was 337 000 tonnes per month which is just short of design capacity of the expanded plant.
Total tonnage milled in 2004 thus exceeded that for 2003.
MORILA RESULTS SUMMARY 2004 Tonnes processed million tonnes 3.51 Head grade g t 5.15 Recovery % 87.90 Residue grade g t 0.62 Gold production tonnes 15.88 Ounces produced 510 485 Plant expansion The plant expansion project commenced in the first quarter of 2003 and was designed to increase the plant throughput from its original nameplate 250 000 tonnes per month to as much as 350 000 tonnes per month with the intention of allowing the processing of lower grade ore through reduced costs as a result of economies of scale.
This is aimed at ameliorating the increase in unit costs resulting from the forecast grade drop in the later years of the mine life.
After an initial delay in the original planned completion, the project was expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2004.
However difficulties encountered in the management of the contractor as well as contributory tie-in problems with the existing plant delayed completion of the project until the third quarter of the year.
The new facilities include a secondary crusher circuit, which allows optimum control of the mill feed size in order to maximise mill circuit throughput.
Other facilities to cater for 3 the increase in production include four additional leach tanks, each with 2 500m capacity which provide the necessary residence time for maintaining the current high gold recovery levels.
A new cyclone cluster is also being installed to ensure adequate classification at the higher production levels.
The tailings stream is being passed through a new thickener which will reduce discharge cyanide levels.
PAGE NINETEEN Human resources Manning levels related to permanent and temporary Morila and contractor employees on the mine are as follows: MORILA EMPLOYEES Number National permanent 406 Temporary 44 Expatriate 50 Total 500 Contractor employees Contractor employees numbers increased during the year with the start of the plant expansion project in March 2003.
The recruitment of labour for the project was controlled for the contractor by the mine using a Malian labour broker.
The community development committee assisted with recruitment to ensure access to job opportunities created 195 for local villagers and a fair distribution between villages.
The major contractors on the mine are the mining contractor Somadex, construction contractor MDM, security contractors AMM and catering contractors ESS.
MORILA CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES Number Nationals 850 Expatriates 87 Total 937 Personnel administration Performance management, job evaluation and housing systems are operating successfully following implementation.
Training courses have been undertaken to ensure these are fully comprehended by the workforce.
Training and development The Malianisation programme is now fully integrated with the manpower plan and training and development strategy.
The programme was enhanced by the introduction of a university scholarship scheme during the year.
This scheme is designed to send four Malian students to South African universities to study for undergraduate degrees.
Assistance in selecting students to be awarded scholarships was provided by the Ministry of Education and the University of Mali.
Three members of staff attended a management development programme and three attended the intermediate management development programme held in South Africa.
PAGE TWENTY Four expatriate posts were Malianised during 2003 and Randgold Resources is encouraging the mine to accelerate this process as competency based training and development courses are completed.
US AID assisted the mine with a series of cultural diversity courses attended by over 100 employees.
Six apprentices qualified to artisan level after successfully passing competency tests during 2003.
Community relations Continued support has been given to schools and clinics in the area, the well-established HIV AIDS awareness and mosquito control campaigns have been enhanced and the irrigated gardens set up in the villages have been added to by the start-up of a ricegrowing project at Morila and Fingola villages.
The Morila community development trust fund of US$500 000 became operational early in 2004.
The trust fund has as trustees members of the community, mine management and representatives from government ministries and aims to further assist communities close to the mine in the sustainable development of the area.
Industrial relations This was an eventful year for Morila industrial relations.
For most of 2004 tough negotiations took place between Morila management and the Morila union, assisted by the national union, on a demand from the union related to a productivity bonus Prime fide Rendement.
While management was willing to implement a bonus scheme based on commercial and productivity criteria, the unions demand was viewed by management as unrelated to productivity and excessive to the point of being unrealistic.
The negotiations led to a settlement of the issue in November this year.
Although negotiations were difficult and one three-day work stoppage, called by the national union, was experienced in June, they took place in a calm atmosphere and good relations between the union and management were maintained throughout the year.
One important spin-off of the negotiations was the capacity built among the Morila unions representatives regarding their role as union officials and negotiators and an appreciation for the realities of the business and the interdependence of management and other employees.
Negotiations on a mine level agreement to enhance understanding and regulate industrial relations on the mine have restarted at Morila following the settlement of the Prime fide Rendement dispute.
This agreement is designed to complement and clarify many of the Rights and Interests outlined in the existing National Mining Industry Collective Agreement that was written in 1985.
PAGE TWENTY-ONE MALI: LOULO MINE UNDER CONSTRUCTION PAGE TWENTY-TWO LOULO PROJECT The Loulo mine project is situated in western Mali adjacent to the Falm River which forms the frontier with Senegal.
It is located 350 kilometres west of Bamako and 220 kilometres south of Kayes.
Geologically Loulo falls within the Birrimian sequence of the Kenieba inlier.
This succession of volcano-sedimentary and clastic rocks contains several major regional shear structures hosting gold deposits such as Sadiola, Segala, Tabakoto and Loulo.
Loulo is situated 96 kilometres from Sadiola and approximately 25 kilometres from Segala and Tabakoto.
The company owns 80% of Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA Somilo and the other 20% is held by the State of Mali.
Following an updated feasibility study on the Loulo project in 2003 and a rise in the gold price, the boards of Somilo SA and Randgold Resources approved the development of Loulo.
The early completion of the bulk civil works ahead of the 2004 wet season and the maintenance of the access to site during the rains has facilitated the fast-track development approach to support early gold production in July 2005.
Plant design and construction The preferred comminution route at Loulo is crushing and ball milling, which is the most power-efficient option.
The stage crushing circuit is also designed to facilitate much smoother commissioning.
The plant layout has been revised to allow access to crushing facilities outside of the plant high security zone, which now only cordons off the milling, gravity, CIL, elution and gold recovery circuits.
This set-up facilitates easier maintenance of the crusher plant and minimises the number of personnel within the high security zone.
Early completion of the main plant civil construction has allowed us to maintain the fasttrack development of the project.
Production of the main construction supply materials, aggregate, sand and water have been secured for the programme.
All plant and infrastructure terracing is complete, along with the main civil construction for the first phase of gold production from the oxide material.
The skyline was broken with the erection of the sites three tower cranes.
The main tower crane is the largest on the African continent in terms of its ability to carry load at span.
The unit can carry a load of up to 15 tonnes at a span of 55 metres from the centre of the crane.
Fabrication of the mines two ball mills is complete and they are being shipped to site for delivery in March 2005.
Tailings storage facility The design of the tailings disposal facility has been finalised and this is currently being constructed some six kilometres east of the process plant and site clearance has commenced.
Water supply Construction of the additions to the natural weir across the Falm River close to Loulo have been completed, providing sufficient storage capacity for mining operations.
During the dry season the weir was raised to a maximum of one metre across the 300 metre width of the river.
The weir across the Falm River downstream of the proposed mine water intake is to retain water in the river basin for use in the dry season when the flow of the river stops.
The augmentation of the weir was authorised by Direction Nationale Hydraulique DNH, the Malian water authority and the Senegal River Authority OMVS, of which the Falm is a tributary.
The weir along with the Garra storage dam and the tailings storage facility are key to Loulos water management strategy.
PAGE TWENTY-THREE Mine infrastructure Construction of the main mine housing estate is well advanced and occupation of some units has started.
The mine administration offices are also nearing completion.
Security at the site has been improved with the completion of the main perimeter fence, clearance of the mine perimeter area, the commencement of the mine security force patrol and access control operations.
A separate contractors camp, which was erected at the start of construction, is still in use.
Access roads Loulo is in a remote area where regional infrastructure is inadequate for the development of a mine.
In 2004, the upgrading of the access roads to Loulo started.
The supply route through Mali and Senegal from the port of Dakar to site is now in good condition.
A 27 kilometre laterite-topped road was built from the mine to Kenieti using Somilo heavy equipment and employing local labour and vehicles to carry laterite from borrow pits.
Waterway crossings drifts, were built with laterite boulders and concrete using local unskilled labour to excavate and pack the boulders into the drifts and to consolidate with a cement and river sand mixture.
Two bridges with culvert pipes had to be built to allow access where crossing larger waterways was necessary.
A programme to upgrade the 90 kilometres of national road from Sadiola to Kenieti was undertaken.
Where trouble spots for the forthcoming wet season were identified, laterite drifts were built.
Where necessary, the road was widened and water run-off trenches dug to allow better access for heavy vehicles.
Five dams were constructed along this route for use by local villages and for water for further road improvements.
The upgraded and constructed roads remained open during the wet season and enabled the safe passage of vehicles to the mine delivering supplies and construction materials.
They also serve to improve access to villages along the route.
A five kilometre direct road was built between the mine and Loulo village for the transport of employees and for improved access to the village.
This road incorporated one drift and one bridge.
A dam was built at the village to retain a supply of water through the dry season.
An agreement to recover expenditure on the upgrading and maintenance of the national route from Sadiola to Kenieti from a portion of the Government royalties has been finalised.
Power supply The mine will own its power generation facility, which will be operated and maintained by Manutention Africaine, the Malian Caterpillar affiliate.
The generation facility will initially house 15 Caterpillar 3 512 units with a total rated capacity of 18 megawatts.
The facility has been designed to accommodate a further six units to allow for expansion.
Manutention Africaine is on site and is currently supplying construction power to the site.
Mine operations Earthmoving In July 2004, the Loulo contract for the mining works was awarded to BCM Mali SA, a subsidiary of BCM International Ltd. BCM have extensive mining contracting experience in the West African region garnered since the start of their operations in Ghana in the early 1990s.
BCM started mobilising their first infrastructure, equipment and personnel to site during October and November 2004.
Construction of the workshop facility started in October and has been progressing well with the foundation and the steel construction in place by the end of December 2004.
Five Caterpillar 777D trucks and one Caterpillar 5110B excavator were mobilised to site during November with additional and ancillary plant scheduled to be mobilised during December and January.
PAGE TWENTY-FOUR UEE, the explosive supplier, started with the construction of their magazine area during November and this work was completed by mid-December.
Clearing and grubbing activities started during the month of November, focusing on the ROM pad area and the Loulo 0 haul road to the ROM pad.
Part of the Loulo 0 pit area was cleared in mid-December and after topsoil was removed the first bucket was dug on 23 December, marking the official start of mining operations.
The initial focus will be to build up the ROM pad with waste from Loulo 0.
By March soft ore from Yalea will be mined and stockpiled to be used for commissioning of the plant in July 2005.
Mineral resources Deep drilling programmes carried out during the year as well as shallower infill drilling has lead to a remodelling of both the Loulo O and Yalea orebodies.
The total resource inventory at Loulo including satellite pits now stands at 8.04 million ounces, a significant increase over the 5.32 million ounces declared last year.
Of the total, 4.21 million ounces are classified in the measured and indicated categories, see comments and US disclaimer on page 87.
The mineral resource base is tabulated below.
Ore reserves estimates have been based on pit optimisation at a spot price of US$375 per ounce and incorporated the companys hedging structure.
Ore reserves have increased from 1.42 million ounces announced last year and now stand at 1.85 million ounces.
Proved ore reserves comprise 88% of the total.
Reserves are tabulated below resources.
Processing The workforce will be introduced to plant operations in a training programme at the Morila gold plant in the second quarter of 2005.
In the selection of potential plant personnel operation and maintenance we prepared a list of people from local villages Djidian-Kniba, Loulo, Baboto, Bolibanta, Sakola, Dabara, Sitakili who were submitted for aptitude testing.
These tests were conducted from 24 to 28 December 2004 by a professional agency.
Selected personnel will undergo training on site at Loulo prior to further plant training at Morila.
Work is progressing on establishing the process accounting system and the plant operational control templates.
Site operational staff are also conducting due diligence on the plant and construction work and a check is being done on the first fill reagents and stores needed to fill the plant circuit at start-up requirements as well as the operational spares needs.
Engineering Engineering staff on site are geared to monitor the construction process, particularly with respect to the quality of the work ensuring that agreed quality standards are maintained throughout the mine and infrastructure construction areas and that stringent safety standards are adhered to.
Work on the structuring and implementation of maintenance planning and working procedures is progressing satisfactorily and will be completed ahead of the startup of the process plant.
The requirements for strategic and capital spares have been analysed and implemented and orders for some of the longer delivery items have been placed.
Maintenance of the mine construction fleet roads and ancillaries continues and improves as more facilities are established.
Light vehicle maintenance procedures have been implemented and are working satisfactorily.
PAGE TWENTY-SIX Environment A report of water baseline quality data was received from Digby Wells and Associates.
The overall quality of the groundwater and surface water is good and indicates that natural background concentrations do not exceed the recommended environmental target guidelines set out by the World Bank.
Piezometre levels are checked weekly to provide historical baseline data for the operation.
The annual rainfall January to December 2004 was 914 millimetres, which occurred over 63 days.
Human resources All construction labour used by Somilo SA and MDM were employed by UPS, the site labour broker.
UPS is the sole labour broker, having signed a labour supply contract with Randgold Resources.
The policy of recruitment used by UPS is to give job priority to the local labour.
The 2004 year ended with 660 workers split into 278 for UPS Somilo and sub-contractors, and 382 for UPS MDM Ferroman and sub-contractors.
Personnel of BCM mining and UEE explosives were mobilising to site at the end of the year.
Worker representatives were selected by MDM workforce to hold regular meetings with MDM site management.
Despite this, wildcat work stoppages have occurred due to a number of issues.
Regular meetings were held between MDM workforce representatives and management to solve these labour issues and the industrial relations climate on site remains stable.
The Loulo mine security contract was awarded to Agence Mali Management AMM and a site security force was put in place in early November 2004.
Community relations At Loulo, water wells and pumps have been provided to the six villages surrounding the project.
A demonstration irrigated vegetable garden has been established to train local farmers in the growing and marketing of vegetables to the project and local markets.
Medical treatment and medical evacuations to Bamako by air have been provided to local villagers throughout the year.
Medical supplies have been provided to the Sitakili clinic, logistical needs and other assistance were provided by the project medical and transport teams to enable UNICEF to mount a vaccination campaign in all the villages of the Sitakili commune.
The project has built and repaired infrastructure in the local villages and in Sitakili, the main village in the commune, such as septic tanks and water storage facilities for cattle.
Other resources were also applied in the form of a community development manager and a community development officer who were appointed at Loulo during the first quarter of 2004.
Beneficial spin-offs accrued to the communities surrounding the Loulo project from the construction of infrastructure.
The project has built roads in and around the area, erected a road bridge at Baboto and a weir across the Falm River.
This infrastructure, has assisted villagers in many ways, for example to access markets and move their livestock to new pastures.
Industrial relations Industrial relations systems and procedures were drafted during the year in preparation for the start-up of operations during 2005.
On-going assistance has been given by PAGE TWENTY-SEVEN Randgold Resources to the contractors building the Loulo mine, to ensure fair treatment and sound relationships are maintained with their employees and their representatives.
Financial As at 31 December 2004 a total of US$67.6 million had been spent on the Loulo project, in line with the build-up of construction.
This total includes US$49.4 million related to the MDM contract, US$5.48 million on preliminary and general expenses related to Randgold Resources and associated site costs, US$2.02 million on the construction of the weir across the Falm River and the access roads from Sadiola to Loulo, plus US$6.3 million on drilling costs.
Peak funding for the project is forecast to be approximately US$89 million.
The project is being funded by a US$60 million project finance loan from a consortium of banks: Rothschild, SG Corporate and Investment Bank, Absa Bank and HVB Group.
The funds are secured over the assets of the project.
US$35 million of the facility had been drawn at year-end.
The balance of the funding is by way of shareholder loans.
Randgold Resources is financing the government of Malis twenty per cent contributory interest and will be re-imbursed from cashflows from the operation.
Other contracts ESS Eurest Support Services is established on site providing our catering and accommodation services.
SGS Analabs has been awarded the contract to provide the mines analytical laboratory services.
They are expected to mobilise to site in March 2005.
Interim requirements will be met by the Kayes laboratory of SGS Analabs.
Timescale With the commencement of construction early in 2004, the key production target is to pour first gold in July 2005.
The programme remains dependent on maintaining access and the timely delivery of the mills in March 2005.
The mine is planned to produce at an estimated average rate in excess of 200 000 ounces per annum from open pit operations.
Loulo underground development study The potential for the development of two long-life underground mines exploiting the deep extensions of the orebodies below the open pit reserves at Loulo 0 and Yalea was reinforced during the year.
Following the return of good results from drill holes to depths of 500 metres below surface at Yalea and 400 metres below surface at Loulo 0 summarised in a table appearing on page 35 of this report, SRK Consulting completed a prefeasibility study.
The results are summarised below: LOULO UNDERGROUND PREFEASIBILITY STUDY Yalea Loulo 0 Resources Measured and indicated 14.16 Mt @ 4.03g t 15.87 Mt @ 4.05g t Underground only 1.84 Mozs 2.07 Mozs Mining rate - north 55 000 tonnes per 55 000 tonnes per month using month using sub-level open stoping sub-level open stoping with or without fill with or without fill PAGE TWENTY-EIGHT LOULO UNDERGROUND PREFEASIBILITY STUDY Yalea Loulo 0 Mining rate - south 16 000 tonnes per month using ramp in stope mining method Opex North US$44.50 tonne US$43.50 tonne South US$51.50 tonne Capex US$58 million US$43 million pre-production and pre-production and ongoing capital ongoing capital Life of Mine 18 years 20 years Based on the above results SRK Consulting concluded that the project has the potential to yield positive results and have recommended that a definitive development study be undertaken.
They specifically recommended that an infill drilling programme be carried out at both deposits to provide more grade information as well as geotechnical, geohydrological and geothermal data.
While several mining methods had been identified, these will be evaluated in more detail to ensure the best mining methods are applied to exploiting the orebody.
Economic analysis indicates the sensitivity of the project returns to grade.
The opportunity presented through accurately delineating high-grade payshoots will be pursued by the infill drilling programme.
The company commissioned SRK Consulting to lead a definitive underground development study on the project and this work has now started.
A multi-phase 30 000 metre drilling programme has been started at Yalea and Loulo 0 which is aimed at better delineating the high-grade payshoots.
The first phase comprising 12 000 metres of drilling has been completed as reported in the Exploration Review, and the orebody modelling has indicated a significant resource increase, most of it at depth and at significantly higher grade than previously modelled.
A budget of US$7 million has been approved for 2005.
TONGON PROJECT On-site activities remain suspended within the Cte dIvoire as a result of the political unrest within the country.
The company has maintained a presence there and is capable of recommencing activities without delay when it is safe to do so.
A standstill agreement with government exists in the form of a state of force majeure which will continue until the cessation of the current unrest.
A senior company delegation visited the country in the second half of the year.
The companys position is that before returning to active exploration it requires: A return to political stability with a political solution between the opposing parties: Security of personnel and equipment: and Functioning transport routes and full access to project areas.
PAGE TWENTY-NINE PAGE THIR TY Randgold Resources continues to maintain an office in the main city, Abidjan, and has redeployed senior technical staff to other projects in West Africa.
The prefeasibility study on Tongon was reviewed during the year and confirms the belief that it is a project with substantial value, that can be turned to account rapidly as soon as circumstances allow.
In the meantime, the project and evaluation team will update the study preparing for the start of the bankable feasibility study.
Project description The Tongon Project is located in northern Cte dIvoire, 628 kilometres north of Abidjan 2 within the 671km Nielle permit in central northern Cte dIvoire.
Randgold Resources has held the exploration permit since November 1996 and has undertaken several exploration campaigns.
A prefeasibility Type 2 study was completed in 2001.
An inferred resource of 34 million tonnes at 2.6g t for a total of 2.89 million ounces was used as the basis for the study and the following parameters applied as a base case: Strip ratio of 4:1 and cost of US$1.28 per tonne mined over the Life of Mine: Recoveries of 95% for oxides and 88% for sulphides: Life of Mine unit cost of approximately US$15 per tonne milled and US$190 per ounce cash cost: Total Life of Mine capital cost of US$85 million: Gold price of US$300 per ounce flat: Cte dIvoire royalty of 3% on gold sales: and Five year tax holiday.
A summary of the salient project features as described in the Type 2 study is given below.
Mineral resources The mineral resource estimate is based on 62 drill holes in the target area of which 35 are diamond drill holes for a total of 6 712 metres and 27 are reverse circulation holes for a total of 2 486 metres.
Mineralisation has been outlined to a depth of 120 metres below surface.
The resource calculated at a 0.5g t cut-off grade is listed below: TONGON PROJECT Mt Grade g t Moz Inferred northern zone 5.9 2.3 0.44 Inferred southern zone 28.1 2.7 2.45 Total 34.0 2.6 2.89 See comments and US disclaimer on page 87.
The drill spacing is still wide 50 - 100 metres in the southern zone and 150 - 300 metres in the northern zone and there is still considerable opportunity for further exploration both on extensions to existing ore zones and in identification of additional ore zones within the mineralised corridor see Exploration Review.
Mining Mining of the Tongon orebodies is envisaged to be by open-pit methods.
Preliminary pit optimisation has outlined the following potentially mineable resource: PAGE THIR TY-ONE TONGON MINEABLE RESOURCE Mt g t Moz Southern zone 20.45 2.98 1.96 A dilution factor of 5% has been applied to the above resource.
It is intended that contract mining will be employed.
More detailed drilling is required in order to bring the majority of the resource into measured and indicated categories.
Metallurgical Metallurgical testwork has been carried out on both the oxide and sulphide ores from the Tongon deposits with the objective of developing a low-cost gold recovery process.
The recovery assumed for the oxide material is 95% and for the sulphide 82%.
A 200 000 tonne per month recovery plant is envisaged for treating the more competent sulphides.
This plant will be designed to accommodate 240 000 tonnes per month of the softer oxides in the initial phase of exploitation.
Indications from the metallurgical testing completed to date are that acceptable recovery rates are possible from both the shallow weathered zones and the deeper unweathered zones.
Mineralogical investigations indicate that the gold in the deposits is generally fine-grained.
The gold in the shallower zones is recoverable by simple milling and CIL treatment, while the gold in the deeper zones is amenable to recovery by flotation and fine grinding of the concentrate followed by CIL extraction.
The conclusion of the prefeasibility Type 2 study was that the project looked sufficiently attractive and should be advanced to the next stage of feasibility studies SYAMA GOLD MINE - SOLD OPERATION In April 2003, the company entered into an option agreement with the Australian company Resolute Mining Limited on Randgold Resources interest in the Syama mine in Mali.
In terms of the agreement, Resolute Mining had 12 months to conduct a full due diligence on Syama.
On 5 April 2004, Resolute Mining exercised its option to buy the companys 80% interest in the Syama mine.
In terms of the option, Randgold Resources has received US$6 million and Resolute Mining has assumed responsibility for liabilities of US$7 million of which US$2.74 million were owing to Randgold Resources.
Randgold Resources will further receive a royalty of US$10 per ounce on the first million ounces of production from Syama and US$5 per ounce on the next three million ounces at a gold price of US$350 per ounce based on the attributable ounces acquired by Resolute Mining.
These monies are not included in the profit attributable to Syama since they are dependent upon the mine being put into production and the gold price being over US$350.
The company received net proceeds of US$8.6 million on the sale and made a profit of US$7.1 million.
