Remuneration Report 39 This report sets out the Companys executive remuneration policy and structure and details the remuneration received by the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2004, in compliance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Remuneration Committee The Board has overall responsibility for determining the framework of executive remuneration and its cost, and is required to take account of any recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has delegated to the Committee through formal terms of reference which are available on request in writing to the Company Secretary and on the Companys website, www.
com determination of the specific remuneration, benefits and employment packages for the Chairman, executive Directors and other senior executives.
The Remuneration Committee consists solely of independent non-executive Directors.
John Sunderland replaced Peter Jarvis as Chairman of the Committee in April 2004.
Peter Jarvis remains a member of the Committee, as does Oliver Stocken.
Richard Greenhalgh joined the Committee in July 2004.
Details of attendances at Committee meetings are contained in the report on Corporate Governance on page 47.
Alun Cathcart and Mike Smith normally attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee, as do Christine Ray Group Human Resources Director, Roger Fairhead Director of Group Compensation & Benefits and Charles Cormick Company Secretary, but they are not present at any discussion concerning their own remuneration.
Towers Perrin has been appointed by the Committee to advise it, and the Board, on remuneration issues, and New Bridge Street Consultants provide advice on share-based incentive arrangements for executives and the wider employee population.
Neither adviser provided any other services to the Company during 2004.
Christine Ray and Roger Fairhead assisted the Committee by preparing reports on remuneration and employment conditions within the Group: internal support is provided by Charles Cormick.
Remuneration policy a Executive Directors The Committee aims to ensure that the remuneration and incentive arrangements for executive Directors are market-competitive and support the interests of shareholders.
In practice, executive remuneration must reflect the competitive practices of the Companys principal competitors and the other businesses with which it competes for talent.
The Committee believes that a significant emphasis on variable remuneration linked to the performance of the Company, together with shareholding guidelines for the executive Directors, is the best way to incentivise and reward executives for the achievement of immediate and longer term strategic objectives of the Company.
It is not the Companys intention to pay more than is necessary, and the reward structure and potential size of awards are regularly reviewed by the Committee to ensure that they meet these objectives.
Excluding pension entitlements, the target value for each executive Directors remuneration and the shareholding guidelines are: Fixed Performance-related Base Annual Long term 21% salary bonus incentives Total Shareholding %%%% guidelines 53% Mike Smith 53 21 26 100 1.5 x base salary 26% Ian Dyson 53 21 26 100 1 x base salary In the table above, the target value for annual bonus has been calculated as the annual cash bonus payable for achieving all targets as described on page 40 i. e. 40% of base salary.
The target value for long term incentives is calculated as the estimated fair value of grants made under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme and Long Term Incentive Plan during 2004, consistent with the calculation methodology of International Financial Reporting Standard 2 Share-based Payments.
The calculated target values, expressed as a percentage of total remuneration, have changed from 2003, reflecting the lower levels of long term incentive awards granted to executive Directors in 2004.
The reward structure for around 30 senior executives below Board level is generally the same although the level of remuneration may differ.
The shareholding guidelines for all other Executive Committee members is 0.75 times base salary.
For 2005, the Committee does not foresee any major changes in policy, although the Committee will continue to review the level and structure of remuneration to ensure that it remains appropriate.
As more fully explained on page 40, the retesting of performance conditions under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme has been discontinued for all options granted in or after 2005.
The Companys long term incentive plan will expire in April 2005 and therefore a replacement plan, in essentially the same form as the current plan, will be proposed at the 2005 Annual General Meeting to ensure that long term incentives remain in place for Ranks senior management.
b Non-executive Directors The Chairman and the non-executive Directors receive fees only, and are not eligible to participate in any bonus plan, pension plan, share plan, or long term incentive plan of the Company.
The Chairman and the executive Directors determine the fees paid to the non-executive Directors.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman also receives an expense allowance of 10,000 towards his travel and communication expenses.
