Directors Report 37 The Directors submit their report and statement of accounts for 12 months notice.
Peter Jarvis will retire as a Director at the the year ended 31 December 2004. conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Principal activities and business review The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company, Rank is one of the UKs leading leisure and entertainment companies together with their remuneration and, where applicable, their and an international provider of services to the lm industry.
In 2004, service agreements, are detailed in the Remuneration Report.
leisure and entertainment activities included casinos and bingo clubs, Biographical details of the Directors are given on page 24. and Hard Rock Cafes and global rights to the Hard Rock brand.
Rank also owns lm processing and video and digital versatile disc DVD Human resources duplication and distribution facilities, branded Deluxe.
Rank operates The Company recognises that the contribution made by its primarily in the UK and North America, although it also has activities employees is crucial to the success of each of its businesses.
in continental Europe and other parts of the world.
Substantial investment is therefore made in the training, development and motivation of staff with particular attention to In August 2004, the Companys subsidiary, Deluxe Laboratories, Inc. ensuring customer satisfaction through the consistent achievement acquired the remaining 80% of EFILM not already controlled of high standards of service and delivery of quality products.
by the Group for a consideration of 18.2m.
Also in August 2004, the Companys subsidiary, Deluxe Media Services Inc. acquired the Employee involvement in the direction and objectives of the Softitler group of companies for a consideration of 9.8m, and DVCC business is encouraged through the use of incentive schemes for a consideration of 2.5m.
In September 2004, a determination to focus employees on the key performance indicators of was delivered regarding the Companys long-standing dispute each business.
In addition, communication and consultation with Serena Holdings Limited which resulted in the Company programmes exist at site, company and Group level.
paying an additional 10.2m for businesses acquired with the acquisition of Mecca Leisure Group plc in 1990, together with The Company believes it benefits substantially from having a interest thereon of 8.6m.
diverse workforce and therefore endorses the active application of equal opportunities policies and programmes to provide fair An analysis of turnover, profit, operating assets and net cash ow by and equitable conditions for all employees regardless of sex, business activity is given on pages 57 to 58.
The Groups continuing family status, religion, creed, colour, ethnic origin, age, disability activities and businesses are reported on in the Operating and or sexual orientation.
Financial Review on pages 26 to 36.
Health and safety Result and equity dividends The Board receives regular reports on health and safety matters.
The loss before tax for the year was 83.3m 2003 122.7m The Chief Executive has been nominated by the Board as the main profit.
The loss for the year after tax and minority interests was Board Director responsible for health and safety across the Group.
The loss for the year of 209.6m The Group requires each division to develop and implement 2003 4.3m has been transferred to reserves.
The 2003 figures its own safety policy, organisation and arrangements, to respond have been restated to reflect the adoption of Financial Reporting to its particular health and safety risks.
The Board also requires an Standard 17, Retirement Benefits.
annual report from each division on health and safety performance for the year.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 9.8p per Ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 4.8p already Environment declared, makes a total for the year of 14.6p per Ordinary share The Groups policy is to encourage respect for the environment 2003 13.9p.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, and Rank adopts an environmentally responsible attitude in the the final dividend will be paid on 6 May 2005 to those shareholders fulfilment of its business objectives.
Close attention is paid to whose names are on the register on 8 April 2005. energy and water conservation and recycling of waste material where economically practical.
Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on page 24 and all Corporate social responsibility of them were Directors of the Company throughout the year save The Companys risk assessment processes take account of the for Richard Greenhalgh, Brendan ONeill and David Boden who were significance of social environmental and ethical matters to the appointed Directors with effect from 1 July 2004, 1 October 2004 businesses of the Company.
Through these processes and the and 1 March 2005 respectively.
Richard Greenhalgh a member information thereby provided, the Board can identify and assess of the Remuneration Committee, Brendan ONeill a member of if there are any significant risks to the Companys short and long the Audit Committee and David Boden will retire at the Annual term value arising from social, environmental and ethical matters, General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for as well as opportunities to enhance value.
Richard Greenhalgh and Brendan ONeill do not have a service agreement with the Company but David Boden During 2004, the Group commissioned an independent review does, which is terminable on 12 months notice.
The Company by GoodCorporation of Gaming Divisions management practices is satisfied that each non-executive Director is able to devote regarding the communities and environment in which it operates, the amount of time required to attend to the Companys affairs.
and the treatment of its stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and employees.
This process is being extended to Hard Oliver Stocken current Chairman of the Audit Committee and Rock in 2005. a member of the Remuneration Committee and Mike Smith will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, and, being Share capital eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
Oliver Stocken Details of the new Ordinary shares issued pursuant to the exercise of does not have a service agreement with the Company: Mike Smith options under Ranks share option schemes are set out in note 23 has a service agreement with the Company, terminable on on page 73.
