40 Remuneration Report continued Fees paid to the non-executive Directors are aligned to reect the time commitment and responsibility associated with each role.
30% of the net base fees after tax paid to the non-executive Directors are used to purchase Ordinary shares in the Company on a quarterly basis.
These shares must be retained throughout service.
The fees paid to each non-executive Director during 2004 and their base fees with effect from 1 January 2005 including the part used to purchase shares are disclosed in the Directors remuneration summary on page 44.
Remuneration structure a Base salary and benets Base salaries are reviewed annually with effect from 1 January, taking into account individual performance, and are paid at a market competitive level.
The Committee receives comparator group information comprising the Companys principal competitors and other companies of similar size and complexity in the FTSE-350 compiled by independent remuneration consultants, with a view to maintaining base salary at the mid-market level.
The Committee is also guided by salary levels of other executives and across the organisation as a whole.
With effect from 1 January 2005, Mike Smith and Ian Dyson received a 2.9% increase in base salary as disclosed in the Directors remuneration summary on page 44.
Benefits are provided in line with normal market practice, and include a car allowance, and health, disability and life insurance.
b Annual cash bonus The annual cash bonus for executive Directors and senior executives is aligned to the achievement of various business strategy objectives expressed as financial targets for the year.
For executive Directors and the most senior executives below Board level, the annual cash bonus for achieving these targets is 40% of base salary, with a maximum bonus equal to 80% of base salary for significantly exceeding each target.
For 2004, operating profit targets accounting for three-quarters of any bonus plus a secondary performance measure accounting for one-quarter of any bonus were used.
The secondary performance measures are specific to each division and relate to quantifiable targets for cashflow, cost reduction and turnover.
The annual cash bonus for the executive Directors was 21% of base salary, commensurate with only some of the financial targets being achieved, as disclosed in the Directors remuneration summary on page 44. c Long term incentives The Company operates a Save As You Earn SAYE option scheme in which all UK employees can participate.
Participants save a fixed amount of up to 250 per month for three or five years and are then able to use these savings to buy shares in the Company at a price fixed at a 20% discount to the market value at the start of the savings period.
In line with market practice, the exercise of these options is not subject to any performance condition.
The executive Directors and selected senior executives also participate in an Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP designed to retain management and reward longer term performance of three years or more.
In 2004, 205 2003 179 executives received grants under the ESOS and 33 2003 35 received conditional awards under the LTIP.
The level of awards granted to executive Directors and selected senior executives is determined by the Remuneration Committee each year, taking into account the market competitive situation, share dilution limits and Company performance.
Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS The executive Directors and selected senior executives are granted options to purchase shares in the Company at a price fixed at market value at the date of grant.
For grants over shares with a total exercise price of up to one times basic salary, options will only vest if there is an average increase in normalised earnings per share EPS of at least 3% per annum above the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index RPI over a three year period.
For grants up to twice basic salary, the criteria is real EPS growth of 5% per annum: and for grants up to three times basic salary, the criteria is real EPS growth of 7% per annum.
The maximum grant permitted under the scheme is three times basic salary.
The executive Directors were also granted options at the time of their recruitment in 1999, with a performance condition of real EPS growth of at least 2% per annum over a three year period.
For options granted before 2005, if the EPS condition is not met at the end of the three year performance period, the performance period may be extended for one further year, measuring EPS growth from the original base year.
If this condition is not met at the end of the fourth year, the options will lapse.
For options granted in or after 2005, this retesting provision has been discontinued, and if the EPS condition is not met at the end of the three year performance period, the options will lapse.
In reaching this decision, the Committee took account of the views of its shareholders, the Association of British Insurers, and the National Association of Pension Funds.
EPS was determined by the Committee to be the appropriate criterion given its clear linkage with shareholder value.
With the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards from 2005, the Committee will satisfy itself that EPS is consistently measured over a performance period by calculating EPS for the base period and at the end of the performance period using consistent accounting standards.
