SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Annual General Meeting Company Secretary Solicitors To be held on Thursday, 5 May 2005 at the Elizabeth Richardson Slaughter and May Marriott London Heathrow Hotel, Bath Road, Registered Office Registrar and transfer office Hayes, Middlesex, UB3 5AN.
Every shareholder 103-105 Bath Road If you have any queries about your shareholding, is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH please write to, or telephone, the Companys The notice convening the meeting is contained Telephone: 01753 217800 Registrar at the following address: in a separate document for shareholders.
Facsimile: 01753 217899 Computershare Investor Services PLC, Final dividend for the year ended PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Registered in England 31 December 2004 Bristol BS99 7NH No.
527217 To be paid if approved on 26 May 2005 to Dedicated Reckitt Benckiser shareholder helpline shareholders on the register on 4 March 2005.
com  LLP Key dates Announcement of quarter 1 results 26 April 2005 Annual General Meeting 5 May 2005 Payment of final ordinary dividend 26 May 2005 Payment of half-yearly preference dividend 1 July 2005 Announcement of interim results 25 July 2005 Payment of interim ordinary dividend September 2005 Announcement of quarter 3 results 25 October 2005 Payment of half-yearly preference dividend 1 January 2006 Preliminary announcement of 2005 results February 2006 Publication of 2005 Annual Report & Accounts April 2006 Annual General Meeting May 2006 64 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Our brands, our business Geographic contribution Surface Care Fabric Care Dishwashing Home Care Health & Personal Care Reckitt Benckiser has truly global reach which creates opportunities both for globalising our major initiatives and for building global brands while reducing specific market risk.
20 28 14 15 15 Net revenue % Net revenue % Net revenue % Net revenue % Net revenue % Net revenues Operating profit Operating margin change at constant exchange rates change at constant exchange rates change basis points bps 2004 m 2004 m 2004 m 2004 m 2004 m Net revenues 773 Net revenues 1064 Net revenues 542 Net revenues 564 Net revenues 599 Europe 8% 2,032m 11% 464m 50bps Profile of category Profile of category Profile of category Profile of category Profile of category Five product groups.
This category consists of five Products used in automatic Air Care products freshen Products that relieve or solve North America Disinfectant cleaners both product groups used for dishwashing machines.
or add fragrance to the air in common personal or health and Australia 9% 1,196m 16% 244m 130bps clean and disinfect surfaces, cleaning and treating all fabrics.
The main product is detergent a growing range of formats problems, protecting against killing 99.9% of germs.
It covers products used before, for cleaning dishes in the main including aerosols, gels, infection and improving Lavatory cleaners offer during or after the main laundry wash cycle and sold in an liquids, electricals and wellbeing.
Antiseptics kill Developing specialised cleaning and wash cycle.
Fabric Treatment increasing range of formats: candles.
Used in more and germs and prevent infection.
Markets 16% 643m 76% 44m 240bps disinfecting for the toilet products remove stains from powder, liquid, gels standard more domestic situations, Depilatories remove unwanted bowl and cistern.
All purpose clothes, carpets and upholstery.
and 2in1, gelcaps standard not only for freshening or body hair with creams and cleaners are ideal for many They are sold as pre-soakers, and 2in1 and tabs Double fragrance, but increasingly waxes.
Denture Care cleans household surfaces, pre-treaters, in-wash boosters Action, PowerBall, 2in1 to create ambience.
and improves the performance particularly in the bathroom and carpet upholstery cleaners and 3in1.
Our range of Pest Control products offer and kitchen.
Specialty in a selection of forms including include rinse agents, over-the-counter health solutions to domestic cleaners are designed for liquids, gels, tablets and sprays.
decalcifying salts, dishwasher products includes analgesics infestation, minimising the specic tasks from cleaning Garment Care products are cleaners, deodorisers and glass for pain relief and treatments threat of disease by insects ovens to removing limescale.
specially formulated for corrosion protectors.
for colds and flu, sore throats and pests.
The category Global operations Finally, polishes and waxes washing delicate fabrics.
Water and coughs and gastroKey brands includes rodenticide and clean and shine hard surfaces Softeners protect the machine intestinal products for Calgonit, Finish, Electrasol, insecticide products in Reckitt Benckiser sells its products in some 180 countries and has operations in 60 countries.
such as furniture and floors.
and laundry against the buildheartburn and constipation.
formats such as coils, mats, up of limescale and other Suboxone Buprenorphine is Contact details for individual countries can be found on our website at www.
com Key brands baits, traps, vapourisers and Market position deposits.
Fabric Softeners come the Companys prescription Disinfectant Lysol, Dettol, sprays to prevent infestation Number one worldwide in in liquids or sheets for softening drug against opiate Sagrotan, Pine-O-Cleen and to kill pests.
Lavatory Harpic, Lysol Key brands aids help make ironing more All Purpose Veja, St Marc, Key brands Air Care Air Wick convenient and nally Laundry Cillit Bang, Easy-Off Bang Antiseptics Dettol Pest Control d-Con, Mortein, Detergents clean clothes in the Specialty Easy-Off Oven, Depilatories Veet Shieldtox, Target, Rodasol, main wash. Mop & Glo, Brasso, Denture Care Kukident, Pif Paf, Tiga Roda Lime-A-Way, Destop, Rid-X Key brands Steradent Shoe Care Nugget, Cherry Polishes & Waxes Poliflor, Old Fabric Treatment Vanish, Analgesics cold flu Disprin, Blossom English, OCedar, Mr Sheen Spray n Wash, Resolve, Lemsip Market position Napisan Gastro-Intestinals Gaviscon, Market position Number two worldwide in Garment Care Woolite Senokot, Fybogel Number one worldwide in Air Care, Shoe Care and Pest Water Softener Calgon disinfectant cleaning and Market position Control.
Fabric Softener Quanto, Flor lavatory cleaning.
Dettol is the world leader in Laundry Detergent Ava, Sole antiseptics bought for use at Colon, Dosia home.
Veet is the world leader Market position in depilatories.
Number one worldwide in Fabric Treatment and Water Softener categories.
Designed and produced by The Workroom www.
co. uk Photography by Tim Barker, Peter Beavis and Duncan Smith.
The paper used throughout this report is produced from Totally Chlorine Free TCF pulps.
The wood for these is sourced from You can nd our brands websites from the brands homepage www.
cfm fully sustainable forests in Finland, Sweden, Portugal, Spain and Brazil.
The manufacturing mill is certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental Management system standard and registered with EMAS the EU Environmental Management and Audit System.
The recyclable outer wrapping used is manufactured using totally degradable polythene.
