ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting convention The currencies that most influence these translations and the relevant The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and exchange rates are: 2004 2003 in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Average rates: Euro 1.4730 1.4441 There is no material difference between the result disclosed in the US Dollar 1.8330 1.6354 profit and loss account and the result on an unmodified historical Closing rates: cost basis and therefore a note of historical cost profits and losses Euro 1.4152 1.4194 is not included in these accounts.
US Dollar 1.9181 1.7833 Basis of consolidation The accounts of the Group represent the consolidation of Reckitt Net revenues Benckiser plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
The accounts of Net revenues are defined as the amount invoiced to external customers subsidiary undertakings which do not conform with Group policies during the year, that is gross sales net of trade discounts, customer are adjusted on consolidation in order that the Group accounts may allowances and consumer coupons, and exclusive of VAT and other be presented on a consistent basis.
In the case of acquisitions and sales-related taxes.
Net revenues are recognised at the time that disposals of businesses, the results of trading are consolidated from the risks and rewards of ownership of the products are substantially or to the date upon which control passes.
The results and net assets of the Groups subsidiary in Zimbabwe Pension commitments have been excluded from the consolidated Group results with effect The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members from 1 July 2002, on the basis that severe long-term restrictions exist of defined contribution schemes is charged to the profit and loss that hinder the exercise of the Groups rights over the assets employed, account as contributions are made.
in particular the remittance of funds.
Results for 2003 and 2004, and For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is charged the balance sheets as at 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2004, to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis, so as to spread were insignificant.
the cost over the average service lives of the employees in the schemes.
Adoption of new accounting policies and requirements Actuarial surpluses and deficits arising are allocated over the average The transitional rules of FRS 17 Retirement benefits require certain expected remaining service lives of current employees.
Differences disclosures to be made in these accounts see note 4. between the amounts charged in the profit and loss account and The Group has presented disclosures under International Financial payments made to pension schemes are treated as assets or liabilities.
Reporting Standard 2 Share-based Payment regarding the potential Post-retirement benefits other than pensions impact on the Groups results had it been adopted in 2004 see The cost of providing post-retirement benefits other than pensions note 4. is determined on a consistent actuarial basis and charged to the profit International Financial Reporting Standards and loss account.
To the extent that such costs do not equate to the The Group will adopt IFRS for its financial reporting from 1 January cash contribution, a provision or prepayment is constituted in the 2005.
As noted in the Report of the Directors, the impact of balance sheet.
adopting IFRS is expected to have a minor effect on the Groups Research and development financial results, reducing profit for the year net income by Research and development expenditure is written off in the year around 1.5%.
Foreign currency translation Stocks Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange on the day the transaction occurs or at the contracted Stocks are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
Cost comprises materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion of overhead expenses.
Assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, Taxation at a forward contract rate.
Exchange differences arising in the accounts The tax charge is based on the profit for the period and takes into of individual undertakings are included in the profit and loss account account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the except that, where foreign currency borrowing has been used to treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
finance equity investments in foreign currencies, exchange differences Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets arising on the borrowing are dealt with through reserves to the extent are recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
that they are covered by exchange differences arising on the net assets represented by the equity investments.
The accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into Sterling on the following basis: Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year end date.
Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of accounts into Sterling are recorded as movements on reserves.
The accounts of subsidiaries operating in hyper-inflationary environments are adjusted to reflect current price levels before being translated into Sterling.
34 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Intangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes An acquired brand is only recognised on the balance sheet as an in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not intangible asset where it is supported by a registered trade mark, be appropriate.
is established in the marketplace, brand earnings are separately Fixed asset investments are valued at cost.
identifiable, the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the business and where the brand achieves earnings in excess of those Operating leases achieved by unbranded products.
The value of an acquired brand is Operating lease rentals are charged against profit on a straight line determined by allocating the purchase consideration of an acquired basis over the period of the lease.
business between the underlying fair values of the tangible assets, Derivatives goodwill and brands acquired.
The Group primarily uses forward rate agreements and forward Brands are not amortised, as it is considered that their useful economic foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to fluctuating lives are not limited.
This policy is appropriate due to the stable longinterest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are accounted term nature of the business and the enduring nature of the brands.
for as hedges when designated as such at the inception of the A core element of the Groups strategy is to invest in building its contract.
Termination payments made or received in respect brands through an ongoing programme of product innovation and of derivatives are taken to the profit and loss account over a sustained and rising marketing, particularly media, investment.
period appropriate to the derivative and the underlying instrument.
Within Reckitt Benckiser, a brand typically comprises an assortment Gains and losses on forward rate agreements are offset against the of base products and more innovative products.
Both contribute to interest income and expense arising from hedged financial assets the enduring nature of the brand.
The base products establish the and liabilities.
In all cases, the instruments are used to hedge future long term positioning of the brand while a succession of innovations transactions, with gains and losses being deferred until the attracts ongoing consumer interest and attention.
The brand carrying values are reviewed annually by the Directors Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are offset has been any permanent impairment to determine whether there against the foreign exchange gains and losses on hedged financial in value and any such reductions in their values are taken to the profit assets and liabilities.
Where the instrument is used to hedge and loss account.
The impairment review involves a comparison of against future transactions, gains and losses are deferred until the book amount with the higher of the net realisable value and the transaction occurs.
The value in use is measured with reference Employee share schemes to discounted cash flows based on future revenue and margin Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under projections.
The discount rate used in the 2004 brand impairment cost of capital share option and restricted share schemes.
Any shortfall between review was based on the Groups weighted average including, where appropriate, an adjustment for the risks associated the cost to the employee and the fair market value of the shares with the relevant market.
at date of grant is charged to the profit and loss account over the period to which the performance criteria relate, with the credit taken In accordance with FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, as from directly to the profit and loss reserve.
Additional employer costs 4 January 1998, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and in respect of options and awards are charged to the profit and loss amortised on a straight line basis over periods not exceeding 20 years account over the same period with the credit included in creditors.
in line with the Directors view of their useful economic lives.
Goodwill Where awards are contingent upon future events other than continued written off to reserves prior to this date has not been reinstated.
employment an assessment of the likelihood of these conditions being Payments made in respect of product registration and distribution achieved is made at the end of each reporting period and reflected rights are capitalised where the rights comply with the above in the accounting entries made.
Further disclosures are provided requirements for recognition of acquired brands, and amortised in note 4. over the expected period of depletion.
The profit or loss arising on the disposal of businesses acquired is recognised in the accounts after taking into account any goodwill arising on acquisition which has not been previously written off in the profit and loss account.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Except for freehold land, the cost of properties, plant and equipment is written off on a straight line basis over the period of the expected useful life of the asset.
For this purpose, expected lives are determined within the following limits: Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life of the lease: and Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years.
In general, production plant and equipment and office equipment are written off over ten years or less: motor vehicles and computer equipment over five years or less.
Leased plant and equipment: assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in tangible fixed assets at fair value.
Each asset is depreciated on the same basis as owned plant and equipment or over the life of the lease, if shorter.
Obligations related to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate within creditors.
