NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the annual general meeting of Redrow plc defined in section 80 of the said Act up to an aggregate nominal will be held at St David's Park Hotel, St. David's Park, Flintshire on amount of 5,546,061 provided that this authority shall unless Wednesday 3 November 2004 at 12 noon for the following purposes.
previously revoked or renewed expire as the date of the next annual All resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions except general meeting of the Company but so that the Company may, numbers 10 and 11 which will be proposed as special resolutions.
before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Ordinary business directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or Resolution 1 - Annual Report and Accounts agreement as if the authority had not expired.
To receive and adopt the directors report and the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2004, together with the auditors report.
Resolution 10 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights That, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 as set out in the Notice Resolution 2 - Dividend convening the annual general meeting at which this resolution is to To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2004. be considered and in place of any existing authority given pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, the directors be given power Resolution 3 - Re-appointment of director pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to make To re-appoint Paul Louis Pedley as a director.
allotments of equity securities as defined in section 94 of the said Act pursuant to the authority contained in the said Resolution 9 and Resolution 4 - Re-appointment of director to sell shares which are held in treasury wholly for cash as if section To re-appoint John Frederick Tutte as a director.
89 1 of the said Act did not apply to such allotments or sale provided that this power shall be limited to: Resolution 5 - Re-appointment of director To re-appoint James Martin as a director.
i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, being an offer of equity securities by way of rights to ordinary Resolution 6 - Re-appointment of director shareholders of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be To re-appoint Malcolm James Geoffrey King as a director.
to their holdings subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to Resolution 7 - Re-appointment of auditors fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the To re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the laws of or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or Company, to hold office until the end of the next general meeting at stock exchange in any territory: and which financial statements are laid before the Company and to ii any other allotments for cash or equity securities or sale of shares authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
held in treasury up to a maximum nominal amount of 794,344 and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the Special business date which is the earlier of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 2 February 2006 save that the said power shall Resolution 8 - Remuneration report permit the Company to make an offer or enter into an agreement To approve the remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2004. before the expiry of such power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors Resolution 9 - Authority to allot shares may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement That the directors, in place of any existing authority conferred upon as if such power conferred had not expired.
them for the purpose of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, be generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 80 of the Resolution 11 - Authority to purchase own shares Companies Act 1985 to exercise all powers of the Company to allot That, pursuant to Article 11 of the Companys Articles of and to make offers or agreements to allot relevant securities as Association, the Company is generally and unconditionally 72 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 75 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act necessary to obtain the approval of the Board of the Inland Revenue, 1985, to make market purchases within the meaning of section and or to take account of the requirements of the UK Listing 163 3 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of Authority and best practice, and that the directors be authorised to do the Company ordinary shares, and that where such shares are held all acts and things necessary and expedient to adopt and operate it.
in treasury, the Company may use them for the purposes of its employees share schemes, provided that: 13 September 2004 By order of the Board a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be Registered office: purchases is 15,886,870: Redrow House Graham A Cope b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is St. Davids Park Company Secretary 10p exclusive of expenses payable by the Company: Flintshire c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an CH5 3RX amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market Registered in England No.
2877315 quotations for an ordinary share derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days Notes: immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is i A shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy purchased exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A d the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next proxy need not be a member of the Company.
annual general meeting of the Company or 2 February 2006 A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be whichever may be the earlier except that the Company may completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein before such expiry make a contract to purchase its own shares and returned so as to reach the Companys Registrars not later which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after than 48 hours before the time of the meeting or any adjourned such expiry.
Completion of a form of proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending and voting at the meeting in person Resolution 12 - The Redrow plc Long-Term Share Incentive if they so wish.
Plan 2004 ii All shareholders on the Register at 6pm on 1 November 2004 That the rules of the Redrow plc Long-Term Share Incentive Plan and only those shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at 2004, the principal features of which are summarised in the the annual general meeting in respect of the number of shares explanatory note to this resolution, and a copy of which is produced registered in their respective names at that time.
Changes to in draft to this meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the entries on the Register after that time will be disregarded in purposes of identification, be approved and the directors be authorised determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the to do all acts and things necessary and expedient to adopt and operate meeting.
it, including making such modifications as the directors consider iii There will be available for inspection at the registered office appropriate to take account of the requirements of the UK Listing during normal business hours on any business day and at the Authority and best practice.
place of the annual general meeting for at least 15 minutes before the meeting is held until its conclusion: Resolution 13 - The Redrow plc Sharesave Plan 2004 a a copy of the rules of the Redrow plc Long-Term Share That the rules of the Redrow plc Sharesave Plan 2004, the principal Incentive Plan 2004 and the Redrow plc Sharesave Plan features of which are summarised in the explanatory note to this 2004, and resolution, and a copy of which is produced in draft to this meeting b copies of the directors service contracts and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be approved, subject to such modifications as the directors may consider 76 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The documents referred to in paragraph a above will also be Resolution 9 - Authority to allot shares available for inspection during normal business hours on any business Shareholders are being invited to renew the authority given to day until the conclusion of the annual general meeting at the offices directors in previous years to allot unissued shares.
If passed, of Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
resolution 9 would renew this authority by authorising the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,546,061. iv The register of directors interests in the share capital of the The authority will expire on the date of the next annual general Company will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting of the Company.
This represents 55,460,610 ordinary shares meeting from 12 noon on 3 November 2004 until the conclusion of 10p each and is equivalent to approximately 35% of the Company's of the meeting.
None of the directors has a service contract current issued ordinary share capital.
which cannot be terminated within one year without payment of compensation.
Resolution 10 - Authority to disapply pre-emption rights v If you have any questions about the meeting or need any special The directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are not assistance at the meeting, please contact the Company Secretary already shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so by the at the registered office or telephone 01244 520044 during normal shareholders in a general meeting.
This resolution renews authority business hours.
for the directors to allot shares for cash without first offering them to existing members up to an aggregate nominal amount of 794,344.
Explanatory notes to Annual General Meeting resolutions: This sum represents 7,943,435 ordinary shares of 10p each, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the Companys current issued Resolution 2 - Dividend share capital.
The resolution also enables the directors to modify the Subject to approval at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 19 strict requirements for a rights issue in circumstances where they November 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business consider it necessary or expedient.
In addition, if the Company has purchased its own shares and holds Resolution 3-6 - Re-appointment of directors them in treasury, this resolution would give the directors power to sell The Companys articles of association require that each director shall these shares for cash to persons other than existing shareholders, retire from office at the third annual general meeting after the annual subject to the same limit that would apply to issues of shares for cash general meeting at which he was last elected or, in the case of a new to these persons.
director, to seek re-election at the first annual general meeting following appointment.
The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting or 2 February 2006.
Resolution 7 - Re-appointment of auditors The Company is required to appoint auditors at every general meeting Resolution 11 - Authority to purchase own shares at which the accounts are presented to shareholders.
The directors are seeking authority as in previous years, to make  LLP were appointed at last years annual market purchases of the Companys shares.
general meeting and are willing to seek re-appointment this year.
It is normal practice for a Companys directors to be authorised to agree The proposed authority would be limited by the terms of the special the auditors fees.
If this resolution is passed, the Audit Committee resolution to the purchases of 15,886,870 shares, an aggregate will approve the fees for recommendation to the Board.
nominal value of 1,588,687, which is equivalent to 10% of the Resolution 8 - Remuneration report Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2004.
Under the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 companies are required to ask shareholders to vote on the Remuneration report.
The report is contained on pages 41 to 50 of the Report and Accounts.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 77 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING In the past, such shares would have been cancelled immediately.
Resolutions 12 and 13 - The Redrow plc Long-Term Share However, The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Incentive Plan 2004 and the Redrow plc Sharesave Plan 2004 Shares Regulations 2003 which came into effect on 1 December The principal terms of the Redrow plc Long-Term Share Incentive 2003 allows companies to hold shares acquired by way of market Plan 2004 the LTSIP and the Redrow plc Sharesave Plan 2004 purchase as treasury stock, rather than having to cancel them.
Such the Sharesave Plan are summarised below.
Details of the first shares can subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used pursuant to operation of the LTSIP are set out in the Remuneration report which the Companys employee share schemes.
is contained in pages 41 to 50 of the Report and Accounts.
LTSIP The ability to hold in treasury shares that the Company purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution would give the Operation Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and costThe LTSIP will be operated by the Board or a duly authorised effectively, and would provide the Company with additional flexibility committee of the Board.
The operation of the LTSIP in respect of in the management of its capital base.
Shareholders should note that executive directors of the Company will be supervised by the this resolution explicitly authorises the Company to use any shares Remuneration Committee, which consists entirely of independent purchased and held in treasury for the purposes of the Companys Non-Executive Directors.
If any shares were used in this way, the Company would take them into account when calculating the share Eligibility issuing limits in the schemes, as long as required under the Guidelines Employees and Executive Directors of the Company and its of the Association of British Insurers.
subsidiaries are eligible to participate, provided they are not within 6 months of retirement and, in the case of Executive Directors, Details of any shares purchased pursuant to the proposed authority provided they devote substantially the whole of their working time to would be notified to the London Stock Exchange by 7.30am on the their duties.
In the case of Executive Directors, the Remuneration business day following the purchase and to the Registrar of Committee will decide who will be granted options and the number Companies within 28 days.
Details would also be included in the of shares under each option.
Companys annual Report and Accounts in respect of the financial period in which any such purchases take place.
Options Under the LTSIP, selected eligible employees will be granted an The authority set out in the special resolution will expire on option over the Companys ordinary shares.
No payment or only whichever is the earlier of the end of next annual general meeting or nominal payment will be required from optionholders in order to 2 February 2006 and the resolution specifies the maximum and exercise the option.
The exercise of the option will be subject to the minimum prices at which the shares may be bought.
Other optionholder remaining in employment and the satisfaction of investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall performance conditions over the performance period.
financial position of the Company will be taken into account before deciding upon the course of action.
Performance conditions The exercise of options will be subject to the satisfaction of The directors would exercise this authority only if they felt it would challenging performance conditions agreed by the Remuneration be in the best interests of the Company to do so and would increase Committee when the options are granted.
The proposed performance earnings per share.
To the extent that any such shares were held in conditions for the first operation of the LTSIP are described in the treasury, earnings per share would only be increased on a temporary Remuneration report which is contained in pages 41 to 50 of the basis, until the shares were transferred out of treasury.
78 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance Source of shares conditions in limited circumstances, to take account of events which Although the LTSIP allows for the grant of options over new shares may happen during the performance period.
and treasury shares, it is currently intended that existing shares from an employee benefit trust will be used to satisfy option exercises.
Individual limits In each financial year, the aggregate value at the time of grant of Sharesave Plan shares granted under option to any eligible employee under the LTSIP will not exceed 125% of his base salary for the preceding financial General year.
For the first operation of the LTSIP, the intention is to grant The Sharesave Plan has been drafted to comply with the relevant UK options over shares valued at 100% of the eligible employees base tax legislation so that options granted under it will attract favourable salary as described in the Remuneration report.
Under the Sharesave Plan, employees are granted an option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company, in the future, at Exercise of options a price determined at the time invitations to join the Sharesave Plan Options will normally be exercisable between three and ten years after are sent to employees or other specified date.
The option price may grant, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions and be set at a discount to market value at that time.
Employees are provided that the optionholder remains in employment.
required to save monthly through a contractual savings arrangement over a period of either three or five years.
At the end of the savings Options will be exercisable where an optionholder leaves employment contract the employee may either exercise the option using the due to ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or where savings contributions and interest or an equivalent amount or have the company or business for which he works leaves the group.
Options the savings and accrued interest repaid.
In the case of a five year may also be exercised following the death of an optionholder.
In all contract, the employee can elect to leave the savings in the account these cases, the number of shares over which an option may be for a further two years, but then will not be able to exercise the exercised will depend on the extent to which the performance option.
conditions have been satisfied and will be pro-rated to reflect the number of complete financial years of the performance period that Eligibility have elapsed.
The period for exercise is six months from the date of All UK based employees and full-time directors of the Company and leaving or, in the case of death, the shorter of two years from the date any participating subsidiary may participate in the Sharesave Plan.
of death and six months from grant of representation.
However, the directors may set a qualifying period of continuous employment not exceeding five years for eligibility.
When the Change of control, merger or other reorganisations Sharesave Plan is operated, all eligible employees must be invited to Options may generally be exercised on a takeover, scheme of participate.
arrangement, merger or other corporate reorganisation.
Unless the Remuneration Committee decide otherwise, options may only be Employee contributions exercised to the extent that the performance conditions have been The maximum amount an employee may save monthly over the satisfied and will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the original three-year or five-year period is the maximum allowed under an performance period that has elapsed.
Alternatively, optionholders may Inland Revenue approved savings-related share option plan, which is be allowed or required to exchange their options for options over currently 250 per month.
The minimum amount which may be shares in the acquiring company.
The Remuneration Committee can saved is currently 5 per month.
decide to apply performance conditions to any options which are exchanged.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 79 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Option price Operation The directors set the option price, which must be not manifestly less Except in exceptional circumstances, the Plans will only be operated than 80 per cent of the market value of a share on the second business within 42 days after the announcement of the Companys results for day preceding the date of invitation or other specified date or the any period.
However, the initial operation of the Sharesave Plan is average market value over the four business days preceding that intended to be as soon as practicable after approval by shareholders second business day.
Exercise of options Issue of shares Options can normally only be exercised for six months starting either Any shares issued under the Plans will rank equally with shares of the three or five years after the start of the savings contract.
Options may, same class in issue on that date of allotment, except in respect of however, be exercised early in certain circumstances.
rights arising by reference to a prior record date.
These include an employee leaving due to injury, disability, Variation in share capital redundancy or retirement or following the sale of his employing Options may be adjusted following certain variations in share capital company or business.
On cessation of employment for any other including a capitalisation or rights issue, subdivision, consolidation or reason, options will normally lapse.
Change of control, merger or other reorganisations Amendments Options may generally be exercised early on a takeover, scheme of Provisions relating to the eligibility, individual and dilution limits, arrangement, merger or other corporate reorganisation.
Alternatively, option price, rights attaching to options and shares, adjustment of optionholders may be allowed or, in certain circumstances, required to options in the event of a variation in share capital, and the exchange their options for options over shares in the acquiring amendment powers cannot be altered to the advantage of company.
optionholders without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
However, no such approval is required for minor changes Features common to both Plans intended to benefit the administration of the Plans, or to comply with Summarised below are the features which are common to both the or take account of existing or proposed legislation or any changes in LTSIP and the Sharesave Plan together, the Plans.
legislation, or to secure favourable tax treatment for the Company, members of its group or optionholders.
Alterations to the Sharesave Dilution limits Plan are generally subject to the prior approval of the Inland In any 10 year period, not more than 10 per cent of the issued Revenue.
In the case of the LTSIP, the directors may establish further ordinary share capital of the Company may be issued or issuable under plans based on the LTSIP, but modified to take account of overseas the Plans and all other employees share plans operated by the securities laws, exchange controls or tax legislation.
In addition, under the LTSIP, in any 10 year period, not more than 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Termination Company may be issued or issuable under the LTSIP and all other The Plans may be terminated by the directors at any time and in any discretionary share plans adopted by the Company.
These limits do event no options may be granted after the tenth anniversary of the not include options which have lapsed or been surrendered.
approval of the Plans by shareholders.
Options may also be satisfied using treasury shares.
If such shares are General used, the Company will, so long as required under the guidelines of Options granted under the Plans are not transferable and benefits the Association of British Insurers, count them towards the dilution under the Plans are not pensionable.
80 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
