ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with disposal.
On the acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are Companies Act 1985 and applicable Accounting Standards in the attributed to the net assets acquired.
Prior to the United Kingdom.
A summary of the more important accounting introduction for the year ended June 1998 onwards of policies is set out below: FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, the difference between the consideration paid and these values was Changes in accounting policies transferred to reserves.
Since the introduction of FRS 10, The Group has adopted UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP the difference is capitalised and amortised.
Trusts in the financial statements which also amended UITF Abstract c Turnover and profit recognition 17 Employee Share Schemes.
The adoption of these abstracts Turnover represents sales of residential housing and represent a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures commercial developments and is recognised on legal completion.
As a result of the requirements of UITF Abstract 38, shares in the Company held through Group controlled Profit is recognised on legal completion.
employee share trust schemes are now shown as a deduction in equity d Interest on borrowings shareholders funds having previously been shown in fixed asset Interest is written off when incurred.
e Fixed assets Amounts expensed in the period in respect of the Long Term Share 1 Freehold properties are included at cost or valuation Incentive Plan, having previously been credited to net assets are now as permitted under the transitional provisions of credited to equity shareholders funds.
The comparative figures have FRS 15.
The freehold land element is not depreciated been amended to reflect the change in treatment.
At 1 July 2003, the whilst the buildings element is depreciated on a straight net adjustment in respect of these changes was to increase equity line basis at an annual rate of 2%.
This adjustment has had no impact on the profit and loss account.
2 All other tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
They are depreciated on a straight line basis a Basis of accounting over their expected useful lives at the following principal The financial statements have been prepared under the annual rates: historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of the investment in subsidiary companies.
Fixtures and fittings 20%-35% In accordance with FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets Plant and machinery 20% revaluations of freehold properties will not be undertaken but, as permitted under the transitional rules, the Group 3 The investment in subsidiary companies represents the will continue to carry certain freehold properties at their book value of the underlying net assets, the surplus or existing revaluations less accumulated depreciation.
deficit arising on the revaluation being transferred to non-distributable reserves.
This basis of valuation b Basis of preparation and consolidation has been adopted so as to present more fairly the The Group financial statements incorporate the financial investment by the Company in these companies.
statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the results for the year ended f Stocks and work in progress 30 June 2004 and share of assets and liabilities of joint Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost ventures restated to comply with the Groups accounting and net realisable value less cash on account.
and associated acquisition costs, materials, labour and sub-contract work.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included from or up to the date of acquisition or ACCOUNTING POLICIES 55 ACCOUNTING POLICIES g Forward land k Treasury instruments Expenditure relating to forward land, including options, Hedge accounting principles are applied to these fees etc.
is provided for when incurred.
After exercise of an instruments and the gains and losses are recognised in option and acquisition of the land following the securing of the profit and loss account within interest cost in the planning permission, the provisions relating to that land are period to which they relate.
h Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided on timing differences arising from the recognition of income and expenditure in different periods for taxation and accounting purposes where timing differences have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted.
i Pension scheme The Group operates a contributory pension scheme for all its staff.
The Scheme comprises two sections: a defined benefits section and a defined contribution section.
The Scheme is externally invested and the funds of the Scheme are administered by trustees.
The Groups contributions to the defined benefits section, which are made in accordance with the recommendations of independent actuaries, are charged against profits in accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No.
Contributions to the defined contribution section are charged in the year in which the contributions are made.
Further disclosures including those required under FRS 17 transitional rules are contained within Note 7 to the financial statements.
j Operating leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged against profit on a straight line basis over the lease term.
