Notice of meeting 37 37 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 31st annual general 8.
To transact any other business of an annual meeting of the Company will be held at New Mills, Wottongeneral meeting.
under-Edge, Gloucestershire, GL12 8JR on Friday 15th October 2004 at noon to transact the following business:- By order of the Board New Mills A C G Roberts FCA Wotton-under-Edge Secretary Gloucestershire 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and GL12 8JR auditors and the financial statements for the year ended 13th August 2004 30th June 2004.
To re-elect as a director of the Company A C G Roberts, The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated who is retiring by rotation.
Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those 4.
To re-elect as a director of the Company G McFarland, shareholders registered in the register of members of the who is retiring by rotation.
Company as at 6 pm on 13th October 2004 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid annual general meeting in 5.
To approve the Directors remuneration report contained respect of the number of shares registered in their name at in the Annual report 2004. that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of 6.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the securities after 6 pm on 13th October 2004 shall be Company and to authorise the directors to determine disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend their remuneration.
To consider as special business and, if thought fit, to pass A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a the following resolution, which will be proposed as a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of special resolution:- him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company and the appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting.
A form of proxy is THAT, the Company be and is hereby unconditionally enclosed for this purpose.
authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary The register of directors shareholdings will be available for shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company inspection at the registered office of the Company during ordinary shares provided that: normal business hours until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting for 15 minutes prior to, and during, i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby the meeting.
No director has a service contract.
authorised to be purchased is 7,278,854: ii the maximum price that may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 10 business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 20p: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held in 2005 and 31st December 2005 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to such contract.
The 2000 figures have been restated to reflect the impact of the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement benefits.
Figures for 1995 to 1999 have not been restated.
Innovation applied Group profile 2004 Group profile 2004 Contents 2 The Renishaw mission Renishaw will design, manufacture and supply metrology systems of the highest quality and reliability to enable customers worldwide to carry out dimensional measurements to traceable standards.
Our product offerings will enhance quality and productivity, and we will strive for total customer satisfaction through superior customer service.
Our aim is to provide leading-edge technology by encouraging innovation to address our customers needs.
We are committed to sustained growth through continued investment in product development and manufacturing methods.
Renishaw wishes to be recognised collectively and individually as leaders and contributors in our field and our community.
We wish to achieve our aims in a way that is caring, open and honest.
Renishaw is an environmentally conscious and responsible company.
We will strive to ensure that all aspects of the business have the least harmful effect on the environment.
Corporate environmental policy The corporate environmental policy is an integral part of Renishaws business strategy.
The responsibility for managing and maintaining the policy lies with the Board of Renishaw plc.
To carry out this commitment, it is Renishaws policy to strive to ensure that all aspects of The Renishaw mission 2 the business have the least harmful effect on the environment by implementing an environmental management system to: Corporate environmental policy 2 Be fully aware of all environmental legislation and ensure that regulatory Introduction 3 requirements are met and, where feasible, improved upon.
History 4 Monitor the implementation of the policy by carrying out periodic audits of compliance and, when appropriate, introduce remedial measures.
The Chairmans vision 6 Ensure all employees, in the course of their duties, act in accordance Research and development 8 with the environmental policy.
Engineering 10 Encourage suppliers, contractors and vendors to act in accordance with our environmental standards.
Tool setting, Job set-up 12 In addition, areas of particular attention within the business will be the Post-process inspection 14 selection of non-polluting technology, waste minimisation, reuse recycling and the reduction of energy consumption.
Renishaw also makes a positive Calibration 16 environmental contribution in the local community by encouraging open Motion control 18 communication, general environmental awareness and the promotion of community projects.
Dental applications 22 Materials analysis 24 Worldwide support 26 Images shown on the front cover l to r feature Renishaws products which have been commended with major awards this year: RESR Worshipful Company of Scientific Instrument Makers OMP40 Queens Award for Enterprise 2004: Innovation SP25M Metalworking Production Award for best quality control product or system Renishaws business is metrology, the science of measurement 3 Renishaw fundamentally believes that success comes from patented and innovative products and processes, high quality manufacturing and the ability to provide local customer support in all our markets.
Renishaws business is metrology, the science of measurement.
The Groups innovative products ensure that exacting specifications are met with cost-effective methods and perform measurement to international standards.
Calibrating Renishaws ML10 Gold Standard laser systems against an iodine stabilised reference laser which is regularly calibrated at the National Physical Laboratory NPL, UK Group profile 2004 History 4 A history of innovation The first touch-trigger probe was invented by Sir David McMurtry, now Chairman and Chief Executive, in 1972 to solve a specific inspection requirement 02 of measuring some complex pipe runs for the Olympus engines used on Concorde.
At that time, David was Assistant Chief of Engine Design of all Rolls-Royce engines manufactured at the Filton, Bristol works.
His team had already developed a system to define and measure points in space using a v-shaped probe on a Notsa coordinate measuring machine CMM but it was heavy to operate and the small diameter pipes were deflected by the pressure of the probe making contact, which gave 01 incorrect readings.
Giving the matter some further thought, David built the first touchtrigger probe at home over a weekend.
It was quite a simple construction but employing fundamental location principles, it was sufficiently accurate for the task.
It acted as a switch where, as the stylus was deflected, contact was broken and froze the digital reading on the CMM.
This was achieved with a battery in a circuit that included a solenoid, which took the place of the machines normal foot switch.
Rolls-Royce took out a patent on Davids original design, which was filed on 21st September 1972 with him acknowledged as the inventor.
01 A sample of early promotional literature 04 Sir David McMurtry left and John Deer, 02 The first 3D touch-trigger probe July 2004 03 An early touch-trigger probe measuring complex pipe runs used on Concorde 5 David discussed his invention with John Deer, now Deputy Chairman.
John, with a background of machine shop engineering, was also working at Rolls-Royce, on power plant dynamics, but wanted to have his own business.
The two decided to go into partnership.
In his spare time, David had already formed a small manufacturing operation with a friend, which was called Shepherd and Adams.
This made components for some of Davids earlier inventions, 03 together with other components which were sold to engineering companies.
By 1977, David had been promoted to The company has received many To secure its position, S&A needed a Deputy Chief Designer but negotiated commendations for its products over the manufacturing licence but it was to become a consultant to Rolls-Royce past years, including ten Queens Awards, commercial practice at Rollson a two-day week basis, giving him more the most recent being the Queens Award Royce only to negotiate time to devote to Renishaws expanding for Enterprise 2004: Innovation for such licences with business.
It was not until 1979, however, Renishaws OMP40 compact spindle companies having limited when he had completed his responsibility probe for computer numerically liability.
An off the shelf at Rolls-Royce for the M45 Quiet Engine controlled CNC machine tools.
Other company called Renishaw project, that he joined Renishaw full-time.
major honours from the UK include the Electrical Limited was David was named as inventor or co- 1987 MacRobert Award, nine Millennium acquired for this purpose and inventor on some 47 patents or patent Products commendations, three registered on 4th April 1973.
In applications whilst at Rolls-Royce.
Manufacturing Excellence Awards from turn, the new company entered Today, he is also named as inventor or the Institute of Mechanical Engineers into a licence agreement with co-inventor of approaching 200 Renishaw and two achievement awards from S&A, the arrangement continuing inventions for which patent protection The Worshipful Company of Scientific until 1976 when, from that time, all has been applied worldwide.
Renishaw has also probes carried Renishaws trademark.
generated several hundred patents which received recognition for its products The relationship with Rolls-Royce have been granted to date.
The value in France, Germany, Italy, Japan and terminated in 1987 when Renishaw of patent protection was brought home the USA.
purchased Rolls-Royces 50% share to Renishaw after the first successful For the financial year ending 30th June in the patents.
2004, Renishaws sales totalled 128m, In the early days of the company, John David has received many personal the company employing 1,754 personnel, and David went into production in their awards, from overseas as well as in 1,279 UK, 475 overseas.
spare time, making everything themselves.
In 1989, he was made a Royal The first prototype probe and development Designer for Industry RDI.
In June 1994, model, together with some sample models, in Her Majesty The Queens Birthday were made in Davids garage at Alveston, Honours list, he was made a Commander near Bristol, and he continued to design of the Order of the British Empire CBE the early products in Wotton-under-Edge for services to Science and Technology.
By 1974, In the New Years Honours List 2001, business had grown to such an extent that David was appointed a Knight Bachelor 04 John finally decided to leave Rolls-Royce for services to Design and Innovation.
and work full-time for Renishaw.
The His contributions to metrology, the company acquired its first commercial science of measurement, have also premises in 1976, in the centre of Wottonbeen recognised by many institutions under-Edge, Gloucestershire, UK.
Group profile 2004 The Chairmans vision 6 The best way to predict your future, is to create it Sir David McMurtry Renishaws first product, the touch-trigger probe, came to revolutionise post-process inspection of manufactured components as well as the development of the CMM itself.
Over the past thirty years, the The basic idea of measurement is so management at Renishaw has tried important that Renishaw is confident of to build a company that is different to growth and there is a strong emphasis on most others: different in how technology growing its own people.
The company has is applied to real problems: in how the developed close links with local schools, company invests for the long term and having made considerable investment manufactures rather than outsources.
with money, resources and time.
Annually, some 30 apprentices and 40 sponsored Renishaw is a partner in its customers 01 students are supported through university.
success and, to provide customer support, In this way, contact is maintained with the company has established over 20 many young people and they are subsidiary companies overseas, together encouraged with the prospect of being with regional offices and a network of offered employment once they have agents and distributors.
Career paths are monitored assistance, new market niches and and the best are given management business opportunities can also be opportunities in the UK, as well identified quickly.
02 Since the early days, Renishaws strategy As for the future?
Sustained growth has been to work on the next generation from developing new products, processes, of innovative products, even if the markets and people.
Renishaw customer is perfectly happy with existing fundamentally believes that success ones.
Everywhere, in industry as well as comes from innovative and patented science, there are increasing demands to products and processes, low cost, high measure more things more accurately, to quality manufacturing and the ability to maintain a competitive edge and increase provide excellent local customer support productivity.
The companys investment in in all our markets around the world.
research and development and all other engineering costs, has always been a priority and represents over 17% of sales annually.
Of course, extensive use is made of Renishaws products in its own manufacturing processes.
01 Sir David, second from right, chairs a 03 The award winning SP25M probe new product development meeting inspecting the feature of a component 02 Innovative production techniques 04 Sir David McMurtry CBE, RDI, Chairman devised for the RLE products and Chief Executive, Renishaw plc 7 03 04 Group profile 2004 Research and development 8 01 01 Optical flatness clarification for Renishaws 03 X-ray analyser used to reveal flaws unnoticed by ML10 components conventional visual inspection 02 Calibrating the frequency stability of the RLE10 04 Installation of new scanning electron microscope fibre optic laser encoder SEM and structural chemical analyser SCA at New Mills for application development 9 R&D our future Since the companys early days, there has been a high commitment to research and development which, together with engineering expenses, amounted to 22m in the year ended 30th June 2004.
Renishaws continued investment has resulted in a comprehensive range of highly accurate probing systems, accessories, calibration and measuring systems and other innovative products which have significantly advanced the frontiers of knowledge throughout the world.
In addition to the New Mills and Old Town sites in Wotton-under-Edge, specialist research activities in measurement technology are carried out in the UK at 02 Renishaws locations on the Heriot-Watt campus, Riccarton, Edinburgh and at the University of Exeter Innovation Centre: also at RLS merilna tehnika d. o. o. a partner company in Slovenia.
These research activities continue to generate important patents which form the basis of current and future products.
New technologies, which are important to all product lines, are evaluated and 03 developed, as are new product ideas.
04 Group profile 2004 Engineering 10 Innovative manufacturing Renishaw has also consistently invested time and money in the development of innovative and cost-effective manufacturing processes.
Machine tools are routinely calibrated Renishaw Ireland Ltd, located at using Renishaws automated Swords, Co. Dublin, gives additional QC10 ballbar routines and laser facilities for manufacturing the Groups interferometers.
Automatic tool mature products, whilst production setting and spindle probing routines of Renishaws calibration and ensure that components are always spectroscopy products remains machined correctly, first time, to at Old Town, Wotton-under-Edge.
RLS merilna tehnika d. o. o. Slovenia, provides manufacturing facilities As the company employs its own for specialised products, including innovative products during the magnetic rotary encoder systems.
manufacturing process, it is uniquely placed to benefit from the productivity improvements made possible by their 01 use, together with any challenges The result of this is a revolutionary which might occur when integrating automated manufacturing system that new products.
This experience can be maximises the potential of standard widely disseminated to its customers machine tools, enabling milling, turning around the globe.
02 and inspection on a single machine, Currently, machining is carried together with automated loading and out at New Mills but following the unloading of materials and tools.
Highly completion of the second phase flexible manufacturing is achieved from of refurbishment of the buildings at the ability to produce a variety of Woodchester, it is planned to move this components using a single unmanned operation there in this financial year.
Novel methods are used to Much of the assembly operation was 03 enhance the measurement accuracy relocated there at the end of the first automatically.
This system, called phase of refurbishment.
However, RAMTIC Renishaws Automated development and the initial manufacture Milling, Turning and Inspection of new products will remain at New Centre, which gives in excess of Mills prior to their transfer to 130 productive hours weekly with main production.
assured quality, has won a number The main Assembly hall at Woodchester of prestigious awards.
04 provides leading-edge automated In addition, Renishaw uses assembly of components in cells automated CNC turning centres where multi-skilled operators build and for smaller components where test the finished product.
There has milling is not required.
been continued investment at both sites for the automated assembly and test of circuit boards using the latest SMT surface mount technology 05 systems and machines.
01 Motorised docking of a carousel 04 Manufacturing, Renishaw on one of the RAMTIC systems in Ireland Ltd Renishaws machine hall, New Mills 05 Manufacturing at RLS merilna tehnika d. o. o. Slovenia 02 RLE production, Old Town 03 Assembly hall, Woodchester 06 Triact assembly for Triclone 90, New Mills 06 Group profile 2004 Tool setting, Job set-up 12 Time, money and value The challenges facing the manufacturing industry continue to increase.
To remain competitive, companies need On CNC lathes or turning centres, to automate production whilst maintaining where space is restricted, Renishaw has tight control of the dimensions and finish developed a series of high-precision arms of their manufactured components.
which incorporates a tool setting probe.
The acceptance of quality control in These arms are available in removable, the production environment means that pull-down or motorised versions and in probing is considered essential and allows a wide variety of configurations.
the complete manufacturing process to As the core of highly automated flexible be monitored and made self-correcting.
manufacturing systems FMS, CNC 01 High productivity levels are achievable machines fitted with Renishaws probing without manual intervention, the downtime systems are essential to many of their associated with manual set-up of tools, operations, producing considerable fixtures and workpieces being significantly savings in time, manpower and materials.
An additional benefit is the fast, A number of complete hardware software accurate inspection of first-off components packages can be retrofitted easily on and automated update of offsets.
many machines which did not originally Renishaws probes for CNC milling incorporate probing.
They too can benefit machines and turning centres have from automation, with fast pay-back on the 02 been designed to withstand the hostile investment.
A comprehensive selection of conditions of hot metal chips and probing systems is available to fit a wide pressurised coolant sprays in the metal range of CNC machine tools, with the cutting environment, with an assured option of infrared or radio transmission long working life.
Used for automated to the interface, where hardwiring is component identification, workpiece not practical.
setting and inspection, probing has Renishaw provides a unique range of replaced costly, time-consuming manual proven solutions to increase throughput, 03 techniques which rely on the skill of the minimise downtime and eliminate scrap machines operator.
They also enable all important contributions to modern inexpensive fixturing to be used.
Tool setting systems enable fast, automatic update of tool offsets in the machines controller.
Tool wear and breakage can be monitored so that replacement tooling may be called up automatically.
The latest generation of tool setting systems for CNC machining centres incorporates laser technology for checking for missing or broken tool tips and tool 04 form verification.
01 HPRA tool setting arm for lathes 02 LP2 lathe inspection probe 03 RMP60 inspection probe employing frequency hopping spread system radio transmission 04 Renishaws award winning OMP40 compact spindle probe using infrared transmission 05 NC4 non-contact tool setting system for CNC milling machines 05 01 PH10T TP200 recent upgrade at Rousant Sherwood Manufacturing, specialist in producing complex Group profile 2004 machined components 02 Inspecting external features on both sides of the Aston Post-process inspection Martin DB9 GT sports car.
Photograph courtesy of LK 14 01 03 SP80 high accuracy probe with the ability to carry 05 SP25M probe inspecting a machined component long extension bars if required 06 UCC2 and SPA2 universal controller system 04 Inspection of Quick Step laminate flooring using for CMMs PH10 TP200.
Photograph courtesy of Uniclic 15 In touch with market trends Since the 1970s, Renishaws probes have been the industry standard.
Augmented with motorised heads, probing Renishaws success has been made efficiency is maximised and give a 3-axis possible by the close working relationship machine 5-axis capability.
A motorised the company enjoys with CMM head used with Renishaws patented manufacturers and users.
The frontiers Autochange system enables rapid and of inspection technology are constantly automatic exchange of multiple probe being extended and from close liaison types, extension bars and probe stylus throughout the design, development and combinations.
Probes using detachable evaluation process, Renishaw keeps 02 stylus modules benefit from automatic in step with the markets needs... and, or manual stylus changing.
These in most cases, one step ahead.
stylus configurations are optimised to suit the design of the CMM and inspection application.
Renishaw originally set inspection standards using touch-trigger principles for collecting data by taking a series of discrete points.
High-speed collection 03 of data is now undertaken using continuous contact or analogue scanning.
Traditionally, scanning was limited to relatively slow speeds, but Renishaws UCC range of controllers enables highspeed scanning, without compromising accuracy and is many times faster than was previously possible.
The company supplies a comprehensive 04 range of styli for component inspection and scanning applications.
These are available with a variety of profiles, sizes and fittings to best suit the probe employed and the component features and dimensions.
06 05 Group profile 2004 Calibration 16 Performance measuring solutions Renishaws QC10 ballbar checks CNC machine tools quickly and cost-effectively.
The ballbar software can automatically ML10, the original laser calibration system, diagnose a variety of machine errors was introduced in 1989 and quickly and can test a machines positioning established a reputation as a market leader performance within a few minutes to in terms of system accuracy and customer ISO and ASME standards.
The recently upgraded knowledge of the production process, ML10 Gold Standard system offers subregular use of the system can increase 1 ppm parts per million accuracy for product quality, reduce scrap and machine ultra-precise machine calibration.
Having downtime and give fast payback.
1 nanometre resolution, the system has a standard linear axis range of 40 metres and The latest version of the Ballbar 5 HPS works in temperatures from 0 to 40 C, software maximises the efficiency, power with an environmental compensation unit and value of regular QC10 ballbar testing.
which normalises temperature, pressure In addition to its diagnostic facilities, and humidity factors.
This system has features include Machine history which 01 doubled the laser frequency accuracy to reviews a machines performance over 0.05 ppm compared to earlier versions time in a graphical format: Part program and handles axis speeds up to 1,000 mm sec.
generator which generates ballbar test part programs quickly and automatically: and Ballbar plot simulator which predicts the effect of maintenance and tuning on the machines performance.
This software is also available as an upgrade to existing users and in a number of foreign languages.
The machine checking gauge MCG enables a rapid volumetric accuracy check for CMMs, complying with British Standard BS EN ISO 10360-2.
Utilising a specially calibrated stylus, the gauge is available in a range of arm lengths and pillar heights to suit most sizes of machines.
Renishaws laser systems are used to determine the accuracy of CMMs, machine tools and other position-critical systems requiring accurate measurement and calibration.
The principle of this laser measurement is based on the international standard for the metre, the speed of light.
Its novel design features offer the ultimate in flexibility of operation and software hardware interfacing.
01 QC10 ballbar system checking X-Z positioning 02 Digital printer undergoing a print test, all positional performance on a Hurco machine tool at TJW, data having been calibrated and analysed with a Cam, Gloucestershire ML10 system.
Photography courtesy of Inca Digital Printers 17 02 Group profile 2004 Motion control 18 On a high with the Airbus A380 Superjumbo By virtually every measure of comparison the new Airbus A380 Superjumbo will be the largest commercial aircraft in the world and Renishaw is playing a part.
Renishaw offers a wide range of compact optical, magnetic and laser encoder systems to provide nanometre resolution, high-speed solutions to meet the requirements of diverse industry sectors.
At Airbus Renishaws encoders are used in 01 robotic wing assemblers.
As well Optical encoders as offering unrivalled performance, are applied in almost all sectors of Renishaws encoder systems provide industry including metrology, motion simplified installation and minimise cost systems, electronics, semiconductor of ownership.
handling, medical, scanning printing, Optical linear and rotary angle encoders scientific instruments, space research, offer easy installation and set-up, with photography and specialist machine tools.
many patented features including filtering Renishaws tape-based encoder systems optics and a set-up LED that remove provide resolutions from 10 microns to the need for oscilloscopes and other 10 nanometres.
The durable scale can complicated set-up equipment.
be cut to any user-defined length up to 70 metres.
Its unique filtering optics require none of the careful handling and cleaning of many traditional scales so signal strength, purity and accuracy are maintained in conditions considered unsuitable for most open optical encoders.
02 01 Renishaws encoder systems incorporated in the Airbus A380 stage O panel wing assembly robot 02 RG4 encoder system 03 A380 image reprinted courtesy of Airbus 03 Group profile 2004 Motion control continued 20 01 01 Renishaws laser encoder system fitted to an 03 RM36 non-contact magnetic encoder, resistant ISARA ultra precision CMM.
Photograph to harsh environments courtesy of IBS Precision Engineering 04 SR readhead direct drive motor DDR application 02 Signum encoder system 05 RLE10 fibre optic laser encoder 21 03 02 Laser encoders have an intrinsically high Renishaws new encoder range To meet the increasing demand for resolution which, combined with a system offers high-speed, reliable, non-contact reliable, low cost, high-speed rotary architecture that eliminates Abb error, performance combined with advanced position feedback, Renishaw and its TM provide the highest possible positioning features including the IN-TRAC autopartner company RLS have introduced accuracy.
Renishaw offers precision phase optical reference mark.
a range of compact, high-speed feedback for a variety of applications, to 30,000 rpm rotary magnetic The first offering from the range is the ranging from long axis machine tools to encoders which are available as RESM angle encoder, which comprises X-Y wafer inspection systems.
With almost packaged or unpackaged options.
the RESM ring, the SR readhead and Si twenty years experience, Renishaw is These have been designed for use in interface.
Eliminating position error, unquestionably the world-leading supplier diverse applications, such as marine, backlash and audible noise, the of homodyne interferometer-based metrology medical, print, packaging, industrial combination of a DDR motor with the solutions.
The company enhanced the automation, metal working, motor RESM encoder provides a perfectly technology, which is field-proven for the control and instrumentation.
The laser The encoder comprises a magnetic wavelength is traceable to the National actuator and separate encoder body.
Physical Laboratory NPL in the UK.
Rotation of the actuator is sensed by The evolving range of interferometera custom encoder chip within the body based encoders provides effective position and processed to industry-standard feedback solutions for a broad range of absolute, analogue, incremental and precision applications.
include E-beam and laser writers: mask, wafer and LCD inspection tools: fibre optic alignment equipment, precision machine tool and CMMs: and long axis aerospace machine tools.
04 05 Group profile 2004 Dental applications 22 Another jewel in our crown Already a world leader in the field of industrial metrology, Renishaw is now applying its expertise to the growing area of dental CAD CAM.
The need for high-quality scanned data It interfaces with Nobel Biocares Procera from dies and the ability to use this CADDesign software and allows the dental data to manufacture crowns and bridges laboratory to send the scanned data to accurately are requirements with which Nobel Biocares facility to manufacture the company is very familiar, albeit in the the coping.
The laboratory then builds environment of manufacturing industries up the porcelain on the coping to produce such as automotive and aerospace.
the crown which is then delivered to the dentist.
Renishaw has used its metrology expertise to better understand the requirements of For some years, Renishaws Cyclone margin fits for crowns and bridges.
digitising machine with Tracecut software, Allowable margin fit errors are perhaps has provided a complete standalone system more modest than is generally understood.
for users in many industrial sectors who Renishaw has recently published a UK require the ultimate in high-speed and fine 01 paper on the accuracy of crowns and their detail scanning.
It can be supplied with a fitting which was printed in the May 2004 low-force analogue contact probe for the issue of Dental Laboratory magazine.
very best accuracy or with a non-contact laser probe for scanning delicate materials.
Renishaws Triclone 90 was developed A long-bed option is also available to to meet the particular needs of dental accommodate large components.
For scanning during the production of the dental profession, it has uses for prosthodontic appliances such as bridges, whole-jaw restoration applications.
These require high rates of data capture from fine detail impression dies, with high accuracy.
It incorporates a unique tripod motion platform which is dynamically stiff, allowing fast, precise motion.
Renishaw commenced working in 2002 02 with Nobel Biocare, one of the world leaders in innovative aesthetic dental solutions to design a compact, easy to use and affordable dental scanner for small to medium-sized dental laboratories.
This 03 resulted in the Procera Piccolo, a compact single-tooth scanner which is very mobile.
Having a small footprint, it fits easily on a laboratory bench, and incorporates Renishaws user-friendly software.
01 Triclone 90 showing Triact mechanism 03 The Procera Piccolo single tooth scanner 02 Cyclone scanning a maxillofacial model in the region 04 Currently in Japan, there is a high demand for crowns of the orbital cavity, with in-situ dental implants and using ceramic materials in their production rather than abutments, to enable later accurate machining of a metals which can be cast.
This gives a more natural supporting plate superstructure which will restore appearance.
It is also common practice for much of the aesthetic function and confidence to the affected person.
work to be undertaken in-house by dental surgeons Photography courtesy of The Guys, Kings and St themselves unlike the UK where external dental Thomass Hospitals Medical and Dental Institute laboratories are usually involved 04 Group profile 2004 Materials analysis 24 Non-destructive analysis Renishaw manufactures a wide range of spectroscopy systems and components for Raman and photoluminescence spectroscopy including Raman microscopes, compact process monitoring spectrometers, diode lasers and state-of-the-art cooled CCD detectors, for end-user and OEM applications.
The Raman effect occurs when laser light Gemmologists also use the Raman hits a material: light is scattered, a tiny microscopes to identify and determine fraction of which is shifted in frequency the quality of gemstones and to determine as atoms in the material vibrate.
Analysis their provenance by analysing the tiny of the frequency shifts spectrum of the mineral inclusions contained within them.
light reveals the characteristic vibration A variety of bio-medical applications frequencies of the atoms and hence continue to be developed, especially in 01 the chemical composition and structure the study of body tissues and biopsies.
Particles as small as Renishaws structural and chemical 1 micrometre can be uniquely identified.
analyser SCA for scanning electron Users in research laboratories, microscopes SEM is the only commercially development laboratories and production available system capable of performing lines worldwide employ the microscopes chemical analysis from inside an SEM and analysers in a diverse range of fields whilst simultaneously viewing the sample.
for example, in the computer hard disc, The capabilities of Renishaws Raman 02 pharmaceutical, polymer, semiconductor, instruments are continuously being and chemical industries.
Other updated and expanded to include a applications include the identification wider range of lasers, enhanced optical of drugs and explosives by forensic filtering systems, many new accessories, scientists and the analysis of paint and increased automation and improved pigments on historic works of art as an software, making them even easier aid to accurate restoration, as well as to use.
in the detection of forgeries.
01 Analysis of a slice of meteorite using the structural and 03 chemical analyser at McCrone Associates Inc. USA 02 Evaluating turbine blade coatings using Renishaws Raman analyser and fibre optic probe system at CESI, Italy 03 An inVia Raman microscope used to research new applications at the Department of Chemical and Forensic Sciences, University of Bradford, UK Group profile 2004 Worldwide support 26 01 Renishaws headquarters building and main site is at New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire, a former 19th century woollen mill.
The company has additional operations in the UK at Old Town, Wotton-under-Edge and Woodchester, Gloucestershire together with R&D facilities on the Heriot-Watt campus, Riccarton, Edinburgh and at the University of Exeter Innovation Centre.
Europe Austria Hungary The Netherlands Slovenia United Kingdom United Kingdom Renishaw Austria GmbH.
Renishaws Representative Renishaw International BV, RLS merilna tehnika d. o. o.
Group Headquarters, Special Projects Group, Office Kereskedelmi Benelux Sales Office.
Renishaw plc, New Mills, Renishaw plc, Riccarton.
Renishaw s. r. o. Poland Renishaw Ibrica S. A.
United Kingdom Ireland Renishaw Sp.
United Kingdom Research and France Sweden Renishaw Ireland Ltd. Renishaw plc, Old Town, Development Office, Renishaw S. A. S. Russia Renishaw AB.
Germany Switzerland Renishaw S. p. A.
United Kingdom United Kingdom Renishaw GmbH.
Renishaw plc, Wotton Travel Ltd. Woodchester.
01 Group Headquarters, Renishaw plc, 02 Japan, centre building Renishaw KK, Tokyo New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge 03 Austria, Renishaw GmbH, Guntramsdorf 27 Renishaw has established whollyRenishaw Austria GmbH has owned subsidiary companies, relocated to Guntramsdorf.
together with other regional Distributors and agents have been operations, to provide technical appointed in other key countries and marketing support in its major around the globe, as listed on markets around the globe.
Renishaws website: 02 During the last financial year, www.
com Worldwide Renishaw KK has moved back to the Shinjuku area of Tokyo, Renishaw locations 34 Distributors Japan into a building which the company has purchased.
In the 1980s, accommodation was rented in adjacent premises.
03 Worldwide Australia The Peoples Republic Hong Kong Japan South Korea Renishaw Oceania Pty Ltd. of China Renishaw Renishaw KK, Tokyo Renishaw Korea Ltd. Renishaws Representative Hong Kong Ltd. Brazil Japan Taiwan Office Beijing.
Renishaw Latino India Renishaw KK, Nagoya.
The Peoples Republic Renishaw Metrology Representative Office.
Singapore of China Systems Pvt Ltd. Canada Renishaws USA Renishaws Representative Renishaw Canada Israel Representative Office.
Renishaw Israel Ltd. Group profile 2004 Worldwide support continued 28 Our commitment to customer care The demonstration area in the Technology Centre, New Mills provides a hands on opportunity of evaluating particular applications in a live situation without interrupting Renishaws own mainstream production.
The area is equipped with CMMs and international distributors.
The events are CNC machining centres and lathes for promoted with international advertising, demonstrating the Groups products, direct marketing and through the Groups for customer training and for UK and marketing website: www.
Similar facilities together with application features on the are available at many of the Groups benefits of using Renishaws products.
New Renishaw has continued to develop its product development can also benefit main website www.
com in from these unique facilities.
particular to improve the speed of Renishaw demonstrates its products searching and downloading.
Key sections 01 and product capabilities at over 100 are also currently available in the Czech, global events annually, comprising major Chinese, Dutch, French, German, Italian, international exhibitions as well as local Japanese, Korean, Polish, Portuguese, promotions and seminars.
These are Russian, Spanish and Swedish languages.
organised in conjunction with the Groups The Groups literature is also available in subsidiary companies overseas and these and other languages.
02 03 01 Demonstration facilities, New Mills 02 Machine Tool training area, New Mills 03 CMM training area, New Mills 04 Repair centre, Woodchester 04 01 Service centre, Renishaw Inc Group profile 2004 02 Production cell at Renishaw Inc provides local manufacturing capability of special styli Worldwide support continued and enables rapid response for the US market 30 Renishaw has a high commitment A customised installation service to customer care.
Should any problem provides a route to market for many arise, a core team of skilled technicians, standard products which are required based in the UK and at a number of the to be fully integrated into a particular Groups overseas subsidiary companies, machine tool or CMM.
is ready to provide service or perform test and re-calibration as may be required.
Where a standard product may not meet a customers requirements for a certain application, Renishaws specialist design 01 teams can design, develop and deliver tailored solutions, based on the extensive knowledge and experience 02 that the company has acquired whilst working with customers from around the world.
These designs can also be the starting point for new standard products since solving a problem for one particular customer may prove beneficial for others.
0 03 03 Probe head test rig, service centre, 05 Faro articulating arm CMM inspects car 07 On-line reservations from home Woodchester body component www.
com 04 Styli specifically designed and manufactured 06 WTL travel showroom Wotton-under-Edge by Renishaw for use on the Faro articulated arm 31 04 05 WTL Wotton Travel Ltd was established in 1986, initially to co-ordinate the travel requirements of the Renishaw Group.
Now, as an independent travel Through the Internet and WTLs own management company, it also provides reservation system, comprehensive a range of specialist services to corporate flight and rail information is available, clients worldwide.
WTL can cater for all and tickets are issued on site.
The requests, from a weekend break in service is supplemented by the London, to a trek through the Himalayas.
com Our consultants have many years experience in the travel industry, with first-hand knowledge of many destinations.
06 Every enquiry is given individual attention to ensure the best holiday is on offer for its customers.
The travel showroom is located in Wotton- 07 under-Edge and is open to personal callers and telephone email enquiries.
A comprehensive range of brochures is on display featuring every kind of holiday, with qualified and trained personnel on hand to deal with travel requests.
Renishaw plc New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire GL12 8JR United Kingdom T 44 0 1453 524524 F 44 0 1453 524901 E uk@renishaw.
com Designed and produced by Barneys Strategic Communication Printed by APB Colour Print Ltd www.
