The results of the 2005 annual general meetings may also Rio Tinto plc and the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited impose be obtained on the appropriate shareholder helpline Rio Tinto plc: restrictions on any person who controls, directly or indirectly, 20 per cent Freephone 0800 435021: and Rio Tinto Limited: toll free 1800 813 292. or more of the votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such a person only has an interest in Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then the restrictions Rio Tinto plc will only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, 30 per cent or more of At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision will the votes at that Companys general meetings.
be considered, each Rio Tinto plc share will carry one vote and the If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject holder of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote cast to certain limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited.
The holder of the such persons i may not attend or vote at general meetings of the Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly and only in accordance relevant Company: ii may not receive dividends or other distributions with the votes cast by public shareholders for and against the equivalent from the relevant Company: and iii may be divested of their interest by resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting.
the directors of the relevant Company.
These restrictions will continue to The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually apply until such persons have either made a public offer for all of the hold any voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in publicly held shares of the other Company, or have reduced their Rio Tinto Limited and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating controlling interest below the thresholds specified, or have acquired to the Special Voting Share.
through a permitted means at least 50 per cent of the voting rights of all the shares held by the public shareholders of each Company.
Rio Tinto Limited These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision held shares of both Companies would be required to avoid the will be considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share will carry one vote and, restrictions set out above, even if the interests which breach the together with the Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares held by Tinto thresholds are only held in one of the Companies.
The directors do not Holdings Australia, the holder of its Special Voting Share will carry one have the discretion to exempt a person from the operation of these rules.
vote for each vote cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to cooperate their parallel meeting.
Tinto Holdings Australia and the holder of the to enforce the restrictions contained in their articles of association and Special Voting Share are required to vote strictly, and only, in constitution and also agree that no member of the Rio Tinto Group shall accordance with the votes cast for and against the equivalent resolution accept a third party offer for Rio Tinto Limited shares unless such at the parallel Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting.
acceptance is approved by a Joint Decision of the public shareholders The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold of both Companies.
any voting shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto plc and cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Guarantees Special Voting Share.
In December 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of creditors of the other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll Capital distribution rights Guarantees, each Company guaranteed the contractual obligations of If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing Agreement the other Company and the obligations of other persons which are provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets of both guaranteed by the other Company, subject to certain limited exceptions.
If the surplus assets available for distribution by one Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll Guarantees may make demand upon Company on each of the shares held by its public shareholders exceed the guarantor thereunder without first having recourse to the Company the surplus assets available for distribution by the other Company on or persons whose obligations are being guaranteed.
The obligations of each of the shares held by its public shareholders, then an equalising the guarantor under each Deed Poll Guarantee expire upon termination payment between the two Companies shall be made, to the extent of the Sharing Agreement and under other limited circumstances, but permitted by applicable law, such that the amount available for only in respect of obligations arising after such termination and, in the distribution on each share held by public shareholders of each case of other limited circumstances, the publication and expiry of due Company conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The objective is to ensure notice.
The shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce the provision that the public shareholders of both Companies have equivalent rights of the Deed Poll Guarantees.
to the assets of the combined Group on a per share basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to General shareholder enquiries the shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company.
Computershare Investor Services PLC and Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited are the registrars for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations Limited, respectively.
All enquiries and correspondence concerning The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose certain shareholdings, other than shares held in ADR form, should be directed restrictions and obligations on persons who control interests in public to the respective registrar.
Their addresses and telephone numbers are quoted companies in excess of certain thresholds that, under certain given under Useful addresses on page 150.
Shareholders should notify circumstances, include obligations to make a public offer for all of the Computershare promptly in writing of any change of address.
outstanding issued shares of the relevant company.
The threshold Enquiries concerning Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares applicable to Rio Tinto plc under UK law and regulations is 30 per cent held in ADR form should be directed to JP Morgan Chase Bank NA and and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian laws and regulations is The Bank of New York respectively, whose addresses and telephone 20 per cent.
numbers are also given under Useful addresses.
As part of the DLC merger, the memorandum and articles of Shareholders can obtain details about their own shareholding on association of Rio Tinto plc and the constitution of Rio Tinto Limited the internet.
Full details, including how to gain secure access to this were amended with the intention of extending these laws and personalised enquiry facility, are given on the Computershare website: regulations to the combined enterprise and, in particular, to ensure that www.
com a person cannot exercise control over one Company without having made offers to the public shareholders of both Companies.
It is consistent with the creation of the single economic enterprise and the equal treatment of the two sets of shareholders, that these laws and regulations should operate in this way.
The articles of association of 82 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Consolidation of share certificates Rio Tinto on the web If a certificated shareholding in Rio Tinto plc is represented by several Rio Tinto maintains a substantial amount of information on its website, individual share certificates, they can be replaced by one consolidated including this and previous annual reports, many other publications and certificate: there is no charge for this service.
Share certificates should links to Group company websites.
be sent to Computershare together with a letter of instruction.
The maintenance and integrity of the Rio Tinto website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the UK governing the Share certificates name change preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Share certificates in the name of The RTZ Corporation PLC remain valid legislation in other jurisdictions.
notwithstanding the name change to Rio Tinto plc in 1997.
com Share warrants to bearer All outstanding share warrants to bearer of Rio Tinto plc have been General enquiries converted into registered ordinary shares under the terms of a Scheme If you require general information about the Group please contact the of Arrangement sanctioned by the Court in 2001.
Holders of any External Affairs department.
For all other enquiries please contact the outstanding share warrants to bearer should contact the company relevant company secretary or the share registrar.
secretary of Rio Tinto plc for an application form in order to obtain their rights to registered ordinary shares.
Publications The following publications may be obtained from Rio Tinto: Low cost share dealing service Stocktrade operates the Rio Tinto Low Cost Share Dealing Service 2004 Annual report and financial statements which provides a simple telephone facility for buying and selling 2004 Annual review Rio Tinto plc shares.
Basic commission is 0.5 per cent up to 10,000, 2004 Sustainable Development review reducing to 0.2 per cent thereafter, subject to a minimum commission The way we work Rio Tintos statement of business practice of 15.
Further information is available from Stocktrade, a division of Review magazine Rio Tintos quarterly magazine for shareholders Brewin Dolphin Securities which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Their details are given under Useful Copies of the 2004 annual reports for the following listed Rio Tinto addresses.
Group companies are also available on request: Individual Savings Account ISA Bougainville Copper Limited Stocktrade offers UK residents the opportunity to hold Rio Tinto plc Coal & Allied Industries Limited shares in an ISA.
Existing PEPs or ISAs may also be transferred to Energy Resources of Australia Limited Stocktrade.
Further information can be obtained from Stocktrade whose Palabora Mining Company Limited details are given under Useful addresses.
Lihir Gold Limited Corporate nominee service Full parent entity financial statements for Rio Tinto Limited are available Computershare in conjunction with Rio Tinto plc, have introduced a free of charge from the Rio Tinto Limited company secretary on request.
corporate nominee service for private individuals.
Further information These financial statements are also available on the Rio Tinto website.
can be obtained from Computershare.
Publication of financial statements Shareholders wishing to receive the Annual report and financial statements and or the Annual review in electronic rather than paper form should register their instruction on the Computershare website.
Unsolicited mail Rio Tinto is aware that some shareholders have had occasion to complain that outside organisations, for their own purposes, have used information obtained from the Companies share registers.
Rio Tinto, like other companies, cannot by law refuse to supply such information provided that the organisation concerned pays the appropriate statutory fee.
Shareholders in the UK who wish to stop receiving unsolicited mail should register with The Mailing Preference Service by letter, telephone or through their website.
The Mailing Preference Service Freepost 22 London W1E 7EZ Telephone: 020 7291 3310 Website: www.
uk Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 83 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
