Operational review continued containing 140,000 tonnes of enriched ore. A phased approach reduces the initial investment required and allows confirmation of marketing and Other operations regulatory arrangements prior to expansion, which could be considered within three years.
Diamonds from Murowa are marketed through Rio Tinto Diamonds in Antwerp.
Safeguards are in place regarding the Other operations comprise the Lihir gold mine in Papua New Guinea, chain of custody of the product.
Zimbabwe is a signatory of the the Kelian gold mine in Indonesia and the Sari Gunay gold project Kimberley Process.
Following the decision to proceed with Murowa, the directors of Rio Tinto Zimbabwe RioZim agreed to a restructuring of Rio Tintos Lihir Rio Tinto: 14.5 per cent 56 per cent shareholding in RioZim.
As a result of the restructure, Lihir Gold is a publicly quoted company formed to finance and develop Rio Tinto owns a direct 78 per cent interest in Murowa and has a the Lihir mine in Papua New Guinea.
Lihir Gold had a market residual economic interest in RioZim.
RioZim became an independent, capitalisation of A$1.49 billion US$1.16 billion at 31 December 2004.
Zimbabwean controlled, listed company owning the remaining 22 per Lihir directly employs approximately 1,070 people, of whom 91 per cent of Murowa.
cent are Papua New Guinea nationals, including 36 per cent Lihirians.
Some 1,600 contractors are also employed.
2004 operating performance Net earnings were US$1 million.
The construction and commissioning of 2004 operating performance facilities and infrastructure was the main objective in 2004.
While Lihirs contribution to Rio Tintos earnings for 2004 included US$12 commissioning problems in the process plant delayed full capacity being million resulting from the revaluation of ore stockpiles to restore these to reached, the fourth quarter saw the first parcel of diamonds successfully the lower of cost and net realisable value taking account of changes in mined, processed and sold.
circumstances including higher gold prices.
Gold production at Lihir was 8.9 per cent higher than in 2003 due to higher throughput and higher head grades.
Kelian Rio Tinto: 90 per cent Kelian Equatorial Mining Kelian operated an open pit gold mine in East Kalimantan, Indonesia.
Mining ceased in 2003 with production from stockpiled ore completed in February 2005.
A mine closure consultative process was completed in 2003 with stakeholders agreeing on the key mine closure directions.
Work is continuing on mine closure activities including establishment of post closure institutions, the upgrade of the Namuk tailings dam, and rehabilitation and revegetation.
Work is planned for removal of camp and operating facilities and the camp site area prepared for future wetlands development.
Kelian has been reducing employee and contractor numbers as it winds down its operations and focuses on mine closure activities.
Settlement of compensation claims is continuing under a 2001 agreement and a number of programmes are in place to provide sustainable solutions for local communities and former employees after closure.
2004 operating performance Rio Tintos share of Kelians production was 295,000 ounces in 2004, 30 per cent below the previous year, as a result of the processing of low grade stockpiles.
PROJECT Sari Gunay Rio Tinto: 70 per cent The Sari Gunay formerly Dashkasan project in Iran entered the prefeasibility stage during the year.
Work continued on the delineation of the sizeable body of gold mineralisation discovered in Kordestan province in western Iran.
Drilling continued to outline additional mineralisation and to increase confidence in existing estimates.
Metallurgical test work and community and environmental baseline studies continued.
52 Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW
