Principal subsidiary undertakings at December 31, 2004 Incorporated within the UK held by Rolls-Royce Group plc Rolls-Royce plc Principal trading holding company Groby Limited Non-trading company Incorporated within the UK held by subsidiary undertakings Civil aerospace Rolls E. L. Turbofans Limited Engine support services holding company 1 Rolls-Royce General Partner Limited Management company Rolls-Royce Total Care Services Limited Aftermarket support services Marine systems 2 Rolls-Royce Marine Electrical Systems Limited Marine electrical systems Rolls-Royce Marine Power Operations Limited Nuclear submarine propulsion systems Energy 3 Rolls-Royce Fuel Cell Systems Limited Development of fuel cell systems Financial services and corporate Rolls-Royce Aircraft Management Limited Sales finance and other financial services 3 Rolls-Royce Capital Limited Sales finance and other financial services Rolls-Royce International Limited International support and commercial information services Rolls-Royce Leasing Limited Engine leasing Rolls-Royce Overseas Holdings Limited Holding company 4 Rolls-Royce Overseas Investments Limited Holding company Rolls-Royce Power Engineering plc Power generation and marine systems Rolls-Royce Power Ventures Limited Provision of project development capabilities 5 Vinters Engineering plc Holding company Vinters plc Holding company 1 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Supplies Limited.
2 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Power Engineering plc.
3 This subsidiary acts as an agent of Rolls-Royce plc.
4 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Overseas Holdings Limited.
5 The interest is held by Vinters plc.
The above companies operate principally in the UK and the effective Group interest is 100%.
82 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004 Principal subsidiary undertakings continued at December 31, 2004 Incorporated overseas held by subsidiary undertakings Civil aerospace Brazil Rolls-Royce Brasil Limitada Repair and overhaul 1 France Rolls-Royce Technical Support SARL Project support 2 Germany Rolls-Royce Deutschland Ltd & Co KG BR700 series engine development and manufacture Italy Europea Microfusioni Aerospaziali S. p. A.
Manufacture of castings 3 USA Rolls-Royce Corporation Design, development and manufacture of gas turbine engines 4 USA Rolls-Royce Engine Services Oakland Inc. Repair and overhaul Marine systems 5 Finland Rolls-Royce OY AB Manufacture of winches and propeller systems 5 Norway Rolls-Royce Marine AS Design and manufacture of ship equipment holding company 6 Norway Ulstein Holding AS Holding company 5 Sweden Kamewa Holding AB Holding company 7 Sweden Rolls-Royce AB Manufacture of propeller systems 4 USA Rolls-Royce Commercial Marine Inc. Aftermarket support services 4 USA Rolls-Royce Naval Marine Inc. Design and manufacture of ship propellers 4 USA Syncrolift Inc. Shiplift systems Energy 8 Canada Rolls-Royce Canada Limited Industrial gas turbines and aero engine sales, service and overhaul 1 India Rolls-Royce Energy Systems India Private Limited Project management and customer support 1 Singapore Rolls-Royce Pte Limited Engine and turbine compression systems, spares 4 USA Rolls-Royce Energy Systems Inc.
Turbine generator packages Financial services and corporate Canada Rolls-Royce Holdings Canada Inc. Holding company 1 Guernsey Nightingale Insurance Limited Insurance services 9 USA Rolls-Royce North America USA Holdings Co. Holding company 10 USA Rolls-Royce North America Holdings Inc. Holding company 11 USA Rolls-Royce Capital Inc. Financial services 1 The interests are held by Rolls-Royce Overseas Holdings Limited.
2 The interest is held as follows: 49.5% Rolls-Royce Erste Beteiligungs GmbH, 50.5% Rolls-Royce Zweite Beteiligungs GmbH.
3 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Asset Management Inc. 4 The interests are held by Rolls-Royce North America Ventures I Inc. 5 The interests are held by Vinters International Limited.
6 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Marine AS.
7 The interest is held by Kamewa Holding AB.
8 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Holdings Canada Inc. 9 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce Overseas Investments Limited.
10 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce North America USA Holdings Co. 11 The interest is held by Rolls-Royce North America Ventures II Inc.
The above companies operate principally in the country of their incorporation.
The effective Group interest is 100%, other than Europea Microfusioni Aerospaziali S. p. A. which is 51%.
A list of all subsidiary undertakings will be included in the Companys annual return to Companies House.
83 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2004
