52 SABMiller plc Annual Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2004 Index 52 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 53 Independent Auditors Report 54 Consolidated Profit and Loss Accounts 55 Consolidated Balance Sheets 56 Consolidated Cash Flow Statements 57 Consolidated Statements of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 57 Consolidated Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 58 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 115 Balance Sheets of SABMiller plc 117 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings 120 Principal Associated Undertakings Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors have reviewed the groups budget and cash flow statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view forecasts.
On the basis of this review, and in the light of the of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the current financial position and existing borrowing facilities, the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing those directors are satisfied that SABMiller plc is a going concern and financial statements, the directors are required to: have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Select suitable accounting policies and then apply the financial statements.
The groups external auditors, them consistently  LLP, have audited the financial Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable statements and their unqualified report appears on page 53. and prudent The directors approval of the financial statements appears State whether applicable accounting standards have been on page 55. followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and A copy of the financial statements of the group is placed explained in the financial statements: and on the companys website.
The directors are responsible for the Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will on the companys website.
Information published on the internet continue in business is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation requirements in preparing the financial statements.
and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting legislation in other jurisdictions.
records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group, and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act, 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
In preparing the accompanying financial statements, UK generally accepted accounting principles and Financial Services Authority regulations have been followed, suitable accounting policies have been used, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Any changes to accounting policies are approved by the board and the effects thereof are fully explained in the financial statements.
