124 SABMiller plc Definitions Adjusted earnings Net interest cover EBIT This comprises the profit for the financial year after adjusting for This is the ratio of profit before interest, taxation and exceptional profits and losses on items of a capital nature, as well as the items to net financing costs before exceptional items.
impact of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Net operating assets Adjusted profit before tax This is the sum of fixed assets, stocks and debtors less interest This is defined as profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and free liabilities.
A reconciliation of this number is provided in exceptional items.
Cash operating margin % Operating margin % This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing EBITDA as a percentage of turnover, excluding associates.
profit before interest and taxation as a percentage of turnover, including associates.
Cash operating return % This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing the Operating return % sum of EBITDA and cash dividends received from associates This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing and other investments, as a percentage of net operating assets, profit before interest and taxation, including associates, as a adjusted for cumulative goodwill eliminated against shareholders percentage of net operating assets, excluding goodwill.
funds and accumulated depreciation and amortisation.
Return on equity % EBITA This is calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by shareholders This is calculated by expressing earnings before interest, funds.
Total borrowings EBITA margin % This comprises the sum of the interest bearing liabilities included This is calculated by expressing earnings before interest, in creditors due within and after one year.
taxation and goodwill amortisation as a percentage of turnover including associates.
EBITDA This comprises net cash inflow from operating activities, before working capital movements.
Effective tax rate % This is calculated by dividing the tax charge for the year by the profit before taxation excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Free cash flow This comprises net cash inflow from operations plus dividends received from associates and other investments, and cash from the sales of tangible fixed assets and investments less net interest paid, taxation paid and cash paid for capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets.
Net asset value per share This is calculated by dividing shareholders funds by the closing number of shares in issue.
