80 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual The full Report and Accounts is sent specified in the Notice of Meeting.
For this General Meeting of Scottish & Newcastle plc to all shareholders who have requested purpose, the time of receipt will be taken will be held at the Sheraton Grand Hotel, it.
Otherwise the Annual Review is sent.
to be the time as determined by the 1 Festival Square, Edinburgh on timestamp applied to the message by the A member entitled to attend and vote Thursday 28 April 2005 at 11.30 a. m. CREST Applications Host from which the may appoint one or more proxies to for the following purposes: issuers agent is able to retrieve the attend and, on a poll, vote on his behalf.
message by enquiry to CREST in the Resolution 1 A proxy need not be a member of the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this To consider and adopt the Report of the Company.
To be effective, the enclosed time any change of instructions to proxies Directors and the accounts for the year form of proxy should be lodged at the appointed through CREST should be to 31 December 2004. ofce of the Companys registrars not communicated to the appointee through later than 48 hours before the time of Resolution 2 other means.
To consider and adopt the Directors CREST members and, where applicable, Remuneration Report.
Alternatively you may register your vote their CREST sponsors or voting service electronically as explained in the notes Resolution 3 providers, should note that CRESTCo does to the form of proxy.
not make available special procedures in To declare a dividend.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the CREST for any particular messages.
Resolution 4 Normal system timings and limitations will meeting and for the purpose of the To re-appoint Dr N C Bain as a director.
determination of the Company of the therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the Resolution 5 number of votes a member may cast members must be entered on the responsibility of the CREST member To re-appoint Sir Ian Robinson as concerned to take or, if the CREST a director.
Companys register of members no later than 6 p. m. on Tuesday 26 April member is a CREST personal member or Resolution 6 sponsored member or has appointed a 2005 or, if the meeting shall be To re-appoint Mr H V L Therman as adjourned, members must be entered voting service provider s, to procure that a director.
his CREST sponsor or voting service on the Companys register of members at 6 p. m. two days prior to the provider s take s such action as shall be Resolution 7 necessary to ensure that a message is adjourned meeting.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP transmitted by means of the CREST as auditors.
CREST members who wish to appoint a system by any particular time.
In this proxy or proxies through the CREST Resolution 8 connection, CREST members and, where electronic proxy appointment service may To authorise the Board to set the applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting do so for the Annual General Meeting to remuneration of the auditors.
service providers are referred, in particular, be held on 28 April 2005 and any to those sections of the CREST Manual Resolution 9 adjournment s thereof by using the concerning practical limitations of the To renew the directors allotment procedures described in the CREST CREST system and timings.
CREST Personal Members or The Company may treat as invalid a other CREST sponsored members, and Resolution 10 those CREST members who have CREST Proxy Instruction in the To authorise non-pre-emptive issues of circumstances set out in Regulation appointed a voting service Provider s, ordinary shares in limited circumstances.
should refer to their CREST sponsor or 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Resolution 11 Regulations 2001. voting service provider s, who will be To renew the authority for market able to take the appropriate action on The following documents are available for purchases of the Companys shares.
"inspection at the Registered Ofce of the Formal notice of Resolutions 9 to 11, Company during normal business hours In order for a proxy appointment or together with an explanation, is contained instruction made using the CREST service and on the day of the meeting at the in the Circular Letter to shareholders place of the meeting from 15 minutes to be valid, the appropriate CREST dated 11 March 2005 which message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" prior to the meeting until its conclusion: accompanies the Report and Accounts."
must be properly authenticated in i the register of directors share interests accordance with CRESTCos specications By Order of the Board kept pursuant to Section 325 of the and must contain the information required Companies Act 1985: and Peter Kennerley for such instructions, as described in the ii copies of all contracts of service under Secretary CREST Manual.
The message, regardless which directors are employed by the 33 Ellersly Road of whether it constitutes the appointment Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Edinburgh of a proxy or an amendment to the EH12 6HX instruction given to a previously appointed 23 February 2005 proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments
