Accounts 2003 04 Accounts 2003 04 Accounting Policies and Definitions 85 Group Balance Sheet 94 Group Profit and Loss Account 90 Notes to the Group Accounts 95 Statement of Total Recognised Company Balance Sheet 144 Gains and Losses 92 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet 145 Note of Historical Cost Profits and Losses 92 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings Reconciliation of Movements in and Other Investments 146 Shareholders Funds 92 Independent Auditors Report 147 Group Cash Flow Statement 93 Five Year Summary 148 Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow Glossary of Financial Terms and to Movement in Net Debt 93 US Equivalents 149 transmission systems of Northern Ireland, England & Wales and ccounting Policies and Definitions the remainder of Scotland.
Definitions A Business segment definitions United States ScottishPower defines business segments for management PacifiCorp A  electric utility that includes reporting purposes based on a combination of factors, principally the generation, transmission and distribution and sale of differences in products and services and the regulatory electricity to retail, industrial and commercial customers in environment in which the businesses operate.
portions of six western states: Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Business segments have been included under either Washington, Idaho and California.
The operations also include continuing operations or discontinued operations as appropriate.
wholesale sales and power purchase transactions with various entities.
The state regulatory commissions and Federal Energy The business segments of the group are defined as follows: Regulatory Commission FERC regulate the retail and wholesale operations.
The subsidiaries of PacifiCorp support its Continuing operations electric utility operations by providing coal mining facilities and United Kingdom services and environmental remediation.
UK Division Integrated Generation and Supply The generation of electricity from the groups own power stations, the purchase PPM The competitive energy development, origination and of external supplies of coal and gas for the generation of marketing business serving wholesale customers in North electricity, the purchase of external supplies of electricity and gas American markets.
Electricity products and services are provided for sale to customers, together with related billing and collection from gas generation and renewable wind generation resources activities, gas storage, sale of gas to industrial and domestic located in the western and mid-western US.
Natural gas storage customers and the sale of electricity to electricity suppliers, in and hub services are provided from gas storage facilities located Scotland and England & Wales and full participation in the New in Alberta, Canada and in Texas.
Electricity Trading Arrangements NETA in England & Wales.
Discontinued operations Infrastructure Division Power Systems The transmission and United Kingdom distribution businesses within the groups authorised area of Southern Water The provision of water and wastewater services Scotland and the distribution business of Manweb operating in in the south east of England, together with related billing and Merseyside and North Wales and the transportation of units of collection activities.
The disposal of the Southern Water business electricity through the interconnectors connected to the was completed on 23 April 2002.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 85 Accounts 2003 04 Thus The provision of telecommunications services, internet Accounting Policies access and information services to national corporates, small and Basis of accounting medium-sized enterprises and residential customers.
Thus Group The Accounts have been prepared under the historical cost plc Thus was demerged from ScottishPower on 19 March convention, modified to include the revaluation of certain 2002. tangible fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the UK and, except for the accounting Appliance Retailing The retailing and servicing of domestic policy for Commodity contracts, described below, comply with electrical goods and home entertainment appliances.
The the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Further details business was disposed of and withdrawn from during the year explaining this departure are contained in Note 20 i to the ended 31 March 2002.
Revenue cost definitions Basis of consolidation Cost of sales The cost of sales for the group, excluding Southern The group Accounts include the Accounts of the company and its Water, reflect the direct costs of the generation and purchase of subsidiary undertakings together with the groups share of results electricity, the purchase and transportation of natural gas, and net assets of associated undertakings and joint ventures.
appliance retailing and telecommunications services.
For For commercial reasons certain subsidiaries have a Southern Water, cost of sales represented the cost of extracting different year end.
The consolidation includes the Accounts of water from underground and raw water surface reservoirs and of these subsidiaries as adjusted for material transactions in the its treatment and supply to customers and the collection of period between the year ends and 31 March.
wastewater and its treatment and disposal.
Use of estimates Transmission and distribution costs The cost of transmitting The preparation of Accounts in conformity with generally units of electricity from the power stations through the accepted accounting principles requires management to make transmission and distribution networks to customers.
It includes estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of the costs of metering, billing and debt collection.
This heading is assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and considered more appropriate to the electricity industry than the liabilities at the date of the Accounts and the reported amounts of standard Companies Act heading of distribution costs.
revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results can differ from those estimates.
Administrative expenses The indirect costs of businesses, the costs of corporate services, property rates and goodwill Turnover amortisation.
Turnover comprises the sales value of energy, goods and other services supplied to customers during the year and excludes Other definitions Value Added Tax and intra-group sales.
Turnover from the sale of Company or ScottishPower Scottish Power plc.
energy is the value of units supplied during the year and includes an estimate of the value of units supplied to customers between Group Scottish Power plc and its consolidated subsidiaries.
the date of their last meter reading and the year end, based on external data supplied by the electricity and gas market Associated undertakings Entities in which the group holds a settlement processes.
Prior to the disposal of Southern Water in long-term participating interest and exercises significant April 2002, turnover also included the sales value of water and influence.
Joint ventures Entities in which the group holds a long-term Interest interest and shares control with another company external to the Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is group.
capitalised gross of tax relief during the period of construction and written off as part of the total cost over the operational life of Subsidiary undertakings Entities in which the group holds a the asset.
All other interest payable and receivable is reflected in long-term controlling interest.
the profit and loss account as it arises.
Financial instruments Debt instruments All borrowings are stated at the fair value of consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
The issue costs and interest payable on bonds are charged to the profit and loss account at a constant rate over the life of the bond.
Premiums and discounts arising on the early repayment of 86 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 borrowings are recognised in the profit and loss account as expected future cash flows from these contracts.
Commodity contracts Where there is no physical delivery Interest rate swaps Forward rate agreements These are used to associated with commodity contracts, they are recorded at fair manage debt interest rate exposures.
Amounts payable or receivable value on the balance sheet and movements reflected through the in respect of these agreements are recognised as adjustments to profit and loss account.
Gas future contracts are undertaken for interest expense over the period of the contracts.
The cash flows hedging and proprietary trading purposes.
Where the instrument from, and gains and losses arising on terminations of, these is a hedge, the fair values are initially reflected on the balance contracts are recognised as returns on investments and servicing of sheet and subsequently reflected through the profit and loss finance.
Where associated debt is not retired in conjunction with account to match the recognition of the hedged item.
Where the the termination of an interest swap, gains and losses are deferred instrument is for proprietary trading the fair values are reflected and are amortised to interest expense over the remaining life of the through the profit and loss account.
Recognition of unrealised associated debt to the extent that such debt remains outstanding.
gains on commodity contracts in the profit and loss account is not in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act Interest rate caps Swaptions Options Premiums received and 1985.
The directors consider that compliance with these payable on these contracts are amortised over the period of the requirements would lead to the accounts failing to give a true and contracts and are disclosed as interest income and expense.
The fair view of the results of the group.
Further details of the effect of accounting for interest rate caps and swaptions is otherwise in this accounting policy are provided in Note 20 i to the Accounts.
accordance with interest rate swaps detailed above.
Taxation Cross currency interest rate swaps These are used both to hedge In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred foreign exchange and interest rate exposures arising on foreign tax, full provision is made for deferred tax on a non-discounted currency debt and to hedge overseas net investment.
to hedge debt issues, the debt is recorded at the hedge contracted rate and accounting is otherwise in accordance with interest rate Goodwill swaps detailed above.
Where used to hedge overseas net Purchased goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the investment, spot gains or losses are recorded on the balance sheet purchase consideration over the fair value of the net assets and in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, with acquired.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to 31 March interest recorded in the profit and loss account.
The cash flows 1998 was written off against reserves.
On disposal of trading from, and gains and losses arising on the termination, repricing or entities, the goodwill previously included in reserves is charged to maturity of, cross currency interest rate swaps hedging overseas the profit and loss account matched by an equal credit to net investments are recognised as returns on investments and reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 April 1998 has servicing of finance to the extent they relate to interest and as been capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss financing to the extent they represent spot gains or losses.
account over its estimated useful economic life.
Goodwill arising on overseas acquisitions is regarded as a currency asset and is Forward contracts The group enters into forward contracts for retranslated at the end of each period at the closing rate of the purchase and or sale of foreign currencies in order to manage exchange.
its exposure to fluctuations in currency rates and to hedge overseas net investment.
The cash flows from forward purchase Tangible fixed assets contracts are classified in a manner consistent with the Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation and are underlying nature of the hedged transaction.
Hence, unrealised generally depreciated on the straight line method over their gains and losses on contracts hedging forecast transactions are estimated operational lives.
Tangible fixed assets include not accounted for until the maturity of the contract.
Foreign capitalised employee, interest and other costs which are directly currency debtors and creditors that are hedged with forward attributable to construction of fixed assets.
contracts are translated at the contracted rate at the balance Land is not depreciated except in the case of mines see sheet date.
Spot gains or losses on hedges of the overseas net below.
The main depreciation periods used by the group are as investments are recorded on the balance sheet and in the set out below.
Years statement of total recognised gains and losses with the interest Coal, oil-fired, gas and other generating stations 22 45 rate differential reflected in the profit and loss account.
Hydro plant and machinery 20 100 Other buildings 40 Hydroelectric and temperature hedges These instruments are Transmission and distribution plant 20 75 used to hedge fluctuations in weather and temperature in the US.
Towers, lines and underground cables 40 60 On a periodic basis, the group estimates and records a gain or Vehicles, computer software costs, miscellaneous equipment and fittings 3 40 loss in the profit and loss account corresponding to the total ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 87 Accounts 2003 04 The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed Own shares held under trust for impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances Own shares held under trust have been deducted in arriving at indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For those shareholders funds in accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force assets with estimated remaining useful economic lives of more Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts UITF 38.
Purchases than 50 years, impairment reviews are undertaken annually.
and sales of own shares are disclosed as changes in shareholders Impairment losses are recognised in the period in which they are funds.
Previously own shares were presented as fixed asset identified.
The effect of this change in accounting policy on the net assets for the previous financial year is disclosed in Note 17.
Mine reclamation and closure costs Provision is made for mine Comparative figures have been restated in the Balance Sheet, Cash reclamation and closure costs when an obligation arises out of Flow Statement and related Notes.
The implementation of UITF 38 events prior to the year end.
The amount recognised is the present had no impact on the groups previously reported profits and losses.
value of the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance Revised UITF 17 Employee share schemes Revised with local conditions and requirements.
A corresponding tangible UITF 17 has also been adopted in the year, which requires that fixed asset is also created of an amount equal to the provision.
This the profit and loss account charge be determined as the intrinsic asset, together with the cost of the mine, is subsequently depreciated value of the share options granted.
Previously this charge was on a unit of production basis.
The unwinding of the discount is based on either the intrinsic value or, where purchases of shares included within net interest and similar charges.
were made by an ESOP trust at fair value, by reference to the cost of shares available for the award less any contributions payable Decommissioning costs Provision is made for the estimated by the employees.
The implementation of Revised UITF 17 had decommissioning costs at the end of the producing lives of the no impact on the groups previously reported profits and losses.
groups power stations on a discounted basis.
Capitalised The group has taken advantage of the exemption within decommissioning costs are depreciated over the useful lives of UITF Abstract 17 not to apply its requirements to Inland Revenue the related assets.
The unwinding of the discount is included approved savings-related share option schemes and equivalent within net interest and similar charges.
Leased assets Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP As lessee Assets leased under finance leases are capitalised and Shares in the company purchased for the LTIP are held under depreciated over the shorter of the lease periods and the trust.
The cost of awards made by the trust under the LTIP, being estimated operational lives of the assets.
The interest element of the difference between the fair value of the shares and the option the finance lease repayments is charged to the profit and loss price at the date of grant, is taken to the profit and loss account account in proportion to the balance of the capital repayments on a straight line basis over the period in which performance is outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged measured.
to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
Stocks As lessor Rentals receivable under finance leases are allocated to Stocks are valued at the lower of average cost and net realisable accounting periods to give a constant periodic rate of return on value.
the net cash investment in the lease in each period.
The amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded in the balance US regulatory assets sheet as a debtor at the amount of the net investment in the lease Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.
71 Accounting after making provisions for bad and doubtful rentals receivable.
for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation FAS 71 establishes US GAAP for utilities in the US whose regulators Investments have the power to approve and or regulate rates that may be Investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint charged to customers.
FAS 71 provides that regulatory assets may ventures are stated in the balance sheet of the parent company at be capitalised if it is probable that future revenue in an amount at cost, or nominal value of shares issued as consideration where least equal to the capitalised costs will result from the inclusion of applicable, less provision for any impairment in value.
The group that cost in allowable costs for ratemaking purposes.
Due to the profit and loss account includes the groups share of the different regulatory environment, no equivalent GAAP applies in operating profits less losses, net interest charge and taxation of the UK.
associated undertakings and joint ventures.
The group balance Under UK GAAP, the groups policy is to recognise sheet includes the investment in associated undertakings and regulatory assets established in accordance with FAS 71 only joint ventures at the groups share of their net assets.
Other fixed where they comprise rights or other access to future economic asset investments are carried at cost less provision for impairment benefits which have arisen as a result of past transactions or in value.
events which have created an obligation to transfer economic benefits to a third party.
Measurement of the past transaction or 88 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 event and hence the regulatory asset, is determined in Foreign currencies accordance with UK GAAP.
Group The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries are translated to sterling at the average rate of exchange for each Grants and contributions quarter of the financial year.
The net assets of such subsidiaries Capital grants and customer contributions in respect of additions and the goodwill arising on their acquisition are translated to to fixed assets are treated as deferred income and released to the sterling at the closing rates of exchange ruling at the balance profit and loss account over the estimated operational lives of the sheet date.
Exchange differences which relate to the translation of related assets.
overseas subsidiaries and of matching foreign currency borrowings and derivatives are taken directly to group reserves Pensions and are shown in the statement of total recognised gains and The group provides pension benefits through both defined benefit losses.
The regular cost of providing pensions and related benefits and any variations from Company Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the regular cost arising from the actuarial valuations for defined rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
At the year end, benefit schemes are charged to the profit and loss account over monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies the expected remaining service lives of current employees are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet following consultations with the actuary.
Any difference between date or, where applicable, at the hedged contracted rate.
Any gain the charge to the profit and loss account and the actual or loss arising on the restatement of such balances is taken to the contributions paid to the pension schemes is included as an asset profit and loss account.
or liability in the balance sheet.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged against profits as incurred.
Exchange rates The exchange rates applied in the preparation of the Accounts Post-retirement benefits other than pensions were as follows: Year ended 31 March Certain additional post-retirement benefits, principally healthcare 2004 2003 2002 benefits, are provided to eligible retirees within the groups US Average rate for quarters ended: businesses.
The estimated cost of providing such benefits is 30 June $1.62 $1.46 $1.42 charged against profits on a systematic basis over the employees 30 September $1.61 $1.55 $1.44 working lives within the group.
31 December $1.71 $1.57 $1.44 31 March $1.84 $1.60 $1.43 Environmental liabilities Provision for environmental liabilities is made when expenditure Closing rate as at 31 March $1.84 $1.58 $1.42 on remedial work is probable and the group is obliged, either legally or constructively through its environmental policies, to A glossary of terms used in the Accounts and their US undertake such work.
Where the amount is expected to be equivalents is set out on page 149. incurred over the long-term, the amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure and the unwinding of the discount is included within net interest and similar charges.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 89
