Investor Information Investor Information 1 Investor Information 2 Financial Calendar 3 Shareholder Services Table 48 Historical Share Prices Investor Information Ordinary shares American Depositary Shares Period High p Low p High $ Low $ Nature of Trading Market 1 The principal trading market for the ordinary shares of 1999 00 586.70 350.66 38.88 22.50 ScottishPower is the London Stock Exchange.
In addition, 2000 01 561.83 411.62 34.69 25.06 American Depositary Shares ADSs each of which represents 2001 02 521.84 350.00 30.24 20.10 four ordinary shares have been issued by JPMorgan Chase 2002 03 Bank, as depositary the Depositary for the companys ADSs, First quarter 416.00 342.00 24.28 20.40 and are traded on the New York Stock Exchange following Second quarter 384.00 298.75 23.95 19.53 listing on 8 September 1997.
Third quarter 373.00 336.00 23.42 21.00 Table 48 sets out, for the periods indicated, the highest Fourth quarter 388.00 330.75 24.25 21.55 and lowest middle market quotations for the ordinary shares, as derived from Datastream and the range of high and low closing 2003 04 sale prices for ADSs, as reported by Bloomberg.
The prices First quarter 395.25 360.00 25.76 23.59 shown for previous years have been adjusted, where appropriate, Second quarter 374.75 351.00 24.76 22.93 for capital issues.
The combined holdings of these December 2003 372.75 356.50 27.18 25.02 shareholders represented 15.51% of the total number of ordinary January 2004 374.00 354.00 27.30 26.25 shares outstanding as at 31 March 2004.
UK registered February 2004 366.50 350.75 27.98 26.62 shareholders held 83.62% of the total number of ordinary March 2004 380.75 363.75 28.58 26.90 shares, and all shareholders other than those registered in the UK or the US held 0.87% of the total number of ordinary shares Note: outstanding as at 31 March 2004.
As certain of the ordinary The past performance of the ordinary shares ADSs is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
shares and ADSs are held by brokers and other nominees, these numbers may not be representative of the actual number of beneficial owners in the US or elsewhere or the number of ordinary shares or ADSs beneficially held by US persons.
150 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 Table 49 Analysis of Ordinary Shareholdings at 31 March 2004 Number Percentage of of shares issued share capital Range of No.
Total 450,0371,859,538,923 Control of Company Share Capital and Options As far as is known to the company, it is not directly or indirectly As a result of the issue of shares to the Trustee of the Employee owned or controlled by another corporation or by any foreign Share Ownership Plan and the exercise of options under the government.
PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan, a total of 3,606,121 ordinary As at 20 May 2004, no person known to the company, shares of 50p each were issued during the year.
Accordingly, the other than the substantial shareholders shown above, owned number of ordinary shares in issue was 1,859,538,923 as at 31 more than 5% of any class of the groups voting securities.
During the year, options over 2,758,331 ordinary As at 20 May 2004, the total amount of voting securities shares were granted to 1,901 employees under the owned by directors and executive officers of ScottishPower as a ScottishPower Sharesave Scheme.
Options over a total of group is shown in Table 50 below.
5,892,280 ordinary shares were granted under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001.
No options were granted under the Table 50 Voting Securities Title of class Amount Percentage PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan during the year.
No options identity of group owned of class were granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme, which Ordinary shares was replaced in 1996 by the introduction of the Long Term Directors and officers Incentive Plan the Plan.
Awards in respect of 1,100,213 19 persons 1,978,243 0.11% shares were made under the Plan during the year and these awards are subject to the achievement of specified performance Full details of the directors interests in ScottishPower shares are criteria.
Details are contained in the Remuneration Report.
shown in Tables 46 and 47 in the Remuneration Report.
None of Between 31 March 2004 and 20 May 2004, a further the officers had a beneficial interest in 1% or more of the issued 458,536 ordinary shares have been issued as a result of the allotments in respect of the Employee Share Ownership Plan share capital.
and the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan.
At the Annual General In addition, as at 20 May 2004, the directors and officers Meeting of the company last year, shareholders granted of the company, as a group, held options to purchase 4,911,768 authority to the directors to purchase up to 185,615,798 ordinary ordinary shares, all of which were issued pursuant to the shares.
The directors have not exercised this authority.
Executive Share Option Scheme, Executive Share Option Plan 2001, ScottishPowers Sharesave Schemes or the PacifiCorp Redemption of Special Share Stock Incentive Plan.
Following consultation with the company, the Secretary of State The company does not know of any arrangements the for Scotland has exercised his option to redeem the special rights operation of which might result in a change in control of the group.
non-voting redeemable preference share of 1 in the capital of the company the Special Share at par in accordance with the Exchange Rates companys articles of association the Articles.
The Special The group publishes its consolidated Accounts in pounds sterling.
Share was issued at the time of privatisation and entitled the In this document, references to pounds sterling, pounds, pence holder to certain special rights under the Articles.
The or p are to UK currency and references to US dollars, US$ or redemption was effected on 5 May 2004, as announced by the $ are to US currency.
Solely for the convenience of the reader, this company at the time.
It is proposed that the Articles be amended report contains translations of certain pounds sterling amounts into to reflect the redemption at this years Annual General Meeting.
US dollars at specified rates, or, if not so specified, at the Noon Buying Rate sourced from Datastream Noon Buying Rate on 31 Substantial Shareholdings March 2004 of 1.00 $1.84.
On 20 May 2004, the Noon Buying As at 20 May 2004, the company had been notified that the Rate was $1.77 to 1.00.
No representation is made that the pound following companies were substantial shareholders: sterling amounts have been, could have been or could be converted into US dollars at the rates indicated or at any other rates.
ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 151 Investor Information Table 51 sets out, for the periods indicated, certain reporting and the quarterly payment of dividends.
information concerning the Noon Buying Rate for US dollars A dividend of 6.25 pence per share on the ordinary shares per 1.00. will be paid on 28 June 2004 to shareholders on the register on 4 June 2004.
This makes total dividends for the year of 20.5 pence Table 51 Historical Exchange Rates per share.
A dividend of $0.4453 per ADS will also be paid on 28 1 Period High Low Average Year end June 2004 to ADS holders of record on 4 June 2004.
This makes total dividends for the year of $1.4165 per ADS.
ScottishPower has aimed to grow dividends broadly in line with earnings thereafter.
October 2003 $1.7025 $1.6598 $1.6786 To implement this policy, in the absence of unforeseen November 2003 $1.7219 $1.6693 $1.6902 circumstances, ScottishPower intends to pay an identical December 2003 $1.7842 $1.7200 $1.7526 dividend for each of the first three quarters of each year, with the January 2004 $1.8511 $1.7842 $1.8224 dividend for the fourth quarter representing the balance of the February 2004 $1.9045 $1.8182 $1.8659 total dividend for each year.
In respect of each of the quarters March 2004 $1.8680 $1.7943 $1.8261 ending 30 June 2004, 30 September 2004 and 31 December 1 Note: The average of the Noon Buying Rates on the last day of each month during 2004, ScottishPower aims to declare a dividend of 4.95 pence the relevant period.
Dividends Table 52 sets out the dividends paid on ordinary shares Although dividends were historically declared and paid and and ADSs in respect of the past five financial years, excluding financial reports published semi-annually, following completion any associated UK tax credit in respect of such dividends.
Dividends paid by the Depositary in respect of ADSs are paid in US dollars based on a market rate of exchange that differs from the Noon Buying Rate.
2 Calculated based on a ratio of four ordinary shares for one ADS.
152 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 dividend from the company is generally entitled to a tax credit, are subject to any changes occurring after that date in UK or US currently at a rate of 1 9th of the dividend associated UK tax law or practice, in the interpretation thereof by the relevant credit.
For further information, see Taxation of Dividends.
taxation authorities, or in any double taxation convention between the US and the UK.
Memorandum and Articles of Association On 24 July 2001, the US and the UK signed a new The companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, and convention between the two countries for the avoidance of amendments, will be filed with the companys report to the US double taxation with respect to taxes on income and capital Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 20-F. gains the New Income Tax Convention.
Instruments of ratification with respect to the New Income Tax Convention Documents on Display were exchanged on 31 March 2003, putting the New Income Tax You may read and copy documents referred to in this annual Convention into force as from that date, subject to certain report that have been filed with the SEC at the SECs public effective date provisions that result in the delayed reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, N. W. Washington, implementation of certain provisions.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further It is possible, however, for an investor to elect that the information on the public reference rooms and their copy rules of the treaty in force prior to 1 April 2003 the Expiring charges.
You may also access our reports to the SEC and some of Income Tax Convention have effect in its entirety with respect the other information we file with or submit to the SEC to that investor for a further twelve-month period from the date electronically through the SECs website at www.
on which the provisions of the New Income Tax Convention would otherwise be effective.
Prior distributions by the company Exchange Controls and Other Limitations Affecting Security since publication of our last annual statement on 7 May 2003 Holders may therefore be governed by the rules of either the Expiring There are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations that Income Tax Convention or the New Income Tax Convention restrict the export or import of capital, including, but not limited depending upon whether an investor has elected for the twelveto, foreign exchange capital restrictions, or that affect the month extension in respect of the Expiring Income Tax remittance of dividends or other payments to non-UK resident Convention.
As a result, the following discussion considers both holders of the companys securities except as otherwise set forth alternatives.
The company believes, and the discussion therefore in Taxation.
assumes, that it is not a passive foreign investment company for There are no limitations imposed by UK law or by the US federal income tax purposes.
companys Memorandum and Articles of Association that Each investor is urged to consult their own tax advisor restrict the right of non-UK resident or non-UK citizen owners regarding the tax consequences of the purchase, ownership and to hold or to vote the ordinary shares.
disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs under the laws of the US, the UK and their constituent jurisdictions and any other Taxation jurisdiction where the investor may be subject to tax.
The following discussion of UK tax and US federal income tax If the obligations contemplated by the Deposit Agreement consequences is set forth with respect to US tax considerations are performed in accordance with its terms, it is expected that a in reliance upon the advice of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & beneficial owner of ADSs will be treated as the owner of the McCloy LLP, special US counsel to the company, and with underlying ordinary shares for the purposes of the Expiring respect to UK tax considerations in reliance upon the advice of Income Tax Convention, the New Income Tax Convention and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, the companys UK lawyers.
The the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended Code.
discussion is intended only as a summary of the principal US For the purposes of this summary, the term US Holder federal income tax and UK tax consequences to investors who means a beneficial owner of the ADSs that is a US citizen or hold the ADSs or ordinary shares as capital assets and does not resident, a US domestic corporation or partnership, a trust purport to be a complete analysis or listing of all potential tax subject to the control of a US person and the primary consequences of the purchase, ownership and disposition of supervision of a US court, or an estate, the income of which is ADSs or ordinary shares.
The summary does not discuss special subject to US federal income tax regardless of its source.
tax rules that may be applicable to certain classes of investors, For the purposes of this summary, the term Eligible US including banks, insurance companies, tax exempt entities, Holder means a US holder that is a resident of the US for the dealers, traders who elect to mark-to-market, investors with a purposes of the Expiring Income Tax Convention and that functional currency other than the US dollar, persons who hold satisfies the following conditions: ADSs as part of a hedge, straddle or conversion transaction, or holders of 10% or more of the voting stock of the company.
The is not also resident in the UK for UK tax purposes: statements of UK and US tax laws and practices set out below is not a corporation which, alone or together with one or are based on the laws in force and as interpreted by the relevant more associated corporations, controls, directly or indirectly, taxation authorities as of the date of this report.
The statements 10% or more of the voting stock of the company: ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 153 Investor Information whose holding of the ADSs is not attributable to a permanent tax rate on the cash dividend received.
establishment in the UK through which such holder carries An Eligible US Holder is not required to affirmatively on a business or with a fixed base in the UK from which such make a claim to the UK Inland Revenue to be entitled to the US holder performs independent personal services: and foreign tax credit, although an Eligible US Holder electing to under certain circumstances, is not a company 25% or more claim the credit must complete an Internal Revenue Service of the capital of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by Form 8833 Treaty Based Return Position Disclosure and file persons that are neither individual residents of, nor nationals such Form with the holders US federal income tax return for of the US.
each year that the tax credit is claimed.
Eligible US Holders that include the amount of the UK tax credit in gross income, but do Taxation of Dividends not elect to claim foreign tax credits may instead claim a Save as set out below in relation to the UK withholding tax deduction for UK withholding tax deemed paid.
For foreign tax applied to the UK tax credit as defined below arising under the credit limitation purposes, the dividend grossed-up to include Expiring Income Tax Convention, the company is not required the UK tax deemed paid will be income from sources outside to withhold any UK taxes from its dividend payments to US the US.
Each investor is urged to consult their own tax advisor Holders.
Therefore the amount of a dividend paid to a US regarding the tax consequences of electing to apply the Expiring Holder will not be reduced by any UK withholding tax.
Income Tax Convention in lieu of the New Income Tax Under the New Income Tax Convention, US Holders are Convention and whether any filings or other actions may be not entitled to a UK tax credit with respect to dividends paid by required to substantiate an Eligible US Holders foreign tax the company on or after 1 May 2003.
effective date, an Eligible US Holder may continue to claim a Following is a simplified numerical example of the US UK tax credit with respect to dividends paid before 1 May 2004, tax treatment of dividends paid to an Eligible US Holder who is if the holder elects to apply all the provisions of the Expiring subject to tax at a rate of 15% and is eligible for and claims a US Income Tax Convention during such period.
Each investor is tax credit for the complete amount of the UK tax credit: $ urged to consult their own tax advisor regarding the tax Dividend received 90.00 consequences of electing to apply the Expiring Income Tax UK tax credit 10.00 Convention in lieu of the New Income Tax Convention.
US taxable income 100.00 If a US Holder elects for the twelve-month extension to US tax at 15% 15.00 apply the Expiring Income Tax Convention, then, under UK tax US tax credit for UK withholding tax 10.00 law and the Expiring Income Tax Convention, an Eligible US US tax liability 5.00 Holder that makes the appropriate election with respect to dividends paid before 1 May 2004 is in theory entitled to an Cash dividend received 90.00 US tax liability 5.00 additional payment from the UK UK tax credit equal to 1 9th of the amount of any dividend paid by the company to the After-tax cash amount 85.00 holder.
While, as noted above, the dividend paid by the company Approximate effective US tax rate on cash received 5.6% is not subject to any UK withholding tax, under the Expiring Income Tax Convention and under current UK law, the UK tax Note that the US federal income tax consequences of credit that otherwise would be payable by the UK is completely dividends paid to an Eligible US Holder will depend upon the offset by a UK withholding tax equal to 100% of that UK tax holders particular circumstances and, consequently, the US credit.
Accordingly, US Holders will receive the full amount of federal income tax consequences applicable to a particular any dividend declared by the company without deduction for holder may differ from those set out in the above example and UK tax but will not be entitled to an additional cash payment some US Holders may not be able to make full or partial use of from the UK in respect of the UK tax credit.
An Eligible US the UK tax credit.
Eligible US Holders are urged to consult their Holder who elects to claim a credit as described below against own tax advisers regarding the tax consequences to them of the the holders US federal income tax liability with respect to the payment of a dividend by the company.
UK withholding tax imposed on the UK tax credit amount, is The full procedures for determining and claiming a US required to include, in addition to the gross amount of the tax credit, with respect to dividends received from a UK dividend paid by the company, the amount of UK tax credit in corporation, are outlined in US Internal Revenue Service taxable income for US federal income tax purposes, even though Revenue Procedure 2000 13, 2000 6 I. R. B.
1. none of the amount of the UK tax credit is paid by the UK.
An A US Holder recognises income when the dividend is Eligible US Holder who so elects to include the amount of the actually or constructively received by the holder, in the case of UK tax credit in taxable income, generally will be entitled to ordinary shares, or by the Depositary, in the case of ADSs.
The credit against the holders US tax liability, the amount of the UK dividend will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction tax credit that the holder is deemed to have received, which US generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends tax credit may result in a reduction in the holders effective US received from other US corporations.
New tax legislation signed 154 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 into law on 28 May 2003, provides for a maximum 15% US tax tax.
With respect to sales occurring on or after 6 May 2003, but rate on the dividend income of an individual US holder with before 1 January 2009, the long-term capital gain tax rate for an respect to dividends paid by a domestic corporation or qualified individual US holder is 15%.
For sales occurring before 6 May foreign corporation.
A qualified foreign corporation generally 2003, or after 31 December 2008, the long-term capital gain rate includes a foreign corporation if i its shares are readily tradable for an individual US holder is 20%.
on an established securities market in the US or ii it is eligible A US Holder who is not resident or ordinarily resident for benefits under a comprehensive US income tax treaty.
Clause for UK tax purposes in the UK will not generally be liable for UK i will apply with respect to ADSs if such ADSs are readily tax on capital gains recognised on the sale or other disposition tradable on an established securities market in the US.
Under of ADSs or ordinary shares, unless the US Holder carries on a these rules, the company should be treated as a qualified foreign trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or corporation and, therefore, dividends paid to an individual US agency or, in the case of a company, a permanent holder with respect to the ADSs should be taxed at a maximum establishment and the ADSs or ordinary shares are, or have rate of 15%.
The maximum 15% tax rate is effective with respect been, used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, to dividends included in income during the period beginning on profession or vocation or such branch or agency or, in the case or after 1 January 2003, and ending 31 December 2008. of a company, such permanent establishment.
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and US citizens resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, US profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes, will corporations resident in the UK by reason of their business being be treated as a return of capital to the extent of the US Holders centrally managed or controlled in the UK and US citizens who basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as a capital or US corporations which are trading or carrying on a trade, gain.
In determining the amount of the distribution, a US Holder profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency will use the spot currency exchange rate on the date the dividend or, in the case of a company, a permanent establishment and is included in income.
Any difference between that amount and who or which have used, held or acquired ADSs or ordinary the dollars actually received may constitute a foreign currency shares for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation or gain or loss.
However, a US Holder that is an individual is not such branch or agency or, in the case of a company, such required to recognise a gain of less than $200 from the exchange permanent establishment may be liable for both UK and US tax of foreign currency in a personal transaction as defined in in respect of a gain on the disposal of the ADSs or ordinary Section 988 e of the Code.
shares, subject to any available exemption or relief.
Relief may be If the US Holder is a US partnership, trust or estate, the available under the New Income Tax Convention if the rules of UK tax credit will be available only to the extent that the income such convention have effect in respect of such US Holder at the derived by such partnership, trust or estate is subject to US federal time of the sale or other disposition of the ADSs or ordinary income tax as the income of a resident either in its hands or in the shares to the extent that the US Holder is resident in the US for hands of its partners or beneficiaries, as the case may be.
Whether the purposes of the New Income Tax Convention unless the holders of ADSs who reside in countries other than the US are ADSs or ordinary shares form part of the business property of a entitled to a tax credit in respect of dividends on ADSs depends in permanent establishment that such US Holder has or has had in general upon the provisions of conventions or agreements, if any, the UK.
Such holders may not be entitled to a tax credit against as may exist between such countries and the UK.
their US federal income tax liability for the amount of UK capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains, as Taxation of Capital Gains the case may be, paid in respect of such gain unless the holder In general, for US tax purposes, US Holders of ADSs will be appropriately can apply the credit against tax due on income treated as the owners of the underlying ordinary shares that are from foreign sources.
represented by such ADSs and deposits and withdrawals of US Holders are urged to consult their own tax advisors ordinary shares by US Holders in exchange for ADSs will not be regarding the tax consequences to them of a sale or other treated as a sale or other disposition for US federal income tax disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares.
Upon a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs, US Holders will recognise a gain or loss for US federal US Information Reporting and Backup Withholding income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference In general, information reporting requirements will apply to between the US dollar value of the amount realised and the US dividend payments or other taxable distributions in respect of Holders tax basis determined in US dollars in such ordinary ordinary shares or ADSs made within the US to a non-corporate shares or ADSs.
Generally, such gain or loss will be a long-term US person.
Accordingly, individual US Holders will receive an capital gain or loss if the US Holders holding period for such annual statement showing the amount of taxable dividends or ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
Any such gain or loss other reportable distributions paid to them during the year.
generally will be income from sources within the US for foreign Backup withholding will apply to such payments i if the tax credit limitation purposes.
Long-term capital gain for an holder or beneficial owner fails to provide an accurate taxpayer individual US Holder is generally subject to a reduced rate of identification number in the manner required by US law and ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 155 Investor Information applicable regulations, ii if there has been notification from the UK Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax Internal Revenue Service of a failure by the holder or beneficial In practice, no UK stamp duty need be paid on the acquisition or owner to report all interest or dividends required to be shown on transfer of ADSs provided that any instrument of transfer is its federal income tax returns or, iii in certain circumstances, if executed outside the UK and subsequently remains at all times the holder or beneficial owner fails to comply with applicable outside the UK.
An agreement to transfer ADSs will not, in certification requirements.
practice, give rise to a liability to stamp duty reserve tax.
In general, payment of the proceeds from the sale of Subject to certain exceptions, a transfer on sale of ordinary shares or ADSs to or through a US office of a broker is ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs will generally be subject to subject to both US backup withholding and information UK stamp duty at a rate of 0.5% rounded up, if necessary, to the reporting requirements, unless the holder or beneficial owner nearest 5 of the consideration given for the transfer.
Different rules apply to payments agreement to transfer such shares will normally give rise to a made outside the US through an office outside the US.
charge to UK stamp duty reserve tax at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration payable for the transfer, provided that stamp duty UK Inheritance Tax reserve tax will not be payable if stamp duty has been paid.
An individual who is domiciled in the US for the purposes of the Where such ordinary shares are later transferred to the convention between the US and the UK for the avoidance of Depositarys nominee, further stamp duty or stamp duty reserve double taxation with respect to estate and gift taxes Estate Tax tax will normally be payable at the rate of 1.5% rounded up, if Convention and who is not a national of the UK for the necessary, to the nearest 5 of the value of the ordinary shares purposes of the Estate Tax Convention will not generally be at the time of the transfer.
subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of the ADSs or ordinary A transfer of ordinary shares by the Depositary or its shares on the individuals death or on a gift of the ADSs or nominee to the relative ADS holder when the ADS holder is not ordinary shares during the individuals lifetime, unless the ADSs transferring beneficial ownership gives rise to a UK stamp duty or ordinary shares are part of the business property of a liability of 5 per transfer.
permanent establishment of the individual in the UK or pertain to a fixed base in the UK of an individual who performs independent Taxation of Thus Demerger Dividend in Specie personal services.
Special rules apply to ADSs or ordinary shares Information pertaining to the tax position of shareholders held in trust.
In the exceptional case where the shares are subject following the demerger of Thus can be obtained from the both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the Company Secretary at the companys registered office and from Estate Tax Convention generally provides for the tax paid in the the companys website: www.
UK to be credited against tax paid in the US.
156 ScottishPower Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04
