68 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shares held by category Shares held by category Shareholdings Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2004 of shareholder of shareholder % of total shareholders % of total ordinary shares Percentage Number of Percentage of total ordinary of ordinary 21 1 Number of shareholders shares shares Shareholdings shareholders % million % 2 1-499 57,871 59.0 11.3 3.3 500-999 22,882 23.3 15.7 4.6 1,000-4,999 15,714 16.0 24.7 7.2 5,000-9,999 630 0.6 4.2 1.2 10,000-49,999 496 0.5 10.3 2.9 50,000-99,999 151 0.2 10.4 3.0 Over 100,000 345 0.4 268.5 77.8 1 Individual and 1 Individual and joint accounts 91.5% joint accounts 13.4% 98,089 100.0 345.1 100.0 2 Others 8.5% 2 Others 86.6% Others e. g. insurance companies, nominee companies, banks, pension funds, other corporate bodies, limited and public limited companies.
Annual General Meeting Forward-looking statements 27 July 2004, at 2.30pm at the National Exhibition Centre, This document contains certain forward-looking statements with Birmingham respect to SevernTrents financial condition, results of operations and business and certain of Severn Trents plans and objectives with Registrars respect to these items.
Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, Worthing identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as West Sussex anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, expects, BN99 6DA believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates.
By their Telephone: 0870 600 3967 very nature forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to Severn Trent Plc events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Registered number: 2366619 Registered office: There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and 2297 Coventry Road developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied Birmingham B26 3PU by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are Telephone: 0121 722 4000 not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the group operates: changes in the regulatory and competition Shareview frameworks in which the group operates: the impact of legal or other www.
co. uk is a service offered by Lloyds TSB Registrars proceedings against or which affect the group: and changes in that enables you to check your holdings in many UK companies and interest and exchange rates.
helps you to organise your investments electronically.
You can register for this free portfolio service by logging onto All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this www.
co. uk and following a simple registration process.
document or made subsequently, which are attributable to Severn Trent or any other member of the group or persons acting on their Electronic proxy appointments behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred For this years Annual General Meeting you may, if you wish, register to above.
Severn Trent does not intend to update these forwardthe appointment of a proxy electronically by logging onto the looking statements.
You will need your voting reference numbers the three 8 digit numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Not an offer Alternatively if you have registered for a Shareview portfolio, log onto This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer any your portfolio at www.
co. uk and click on Company securities of Severn Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not Meetings.
Please note that any electronic communication that is soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or transfer such securities found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Securities may not be offered, sold or transferred in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption Crest members may appoint a proxy electronically via Lloyds TSB from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933 Registrars ID 7RA01.
THIS IS SEVERN TRENT Severn Trent Plc is a leading environmental services group Financial calendar providing water, waste and utility Announcement of results services.
We aim to increase The results of the group will normally be published at the following shareholder value by providing times: Interim results for the six months to 30 September November integrated solutions to Preliminary results for the year to 31 March June environmental problems: and by Report and accounts for the year to 31 March June grasping the growth opportunities Dividend payments created by new legislation and new Dividend payments in respect of the year ended 31 March 2004: requirements in the private and Interim dividend paid 6 April 2004 public sectors.
Proposed final dividend payable 1 October 2004 Firmly embedded in our corporate strategy is a commitment to corporate responsibility and sound financial management.
We are constantly looking at how best to provide the information our You can find out more about Severn Trent and the businesses within stakeholders need quickly and cost effectively.
We also seek to our group by visiting our websites.
You can find out more about Severn minimise the resources used wherever possible.
com provides information about the group, including Trent Plc and the businesses within If you are a shareholder you can do your bit.
If you currently our corporate responsibility activity and shareholder information.
our group by visiting our website receive the full Annual Report and Accounts why not consider switching to the Annual Review only?
You can still view or download You can find out about the products and services we offer by visiting www.
com a copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts on-line at our business sites: www.
You can also elect not to receive paper copies of the Annual Report and other shareholder www.
Instead you will receive an email containing a link to a www.
co. uk website, where electronic copies of the documents can be viewed www.
com Please call Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3967 to request the www.
com Annual Review only or to register for e-delivery.
com Annual Review 2004 Contents www.
co. uk You can view and download a copy of the groups 01 Financial highlights Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 02 Chairmans statement on our website at www.
com reports2004 04 Group Chief Executives review or request a copy free of charge by contacting us using 06 Core businesses at a glance the details on the back cover of this report.
08 Review of operations 15 Corporate responsibility 16 Financial review 18 Board of Directors 20 Directors report 25 Remuneration report 32 Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements 33 Independent auditors report to the members of Severn Trent Plc 34 Group profit and loss account 35 Balance sheets 36 Group cash flow statement 36 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 37 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 37 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 38 Notes to the financial statements 67 Five year summary 68 Shareholder information SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 For more information about Severn Trent Plc and its businesses see our website www.
com The paper used in the production of this report, Zanders Megamatt, is produced using chlorine free processes from 50% recycled pre and post consumer waste and 50% TCF pulps from plantations and sustainable forests.
In addition the printing process is taken into account this report is printed by Pillans and Waddies who operate an Environmental Management System certified to ISO 14001.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Severn Trent Plc 2297 Coventry Road Birmingham B26 3PU SEVERN TRENT PLC United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 121 722 4000 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 THIS IS SEVERN TRENT Severn Trent Plc is a leading environmental services group providing water, waste and utility services.
We aim to increase shareholder value by providing integrated solutions to environmental problems: and by grasping the growth opportunities created by new legislation and new requirements in the private and public sectors.
Firmly embedded in our corporate strategy is a commitment to corporate responsibility and sound financial management.
You can find out more about Severn Trent Plc and the businesses within our group by visiting our website www.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Contents You can view and download a copy of the groups 01 Highlights Annual Report and Accounts on our website at 02 Chairmans statement www.
com reports2004 or request a copy 04 Group Chief Executives review free of charge by contacting us using the details on 06 Core businesses at a glance the back cover of this report.
08 Summary review of operations 15 Corporate responsibility 16 Financial review 18 Board of Directors 20 Independent auditors statement 20 Summary Directors report 22 Summary profit and loss account 23 Summary group balance sheet 23 Summary group cash flow statement 24 Summary renumeration report 27 Shareholder information 1 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 HIGHLIGHTS DIVIDEND Final dividend of 29.27p bringing the total for the year to 47.04p GROUP TURNOVER Up 8.8% to 2,015.1m 1,852.0m GROUP PROFIT BEFORE INTEREST, TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Up 7.5% at 440.6m Goodwill amortisation 29.8 million and exceptional items of 11.6 million.
EARNINGS PER SHARE 53.5p 28.9p : before exceptional items and deferred tax 61.4p 58.1p CUSTOMER SERVICE AND QUALITY UKs top performing water and sewerage company in Ofwats 2002 2003 Overall Performance Assessment LEADERSHIP We hold market leadership positions in the UK waste market and in environmental testing in the US and the UK Group turnover Group profit before tax Earnings per share Dividends per share m before exceptional items before exceptional items pence m and deferred tax pence 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 1,566.6 1,681.6 1,794.3 1,852.0 2,015.1 338.7 221.7 233.3 225.2 242.8 92.8 61.0 63.2 58.1 61.4 45.00 45.00 45.90 45.90 47.04 2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Good full year results Increased overall profits from non-regulated businesses Severn Trent Water continues to outperform Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items up 7.5% at 440.6 million Goodwill amortisation 29.8 million and exceptional profits of 11.6 million.
Services delivered good profits in 2003 2004.
Severn Trent We have enhanced our dividend policy such Laboratories developed its capabilities in several new fields including that, barring unforeseen circumstances, full-year mould: Severn Trent Services benefited from the management dividends per share would be a minimum of actions taken in 2002 in the Water Purification business.
47.04p up to the end of the current review Reflecting our commitment to environmental leadership, Severn period in March 2005.
Trent was named as the leading utility in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the third consecutive year.
This is the first time that any utility has won this category three times in a row.
Group results Group turnover was 2,015 million, an increase of 8.8% over last year.
The turnover of the non-regulated businesses increased by 12.7% to 1,161 million, representing 54.8% of the Group total.
Business performance Turnover from water and sewerage increased by 4.2% to 957 Severn Trent produced a good performance in 2003 2004. million.
Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and Excluding the impact of exchange rates, turnover rose in all the core exceptional items was up 7.5% to 441 million.
The water and businesses of water, waste and laboratories.
We have worked hard to sewerage business was up by 3.8% to 338 million.
The Groups balance the expectations and needs of different parties employees, non-regulated businesses in total were up 18.1% to 123 million, customers, investors, regulators and communities.
Sound day-to-day representing some 27% of the Group total.
management is combined with a long-term commitment to sustainability.
Group profit before interest, tax and exceptional items was 411 million 385 million.
Group profit before interest and tax was Much of our management focus over the year has concerned the 422 million 344 million.
preparation of our draft and final AMP4 business plan for Ofwat, setting out our proposed investment plans for 2005-2010.
We are The Board is proposing a final dividend of 29.27 pence 28.56 pence confident in our ability to meet new targets for this period, just as to be paid on 1 October 2004.
This would give a total dividend for we are confident that we will continue to outperform our AMP3 the year of 47.04 pence, an increase of 2.5%.
It is the Boards regulatory contract.
In respect of 2002 2003 Severn Trent Water intention that for the period up to 31 March 2005, barring has the leading position in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment unforeseen circumstances, full year dividends per share would be OPA of water and sewerage companies.
Our charges are also a minimum of 47.04 pence.
among the lowest in the UK and, under current plans, will be the lowest by 2010.
For the period of AMP4 from 1 April 2005, the outcome of the AMP4 price review will be a critical input in the determination of the Whilst developing the future strategy of our regulated business we Groups dividend policy.
Accordingly, the Board intends to consider have pressed ahead with developing Biffa as one of the leading its dividend policy for the period from 1 April 2005 to 31 March waste management companies in the UK - the biggest event during 2010 following the finalisation of the AMP4 price review.
the year being the acquisition of the former Hales business.
Based on SSAP24, the Group expects a significant additional pension Severn Trent Water and Biffa are sharing expertise and technology charge in 2004 2005 that is provisionally estimated to be of the in wastewater disposal and energy generation: and Biffa is using order of around 30 million to 35 million net of amounts allocated Severn Trent facilities in its important integrated management to own work capitalised, with broadly around two thirds to three contract for Leicester City Council.
We expect such synergies to quarters of this amount expected to be attributable to Severn Trent create further opportunities in the future.
However, given the preliminary nature of these estimates it is 3 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 quite possible that the actual additional pension charge, as a result of Marisa Cassoni stepped down as a pension trustee, and we are these valuations, could be materially different from these estimates.
grateful for her valuable contribution during a time of change in See Financial Review pensions.
I would also like to thank Martin Flower for his continuing work as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Management and staff and as Senior Independent Director.
Robert Walker will reach retirement in February 2005, having completed nearly six years as Group Chief Executive.
His I am sad to say that I shall be standing down as Chairman as of contribution and legacy are considerable.
31 December 2004 after nearly nine years on the Board.
I expect my successor to be appointed well before then.
We are delighted that Roberts successor will be Colin Matthews who joined the Board as a non-executive director in October 2003.
Naturally, my thanks must also go to the staff of Severn Trent Colin has already had a distinguished career at Transco, British businesses all over the world.
Our continuing ability to meet our Airways and Hays where he has been Chief Executive for the last objectives and serve our stakeholders is due to their hard work, two years.
We are very fortunate to have secured a man of his commitment and levels of expertise.
talents as our leader for the next few years.
Outlook Alan Perelman will be retiring as Group Finance Director as of 31 Although the Group expects significant additional pension charges August 2004 and will be replaced by Mark Wilson currently Director in 2004 2005, we consider that, overall, our core businesses of Finance and Regulation in Severn Trent Water.
I would like to thank Severn Trent Water, Biffa and Laboratories in terms of experience, Alan for his dedicated service and wish him well in his retirement.
market position, financial strength and reputation provide a good platform for the future, with the Group well positioned to capitalise Brian Duckworth has decided to stand down as Managing Director on opportunities.
Clearly, the future will also bring challenges.
Sound of Severn Trent Water and from the Severn Trent Plc Board at the end management and cost control will therefore remain a key element in of August but he will continue as an employee of the group until he our strategy for consolidating our position as the UKs leading leaves in March 2005 thus ensuring his expertise is available to help integrated environmental services business and increasing complete the regulatory process for the AMP4 review.
served Severn Trent for 30 years with distinction and we thank him for his outstanding contributions to the group and the water industry, not just in the Midlands but nationally and internationally as well.
Three new non executive directors, Martin Houston, Colin Matthews and John Smith are already making a positive impact on the Boards work.
We were sorry to lose Eric Anstee following his appointment as Chief Executive of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
We thank David Arculus him for his contribution to the Boards work, not least as outgoing Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee.
John Smith took over chairmanship of the Audit Committee from Eric Anstee: the Environment Committee has been renamed the Corporate Responsibility Committee to give a truer reflection of its work, and from now on it will always be chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
The former chair, Derek Osborn, is still playing a leading role on that committee.
4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Group results are ahead of a year ago and our core businesses water, waste and laboratories are in good shape.
These three businesses accounted for 83% of Group revenues and over 90% of Group Operating Profit.
Turnover by business % of group total in 2003 2004 4 1 3 1 Water 45% 956.7m 2 Waste 30% 633.1m 3Services 18% 381.2m 2 4Others 7% 147.1m measured against the RPI Index.
We are on track to deliver all our Our aim is to establish Severn Trent as the capital investment obligations.
UKs leading supplier of environmental goods and services, and as a major provider of Our final business plan as submitted to Ofwat for the next five year environmental solutions to the large and period aims to achieve the right balance between customer and investor expectations.
Our ambition is to deliver noticeable service growing US market.
improvements to our customers whilst maintaining household bills that deliver value for money.
At the same time we aim to achieve appropriate financial returns to our investors all of this, of course, against a background of financial prudence and careful balance sheet management.
For the average bill our final business plan would mean an increase of 57 per household by 2009 2010 in real terms.
On the basis I am pleased to report a good all-round set of results for my last full of all the plans submitted to the Regulator, this would leave Severn year as Group Chief Executive.
Our success has been achieved by Trent with the lowest average household bill for any water and concentrating on our five strategic fundamentals: sewerage company by 2009 2010.
Giving priority resources and management attention to the core businesses of water, waste and laboratories Waste In terms of acquisitions, focusing significant attention on UK waste, We are now starting to see legislative and regulatory change with smaller or bolt on acquisitions in laboratories impacting on the way we handle and treat our waste.
Improving or disposing of underperforming assets Driving for cost reduction and operating efficiencies in all In the industrial commercial sector where the waste generated businesses represents 79% of the UKs total waste tonnage, tighter packaging Exploiting Group synergies, in areas like business-wide cross regulations are being implemented.
To help customers, Biffa has a selling initiatives, and better integrating the Groups purchasing, well established compliance scheme called Biffpack that has seen human resources and operating assets membership grow by 10% in the past year.
Water The Landfill Directive requires 65% of bio-degradable municipal Severn Trent has benefited from the price increase from December waste to be diverted from landfill by 2020.
Responsibility to ensure 2002s successful interim price determination IDoK and also from this happens has been assigned to each Waste Disposal Authority continuing efforts and initiatives to manage costs and control upward and 25 year PFI treatment and disposal contracts are now being let, pressures in the business.
with Biffa well placed to compete for them.
Water remains firmly on track to out-perform against its regulatory Biffa is well positioned to take advantage of these future contract for the current five year period and meet its own stretching opportunities, particularly now that the acquisition of Hales has targets.
On the operating expenditure front, were confident of firmly established Biffa as one of the largest integrated waste achieving 75 million of gross operating cost efficiencies by the final management companies in the UK.
Against this industry framework, Biffa has achieved a solid overall The business continues to deliver efficiencies against its 2 billion result, particularly in light of the uncertain economic background.
investment programme and were confident we will deliver average This reflects the strength of Biffas management and its integrated capital expenditure efficiencies of around 5% over the AMP3 period, Collection, Landfill and Special Waste business model.
5 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Services Outlook Excluding the impact of exchange rates, turnover and profit before The past years results have clearly benefited from a focused interest, tax and goodwill amortisation improved.
This satisfactory strategy, disciplined management and tight cost controls throughout result principally reflects the P&K mould testing acquisition in April the business and we are confident that we have the right platform last year, which has enhanced our core laboratories business and for the future.
also the significant management actions taken in 2002 2003 in our Water Purification Division to rationalise and improve the cost base As this is my last report as Group Chief Executive I must stress that and re-focus the business in growth segments.
everything Severn Trent has achieved has been made possible by the enthusiasm and skill of all my colleagues.
I shall miss them Severn Trent Laboratories continued to drive forward with its core greatly but I know they will give my successor the same excellence strategies of firstly, maximising the base business share in the and dedication which will serve the Group well in the future.
traditional, routine environmental testing areas by low cost, high quality service turnround and secondly, expanding into higher growth, more attractive new areas of testing such as mould, and specialist microbiology.
Our remaining US businesses, Water Purification and Operating Services, made significant strides over the year, probably the most progress of any of our businesses.
Robert Walker Group Chief Executive Water Purification particularly has made significant improvements.
This partly reflects the downsizing in 2002 and more effective IT systems and manufacturing processes, but most recently it reflects more aggressive and targeted sales efforts behind new and higher margin products and technologies.
The Operating Services business continues to strengthen.
Contract Operations has delivered organic growth in revenue and we believe this is now the third largest business of its type in the US.
The division is currently bidding on $200 million of new business potential in the next six months in addition to the recently signed $65 million Fresh Kills Landfill contract in New York.
Core Businesses We are confident that our core businesses of water, waste and laboratories are in fine shape to take the group forward.
They each share common characteristics of leadership, scale and low cost advantage: among the best management teams in each sector: consistent strong past performance and long-term opportunities for profitable growth.
6 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 CORE BUSINESSES AT A GLANCE Severn Trent generates revenues of 2.0 billion and employs over 15,000 people across the UK, US and Europe.
We are increasingly focused on the industrial and commercial sectors to help business customers meet environmental objectives.
Severn Trent Water provides essential water and Track record of outperforming sewerage services to around 3 million households regulatory contract.
It also provides products Strong management structures and and services to business customers in its region.
It has a good track record on service levels, gross Good account management for operating cost efficiencies and quality, and business customers.
Excellent customer service, quality and biodiversity record For further information please visit www.
Biffa is one of the UKs largest integrated waste Specialist fleet achieving high levels management businesses, providing collection, of fuel and operational efficiency.
landfill and special waste services to local Over 30 landfill sites with good authorities and industrial commercial clients.
geographic coverage and high It has around 90,000 customers, and an environmental standards.
infrastructure that includes 34 operational landfill Special waste solutions based on sites and 13 special waste treatment facilities.
It also has 11 operational facilities in Belgium.
Strong IT infrastructure delivering synergies and efficiencies.
For further information please visit www.
co. uk Good strategic partnerships in recycling LABORATORIES.
Severn Trent Laboratories STL is the largest Record of innovation and being at the environmental testing company in the world, forefront of new markets.
providing environmental analysis services in History of successful acquisitions and the US and the UK.
It has 31 laboratories and organic growth.
21 service centres in the US, and 4 laboratories Reputation for good customer service.
and 1 service centre in the UK.
Client list of leading US and UK companies For further information please visit www.
co. uk 7 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Performance highlights Outlook.
Turnover up 4.2% at 956.7 million In December 2004, Ofwat will announce the final determination.
Top-performing water and sewerage company in Ofwats of its AMP4 price review for the years 2005-2010.
Until this is latest Overall Performance Assessment finalised, there is some uncertainty about the outlook for all water.
Total AMP3 gross operating efficiencies of some 69 million, companies.
However, Severn Trent Water is well on track to 17 million more than Ofwat targets outperform Ofwats AMP3 targets for the five year period to.
Started 16 million programme to generate 13% 2004 2005.
It is also well positioned to benefit from the new of annual energy needs from renewable resources competition framework for large customers, which comes into operation for 2005..
Turnover up 23.9% at 633.1 million Legislation and taxation will drive demand in the UK for.
Acquisition of Hales strengthens position as one of the UKs alternative methods of waste disposal in the UK.
Aided by its largest waste management companies experience in Belgium, Biffa is in a strong position to capitalise.
Extended contracts with local authorities, working towards on this.
Its expertise in special waste will also help it use the achieving new recycling targets openings created by the Landfill Directive in the UK..
Boosted capacity to generate power from landfill gas to around 90MW in the UK.
In local currency, turnover in the US up some 8%, and in the The STL strategy to be a leader in high-end markets continues UK up 2% to present new opportunities in emerging markets such as indoor.
Acquisition of P&K, a microbiology business with a high profile air quality and mould, food microbiology, endocrine disrupters, in the growing market for indoor air quality testing in the US and perchlorate testing.
In the US, legislation concerning harbour.
Acquisition of Aerotech strengthens presence in south-western infrastructure and dredging cleanup also positions STL favourably US, and puts STL at forefront of markets for indoor air quality, for the high growth market of sediments analysis.
In the UK, EU food microbiology, and industrial hygiene legislation like the Water Framework Directive, the Groundwater.
Opening of new service centres in US extends Directive, and the Landfill Directive will create new openings geographical strength for growth.
For information on our other businesses visit the following websites: Severn Trent Retail Services www.
co. uk Severn Trent Services www.
com Severn Trent Utility Services www.
co. uk Severn Trent Water International www.
com Severn Trent Property www.
com Severn Trent Systems www.
com Charles Haswell and Partners www.
co. uk 8 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Performance SUMMARY REVIEW OF OPERATIONS In 2003 2004 turnover from water and sewerage services increased WATER by 4.2% to 956.7 million.
Contributing to this rise in turnover were the price increases resulting from the IDoK of December 2002, in Severn Trent Water achieved another which Ofwat allowed our request to raise prices by 2.1% above inflation from April 2003.
The IDoK increase benefited turnover by good performance in 2003 2004 some 19 million.
In addition increased consumption by metered building on the strong foundations customers during the dry hot Summer is estimated to have added some 2.5 million to turnover in the year.
we have put down in previous years.
Profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional We remain well positioned to items was up 3.8% to 337.9 million.
Goodwill amortisation was outperform our Ofwat targets for 1.3 million 0.1 million, and profit before interest, tax and exceptional items, was 336.6 million 325.4 million.
Including an the period 2000 to 2005. exceptional profit of 19.8 million from the sales of land and property, profit before tax and interest was 356.4 million 325.4 million.
Given its magnitude, the profit from the sale of fixed assets of 6.7 million was not treated as exceptional in 2002 2003.
There was an additional pension charge net of amounts allocated to own work capitalised of 1.8 million for water and sewerage to reflect the valuation of pension schemes see Financial Review pensions.
Outperforming the regulatory contract Our programme for delivering gross operating cost efficiencies, in line with Ofwats AMP3 targets for 2000-2005, continued to make good progress.
At 31 March 2004, total AMP3 gross operating cost efficiencies amounted to approximately 69 million, some 17 million more than our Ofwat target.
Turnover up 4.2% at In 2003 2004 we invested approximately 442 million in programmes to improve drinking water quality, the effluent from our sewage treatment works and a range of customer service 956.7m improvements.
We continued to deliver efficiencies against our investment programme of approximately 2 billion for the 5 year period.
Profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items up 3.8% at The 2005-2010 price review A critical activity in 2003 2004 was the preparation of our strategic business plan for AMP4, Ofwats fourth asset management plan 337.9m since privatisation, which covers investment and prices for the Goodwill amortisation 1.3 million and exceptional profits of 19.8 million.
In drawing up our business plan, we have had 9 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Levels of service Severn Trent Water is the UKs top performing water and sewerage company in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment to balance often conflicting pressures and expectations on price impact on the environment and communities of the Midlands.
levels and investor returns: environmental and customer service We support hundreds of projects across the region, all with a improvements: efficiency and operational risk.
Ofwat will make an sustainability agenda.
interim determination on AMP4 in August 2004, and a final determination in December.
Energy management is an important aspect of our commitment to environmental leadership.
In 2003 2004 we embarked on a 16 Water supply million programme that will enable us to generate 27 megawatts of Low Autumn rainfall in 2003 meant that the year was one of the power, more than 13% of our energy needs, through new CHP units.
As a result some of our reservoirs were less than 60% full at the start of winter.
However, we maintained water supply Outlook to all our customers.
The AMP4 pricing review is enormously important to the outlook for Severn Trent Water.
We are confident that the regulators In July 2003, we changed the way we collected data on water understand that Severn Trent has achieved significant efficiencies consumption by our customers: based on this and other new in its work but that further investment is still needed.
It is widely information we recalibrated our total leakage on the companys and understood that prices for customers will have to rise, but the customers pipes.
We worked with Ofwat to establish new leakage average household water bill in the Midlands will still be among targets for March 2005, and we have started to put in place the best value in the country.
improved monitoring systems to measure losses.
Our record against all the current AMP3 regulatory contract and Competition and commercial customers on Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment, combined with the The Water Act 2003, which came into force in November, set a opportunities that competition will create, gives us a good platform framework for introducing competition in the water industry for for the future.
business customers using more than 50 mega litres of water a year.
We look forward to the arrival of competition in 2005, and we are confident that we can offer an excellent product range and account management to business customers inside or outside our region.
Environment and community Corporate responsibility is firmly embedded in Severn Trents business, and we recognise that our work has a significant Each year Ofwat publishes a report Indeed we improved on it in CASE STUDY on the levels of service provided by 2003 2004.
OUTPERFORMING OUR SECTOR ON SERVICE water companies to their customers.
Two IT projects implemented in The report includes an Overall AND QUALITY 2003 2004 contributed to improved Performance Assessment OPA efficiency and customer service.
which compares companies Ofwats most recent Overall Performance The first uses mobile technology performance on measures like water to improve the efficiency of Severn Assessment for 2002 2003 showed Severn Trent supply, sewerage services, customer Trents mobile workforce, by service and environmental impact.
Water was the UKs top-performing water and delivering information such as job It is thus an extremely important sewerage company.
In 2003 2004 we have details, location maps, biodiversity gauge of the quality of service that plans, and health and safety maintained, and improved, the quality of our companies are delivering.
information direct to their laptop service to customers.
The most recent OPA was published computer.
in March 2004, and evaluated The second Integrated Customer companies performance in Experience or ICE improves 2002 2003.
We were delighted that customers experience when they the assessment showed Severn Trent phone our operations call centre.
Water to be the UKs top-performing Information from different systems is water and sewerage company, once presented to customer service agents our revised leakage targets had been in a single, intuitive format, enabling taken into account.
them to complete customer requests Although the assessment covers more quickly and efficiently.
New technology the previous year, we are confident Improving customer service and that we maintained the quality and efficiency by delivering information efficiency of the service we deliver.
direct to employees wherever they are working 10 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Performance SUMMARY REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Waste managements turnover increased by 23.9% to 633.1 million, WASTE benefiting from the contribution of Hales turnover.
Turnover in the UK rose to 573.9 million, an increase of 25.5%: Belgian turnover The two main stories in our Waste rose by 10.4% to 59.2 million.
Biffas profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 79.2 million, up business in 2003 2004 were the 16.6% on the previous year.
acquisition of Hales and the way that There was an exceptional charge for Hales integration costs of 10.9 million.
There was also an additional pension charge of 1.8 million legislation has continued to create for waste management to reflect the valuation of pension schemes see Financial Review pensions.
Profit before interest and tax was new opportunities in all areas of the 47.0 million.
business collection, landfill and On 19 June 2003 Biffa acquired Hales from RMC UK Limited for special waste.
The Hales acquisition approximately 126 million and paid approximately 15 million means that Biffa is now even better exclusive of VAT to ING to purchase vehicles and equipment used in the Hales business, being a total consideration of approximately 141 placed than previously to capitalise million excluding transaction costs.
Biffa targeted synergies of around on these new opportunities.
7.5 million per annum in terms of run rate from the integration of Hales.
The integration process has gone well and is now close to completion.
In 2003 2004, Hales contributed including synergies an estimated 10.4 million to waste managements profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Excluding the impact of acquisitions Hales 10.4 million, other acquisitions 0.2 million and of increased pension charges, waste managements profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was up by 3.7% compared to last year.
The results for the year include the cost of settling legal disputes and insurance credits of a broadly similar scale.
These items have been allocated to UK central costs so as to provide more comparable figures, year-on-year, for the three UK business units of Collection, Landfill and Special Waste.
Turnover up 23.9% at Collection Biffas Collection division works with around 90,000 633.1m industrial commercial customers across the UK, and operates almost 50 local authority contracts.
Despite softness in the industrial commercial market, Collection turnover in the UK Profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation increased to 360.6 million 270.7 million in 2003 2004. and exceptional items up 16.6% at Including the contribution of Hales, profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 51.6 million, up 18.3%.
79.2m Excluding the estimated contribution from Hales, Collections profit Goodwill amortisation 21.3 million and exceptional costs of 10.9 million.
before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation was down by around 11 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Unique market position Biffa is well placed to capitalise on opportunities created by legislation driving the need for alternative methods of waste disposal 2%.
In 2003 2004, with local authorities striving to meet statutory Integrated municipal contracts recycling targets, Biffa was able to extend several contracts with In the previous financial year, Biffa won a 300 million integrated additional services.
Success in gaining important new contracts on waste contract with Leicester City Council, to manage all its waste the industrial commercial side continued, capitalising on Biffas collection and disposal facilities.
Development and implementation national coverage of depots and supporting IT infrastructure.
of the contract progressed well in 2003 2004.
Landfill Community and environment Although legislation and increases in landfill tax are likely to Biffa donates its landfill tax credits to community and environment drive demand for alternative methods of disposal in the future, projects through the Biffaward fund.
Changes to the Landfill Tax landfill remains the primary waste disposal route in the UK.
Biffa Credit Scheme by the government in 2003 have reduced the scope currently operates 34 landfill sites, and it has been recommended of Biffawards contributions to projects and the type of projects it for the ISO14001 environmental management accreditation for its can fund: however, almost 7.5 million was given to community and landfill division.
Landfill turnover in the UK was up 15.2% to 163.1 million in Belgium 2003 2004.
Landfill volumes, excluding the estimated impact of Biffas turnover in Belgium was up 10.4% to 59.2 million.
A change Hales, were up by around 3%, and unit revenues were up 1%.
in Belgian legislation means that turnover there is now reported Landfills profit before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation was gross of the recovery for environmental taxes making it consistent up 17.6% to 34.0 million, including the Hales contribution: and with the UK, so this has boosted turnover figures for the year.
up by around 7% if that contribution is excluded.
Without the effect of that change, turnover would have been up by about 6%.
Profit before interest, tax and goodwill amortisation Special Waste in Belgium was 3.2 million.
The Special Waste divisions turnover increased by 11.6% to 50.2 million in 2003 2004.
Profit before interest, tax and goodwill Outlook amortisation for the division was 7.0 million: excluding the Biffas market position comprising strengths in collection, landfill contribution from Hales, this figure was up by around 7% on and special waste continues to provide a positive outlook for Biffas the previous year.
With its range of products and technologies for future development and performance.
Legislation and increases in handling special waste, the division is well placed to exploit the landfill tax will continue to drive demand for alternative methods opportunities offered by the Landfill Directive and hazardous waste of waste disposal in the UK.
Biffas experience in Belgium means regulations.
Biffas power generation activity is a key component of we are well placed to capitalise on these opportunities, as do our the Special Waste division.
In 2003 2004 we boosted our capacity recognised high standards in pretreatment and recycling.
to generate power from landfill gas to around 90 MW in the UK.
June 2003 saw Biffa acquire to be integrated, and, crucially, CASE STUDY Hales Waste Control and RMC a common IT system had to be HALES ACQUISITION STRENGTHENS BIFFAS Environmental Services, in a 141 set up.
million deal that established Biffa as MARKET LEADERSHIP The acquisition of Hales gives one of the largest integrated waste Biffa greatly increased coverage in management companies in the UK.
In buying Hales in June 2003, Biffa has London and East Anglia, enabling it Hales was one of the top 10 waste to offer better geographical coverage strengthened its geographical coverage, companies in the UK, with some to customers with multiple sites.
its product range and its customer base.
27,000 industrial commercial It also greatly increases Biffas customers, 38 operating depots, operational landfill void in the 8 operational landfill sites, and south of England.
In addition, the 5 transfer stations.
Its Waste-Safe acquisition is delivering important service for small amounts of cost efficiencies through improved special waste is well known in the fleet utilisation.
It also enhances the marketplace, and complements combined companys ability to Biffas existing services for bulk capitalise on new market liquid waste.
With around 1,000 employees and 450 industrial commercial collection vehicles, the Hales integration was a substantial project.
Employee Successful integration and Union consultations had to be The Hales acquisition is already undertaken, collection depots and delivering cost efficiencies landfill sites had to integrated into by improving vehicle utilisation the Biffa system: sales forces had throughout the enlarged collection infrastructure 12 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Performance SUMMARY REVIEW OF OPERATIONS Severn Trent Services turnover decreased by 1.1% to 381.2 million THE SERVICES GROUP in 2003 2004, with a little under 80% of turnover arising in the US.
Excluding the impact of the exchange rates, turnover increased by Our US and other international around 6%.
businesses delivered good results in Profits before the impact of exchange rates were also affected by the 2003 2004, often in difficult market weak dollar.
Profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 38.7 million, up 13.2%: excluding the effect conditions.
Strong management had of exchange rates, this figure increased by around 16% on the previous year.
a positive impact on margins and profits, and the high levels of Goodwill amortisation for the Services Group was 7.2 million 8.5 million.
Profit before interest and tax was 31.5 million loss of innovation and service achieved in 21.1 million.
different parts of this group were SEVERN TRENT LABORATORIES recognised through prestigious Turnover in Laboratories, the largest business within Services, industry awards and accolades.
was down 1.0% to 170.1 million, but excluding the impact of exchange rates turnover increased by around 7%.
Turnover in the US in US$ was up by around 8% and turnover in the UK was up by around 2%.
A little over 80% of Laboratories turnover arose in the US.
The US performance took place against a background of difficult markets for example, federal budget deficits have led to cutbacks in the United States Environmental Protection Agency funding.
Nevertheless, excluding the impact of exchange rates, the Laboratories business has continued to grow turnover.
Turnover down 1.1% at Leading the market Severn Trent Laboratories expanded its geographical reach in 381.2m 2003 2004, opening new service centres in five US states.
Its operations now comprise 31 laboratories and 21 service centres in the US, 4 laboratories and 1 service centre in the UK, and a large Profit before interest, tax and goodwill fleet of mobile laboratories.
amortisation up 13.2% at STLs market leadership is not just size-related: it also takes the form of being at the forefront of emerging areas in contaminant testing.
13 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Acquisitions Operating Services In April 2003 STL acquired P&K Microbiology Services, a The Operating Services division handles operating and maintenance microbiology and mycology testing business recognised as a pioneer contracts for customers in the US.
Contract Operations saw positive in mould testing.
In March 2004, STL acquired Aerotech effects from the weak US economy, since state and local Laboratories Inc Aerotech, another leader in this field.
Targeted municipalities faced with budget deficits are increasingly looking to acquisitions have been a key part of STLs strategy for growing its public-private partnerships to improve the operating efficiency of business, and will continue to be so.
water and waste treatment sites.
Outlook Turnover in 2003 2004 grew 1.7%, but excluding the impact of Whilst economic conditions in the US are likely to remain difficult, exchange rates turnover was up by around 7%.
there are a number of positive market opportunities.
Emerging market areas such as indoor air quality and mould, food hygiene, In contrast, budget deficits are a negative backdrop for the Pipeline and testing for perchlorate all provide good opportunities for Services business, providing minimal support for infrastructure profitable growth.
On the UK side of the business, EU legislation projects.
However, last years restructuring programme and a is also creating opportunities.
strategy of cutting costs and focusing on the core business of repair, rehabilitation and flow metering work has borne fruit.
SEVERN TRENT SERVICES Severn Trent Services improved its performance, before the impact Our Metering Services business achieved good growth in of exchange rates.
The restructuring programme initiated in 2003 2004.
2002 2003 has led to a more focused management approach, and tighter controls on costs.
This in turn has helped to increase Severn Trent Water International STWI provides a range of margins.
management and consultancy services in Europe and the developing world.
Contracts include a public-private partnership to operate Water Purification water and wastewater services in Umbria begun in 2002 2003 : The Water Purification division was one of the main objects of last and longstanding public-private partnerships with the Flemish years restructuring programme, and the benefits are visible.
Cost government in Belgium Aquafin, and in Portugal with the joint reductions have brought a substantial improvement in margins.
Turnover decreased by 5.3% to 82.9 million, but excluding the impact of exchange rates turnover was up by around 2%.
Improved performance The Services Group has made significant progress Indoor Air Quality IAQ is a major the acquisition also accomplishes CASE STUDY market opportunity in the US and other important goals.
NEW MARKETS IN THE US elsewhere.
There is widespread First, food microbiology is another concern that mould and toxic mould emerging market, and represents Targeted acquisitions have extended STLs could be linked to sick building an area of synergy to STLs existing syndrome, and this is creating major capabilities in key emerging markets.
Second, it closes a legal and financial problems for gap in STLs western US coverage.
Phoenix, Arizona is one of the fastestIn April 2003, Severn Trent growing cities in the US, and this Laboratories put itself at the growth is promoting environmental vanguard of this market when it work relating to infrastructure acquired P&K Microbiology Services, development.
The opportunities for a microbiology business whose staff STL thus go far beyond the market have worked on many high-profile potential of IAQ.
mould-testing cases in the US.
Eleven months later, Severn Trent also acquired Aerotech Laboratories in Arizona, the USs largest commercial Indoor Air Quality laboratory.
Aerotechs analytical services include mould testing, food microbiology, industrial hygiene and bioterrorism response analysis.
As Scale and breadth well as giving STL a huge presence in Severn Trent Laboratories leadership the valuable and growing IAQ market, position and wide spectrum of services remains key to its success 14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 269,000 customers in September 2003.
Energy supplier ETSA, SUMMARY REVIEW OF OPERATIONS based in South Australia, went live with 765,000 customers in OTHER BUSINESSES November 2003, and energy utility Alinta went live with the new upgrade of CIS-Open Vision in February 2004 with 480,000 customers.
Alinta now has 99% of its retail customers on CIS-Open Sales in the UK, North America Vision, and uses the system to generate 8,000 bills per day.
and Australia led to an improved Worksuite, the work management business of the Systems Group, performance from Severn Trents was restructured into a standalone, wholly owned subsidiary.
In Property, in Houston, its market is the UK and primarily North America, where it enjoys a leadership position.
The company completed major new there was good progress on sales to FPL, Enbridge and Northeast Utilities.
It also advanced its current projects.
large-scale deployments of its integrated office, web and wireless technology at FPL, National Grid and a Scottish Power affiliate in the UK.
PROPERTY, ENGINEERING CONSULTANCY AND INSURANCE Total turnover from these businesses in 2003 2004 was 83.5 million 73.0 million.
Profit before interest and tax was 3.2 million 5.5 million.
The reduction in profits reflects the result from Haswells, the Groups engineering consultancy business.
Property Severn Trent Property was originally set up to exploit the development potential of land surplus to Severn Trent Waters requirements.
It also undertakes projects on sites acquired from third parties.
In 2003 2004 good progress was made on virtually all current Turnover up 9.5% at projects.
At Thorpe Park, Leeds the largest out-of-town office park in the north of England further buildings were completed for WS Atkins plc, Boxwood plc and the University of Leeds.
Major 147.1 million infrastructure, which will give direct access onto the M1 motorway, is now completed.
Profit before interest, tax and exceptional items At Daventry International Rail Freight Terminal, planning permission to extend the project by up to 2 million sq ft was granted during autumn 2003.
During the year, a major regional sorting hub was 5.5 million completed for Royal Mail.
Remaining undeveloped land within the exceptional provision release of 2.7 million first phase of the project was sold to another developer.
At Warwick, work has commenced at Tournament Fields, adjacent to Junction 15 of the M40.
The site has planning permission for office and business use: infrastructure, including roads and drainage, is under construction.
SYSTEMS Total turnover for the Severn Trent Systems Group in 2003 2004 Engineering was 63.6 million, up 3.8% on the previous year.
Profit before Charles Haswell & Partners offers consultancy services in a wide interest and tax was 5.0 million.
range of engineering and environmental disciplines.
In 2003, two awards paid tribute to the companys expertise.
New Civil Engineer Aseriti supplies IT solutions and services for the private, public and and the Association of Consulting Engineers recognised it as the top utility sectors in the UK, USA and Australia.
Secondly, it was joint winner of the British Geotechnical Societys Fleming Award, for its In the UK it won a substantial contract to supply software and work on design and construction of a section of the Dublin Port expertise to utility infrastructure provider Core Utility Solutions Ltd.
It has managed and implemented substantial projects for Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Plc.
These included an IT solution to Other activity in 2003 2004 included working with Yorkshire Water transfer information on the regions 62,000 mile pipe network from Services as a key member of its Eastern Area Wastewater Capital paper maps onto mobile computers.
Its latest CIS solution was Solution Team.
It also made a major contribution to the successful also delivered and installed to Severn Trent Water in preparation delivery of Severn Trent Waters capital programme.
Charles Haswell & Partners introduced its Environmental In the US, South Maryland Electric Co-operative one of the ten Management System in 2003 2004 which is accredited to the ISO largest electric co-operatives in the US went live with CIS-Open 14001:2001 standard.
CIS-Open Vision is also being used successfully by Snohomish Public Utilities Department, following its Insurance implementation in January 2003.
In Australia, the energy utility Derwent Insurance, based in Guernsey, Severn Trents captive Citipower, based in Victoria, went live with CIS-Open Vision for insurer provides insurance cover to Severn Trent group companies.
15 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 major achievement in this area is our electricity generation from CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY renewable resources.
Severn Trents corporate vision is Workplace We are committed to providing a safe working environment for our to be at the forefront of the employees and all other people that come into contact with the environmental services industry.
Our company and in 2003 2004 the number of reportable health and safety incidents declined.
We also seek to ensure equality of corporate values of environmental opportunity through a diverse workforce.
leadership, service and quality are Recognised leadership Severn Trent has been named as enshrined in our Code of Business the leading utility in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the third Principles and Conduct.
They define consecutive year our business culture and guide our strategies.
Our policy We strive to be a responsible corporate citizen and recognise that Severn Trent has an important role to play in achieving sustainable development for society as a whole.
As part of this commitment, Community we seek to conserve natural resources and to support the Severn Trents community affairs programme focuses on communities in which we operate.
environmental education, the built environment and the natural environment.
Investment takes cash and non-cash forms, and we Our role as an environmental services company means that our are a member of the PerCent Club of businesses, which donate at activities are of intrinsic benefit to society, however, our ability to least 1% of pre-tax profits to the community.
Employee volunteering achieve business success also makes a significant contribution to is an important part of this.
As well as delivering shareholder value, we support the wider community in ways that range from the Marketplace employment opportunities we offer to our charitable donations.
In all areas of Severn Trents business in 2003 2004 our commitment to corporate responsibility also led to success in Vision, values and principles the marketplace.
For example, Severn Trents levels of service We aspire to high standards of corporate behaviour as we pursue were recognised in its leading position among water and sewerage our vision of leadership in the environmental services industry.
companies in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment in 2003.
To set an ethical framework for our activities, we have published The Laboratories businesss work on emerging new environmental our values and a code of business principles, which are available and health risks, such as toxic mould, is being rewarded with on our website at www.
Biffas experience in the Isle of Wight, where it diverted over 45% of the islands waste from landfill, is a good Environment platform for offering integrated waste management services to The goal of environmental leadership influenced work at every level local authorities.
Projects ranged from auditing Biffas landfill sites against its Biodiversity Action Plan, to detailed planning on how Further commentary on Severn Trents commitment to corporate our businesses will adapt to the existing effects of climate change.
responsibility in 2003 2004 is available in the companys annual Mitigation of our own environmental impact is also central, and a Stewardship Report.
Environmental solutions Our objective is to provide services that solve environmental problems, respond to new environmental expectations and deliver sustainable development 16 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 FINANCIAL REVIEW Group results Exceptional items Group turnover was 2,015.1 million 1,852.0 million, an increase There was a net exceptional profit in the year of 11.6 million, of 8.8% over last year.
The growth in turnover was mainly due to the comprising the net of: contribution of the non-regulated businesses, which benefited from A 19.8 million profit from the sale of fixed assets, arising from the acquisitions made in the year.
The turnover of the non-regulated the sale of land and property by Severn Trent Water.
Given its businesses increased by 12.7% to 1,161.4 million 1,030.6 magnitude, the profit from the sale of fixed assets was not treated million, representing 54.8% 52.9% of the Group total before the as exceptional in 2002 2003 6.7 million : elimination of inter segment trading.
Turnover from water and A 2.7 million credit from the release of part of the exceptional sewerage increased by 4.2% to 956.7 million 917.9 million.
charge made in 2001 2002 in respect of certain of Systems CIS-Open Vision contracts in the USA: Goodwill amortisation was 29.8 million 25.2 million.
There A charge of 10.9 million in waste management for Hales was a net exceptional profit of 11.6 million loss of 40.8 million integration costs.
In 2002 2003, there was an exceptional charge of 40.8 million, Group profit before interest, tax, goodwill amortisation and comprising the net cost of a 46.8 million write down for exceptional items was up 7.5% to 440.6 million 409.8 million.
impairment in the net book value of some businesses within The water and sewerage business was up by 3.8% to 337.9 million Services and a 6.0 million credit from the release of part of the 325.5 million.
The Groups non-regulated businesses in total were exceptional charge made in 2001 2002 in respect of certain of up 18.1% to 123.4 million 104.5 million, representing 26.8% Systems CIS-Open Vision contracts in the USA.
24.3% of the Group total before unrealised profit on inter segment trading and corporate overheads.
Taxation The charge for current tax was 33.3 million 24.8 million, of Group profit before interest, tax and exceptional items was 410.8 which 2.4 million was attributable to exceptional items.
Group profit before interest and tax was tax charge of 30.9 million, attributable to profit after interest and 422.4 million 343.8 million.
goodwill amortisation but before tax and exceptional items is an effective rate of 12.7% 11.0%.
The current tax rate has benefited After interest charges of 168.0 million 159.4 million, Group from an adjustment in respect of prior periods.
profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was up 8.9% at 272.6 million 250.4 million.
Group profit before tax and Pensions exceptional items was 242.8 million 225.2 million an increase of SSAP24, the applicable standard for Severn Trent, uses the results 7.8%.
Group profit before tax was 254.4 million 184.4 million.
of the last formal actuarial valuations to determine the pension charge in the Groups accounts.
This principle has been followed The total tax charge for the year was 69.6 million 84.3 million in determining the Groups pension charge for 2003 2004. of which current tax represented 33.3 million 24.8 million and deferred tax was 36.3 million 59.5 million.
Minority interests The Group has four defined benefit pension schemes, viz: the Severn were 0.7 million 0.9 million.
Profit after tax and minority Trent Water Pension Scheme STWPS which is by far the largest of interests was 184.1 million 99.2 million.
the Groups defined benefit pension schemes, the Severn Trent Mirror Image Pension Scheme STMIPS, the UK Waste Pension Basic earnings per share were 53.5 pence 28.9 pence.
Adjusted Scheme UKWPS and the Severn Trent Senior Staff Pension basic earnings per share before exceptional items and deferred tax Scheme STSSPS.
were 61.4 pence 58.1 pence, an increase of 5.7%.
Formal actuarial valuations have been undertaken for the STMIPS Operating activities generated a net cash inflow of 733.1 million.
as at 31 March 2003 and for the UKWPS as at 6 April 2003.
Given The main cash outflows were capital expenditure and financial the deterioration in the funding position of these two schemes since investment of 487.5 million, equity dividends of 157.7 million, their previous formal actuarial valuations, there is an additional acquisitions of 170.6 million and net financing costs of 148.3 pension charge net of amounts allocated to own work capitalised million.
The increase in net debt was 243.5 million.
of 4.1 million for the Group in 2003 2004 reflecting the results of these valuations.
Gearing, reflecting the provision for deferred tax, was 124% 113%.
The Groups pension charge in 2003 2004 in respect of the STWPS The groups net interest charge was covered 4.4 times 4.4 times by and the STSSPS is based on their formal actuarial valuations as at profit before interest, tax, depreciation, goodwill amortisation and 31 March 2001 when these funds had a combined surplus of exceptional items.
Formal actuarial valuations of the STWPS and the STSSPS are currently being undertaken as at 31 March 2004 in accordance with the normal triennial pattern of valuations.
Given the deterioration in the funding position of these two schemes since their last formal actuarial valuations, these valuations and the analogous assessment of the Groups unfunded pension liabilities for senior staff are expected to result in a significant additional pension charge for the Group in 2004 2005.
Based on SSAP 24, this additional pension charge net of amounts allocated to own work capitalised, is provisionally estimated to be of the order of around 30 million to 35 million, with broadly around two thirds to three quarters of this amount expected to be attributable to Severn 17 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Trent Water.
Given the preliminary nature of these estimates, it is The Groups business does not involve significant exposure to quite possible that the actual additional pension charge, as a result of foreign exchange transactions.
Cross currency swaps are employed these valuations, could be materially different from these estimates.
to exchange foreign currency borrowings for sterling.
The Group also has investments in various assets denominated in foreign currencies, On an FRS17 basis, the estimated net position before deferred tax principally the US dollar and the Euro.
The Groups current policy is of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes and the Groups to hedge an element of the currency translation risk associated with unfunded pension liabilities for senior staff was a deficit of certain foreign currency denominated assets.
approximately 368 million as at 31 March 2004, as compared to a deficit of approximately 325 million as at 31 March 2003.
Although In August 2003 Moodys Investor Services and Standard & Poors the value of assets has increased over the last year, liabilities have lowered the long term credit rating of Severn Trent Plc and Severn increased by a greater amount reflecting, inter alia, the updating of Trent Water Limited.
mortality assumptions to be in line with current experience and to Long term ratings Severn Trent Severn Trent include an allowance for expected further improvements and a Water Limited Plc reduction in the real discount rate.
Net of deferred tax, the estimated Moodys A2A3 net deficit on an FRS17 basis as at 31 March 2004 was Standard & Poors A A approximately 257 million.
On an FRS17 basis the funding level has improved from around 70% at 31 March 2003 to 72% at 31 March 2004. International Accounting Standards The Group will be required to prepare its financial statements As at 31 March 2004 the Groups defined benefit pension schemes under International Accounting Standards IAS for the year ending had total assets of approximately 937 million, of which around 31 March 2006, with the Groups first published results under IAS 73% was invested in equities.
Treasury management The Group has commenced a programme of work to prepare for The Groups treasury affairs are managed centrally and in the adoption of IAS.
An initial review has been undertaken to identify accordance with its Treasury Procedures Manual and Policy the differences between IAS and existing UK standards Statement.
The treasury operations primary role is to manage and Group accounting policies.
A central project management team liquidity, funding, investment and the groups financial risk, including has been formed to coordinate the transition process, with working risk from volatility in interest and to a lesser extent currency rates groups from individual subsidiaries involved in the work, with a and counterparty credit risk.
Its activities are subject to a set of view also to determining any additional data that may be required controls commensurate with the magnitude of the borrowings and to be collected.
A Treasury Committee appointed by the Board determines matters of Treasury policy and Some of the prospective standards are still under review by the its approval is required for certain treasury transactions.
International Accounting Standards Board and, in addition, the Groups work in reviewing the impact of existing IAS is still ongoing.
It is the Groups strategy to access a broad range of sources of Hence, at this time, no definitive information on the impact on the finance to obtain both the quantum required and the lowest cost Group of the adoption of IAS is being provided.
However, it seems compatible with the need for continued availability.
likely that the adoption of IAS will increase the volatility of the Groups reported results and impact its balance sheet.
On 5 April 2004 Severn Trent put in place a new 700 million Revolving Credit Facility RCF.
This facility replaced two existing Potentially significant changes arising from the adoption of IAS are facilities a 600 million RCF and a 160 million bilateral facility.
currently thought to include accounting for financial instruments, The new RCF comprises two elements: a 200 million tranche retirement benefits, fixed assets and renewals accounting, deferred maturing in 364 days with a one year term-out option, and a 500 tax and business combinations.
million tranche having a five year maturity.
Supplementary information The Group uses financial derivatives solely for the purposes of For supplementary information including the groups preliminary managing risk associated with financing its normal business results presentation, see the Severn Trent website activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial www.
instruments for financial trading purposes.
The group uses a limited number of currency swaps and interest rate swaps to redenominate external borrowings into the currencies and interest rate coupon required for group purposes.
The Groups policy for the management of interest rate risk requires that no less than 50% of the Groups borrowings should be at fixed interest rates, or hedged through the use of interest rate swaps or Alan Perelman forward rate agreements.
At 31 March 2004, interest rates for some Group Finance Director 70% of the Groups net debt of 2,749 million were so fixed, at a weighted average interest rate of 6.1% for a weighted average period of 17.9 years.
In addition, the group has a 50 million forward start interest rate swap floating to fixed that commences during 2004 2005.
18 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 BOARD OF DIRECTORS David Arculus MA MSc Chairman Martin Bettington BSc MechEng 58 MBA 51 Mr Arculus joined the Board in May Mr Bettington joined the Board in 1996 as a non-executive Director and November 1994.
He is the Managing was appointed Chairman on 29 July Director of Severn Trents waste 1998.
He is a non-executive Director management business, Biffa Waste of Barclays PLC and was recently Services Ltd. Mr Bettington was appointed as a non-executive previously employed by BET Plc, Director of mmO.
From 2002 to May Biffas former holding company.
He 2 2004 he was Chairman of Earls Court holds an MBA from Manchester & Olympia Group Ltd and from 1998 Business School.
to October 2001 he was Chairman of IPC Group Ltd. Until 1997 he was Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA 52 Group Managing Director of Emap Ms Cassoni joined the Board on 1 Board Committees Remuneration Committee Membership of Board Committees is as M C Flower Chairman Plc, the international media September 2001.
She is currently detailed below: M L Cassoni company, where he played a Group Finance Director of Royal Mail J D G McAdam significant role in the growth of that plc, having previously been Group Audit Committee Secretary P P Davies company.
Mr Arculus was formerly a Finance Director at Britannic J B Smith Chairman M L Cassoni Nominations Committee journalist and a producer at the BBC.
F A Osborn T D G Arculus Chairman In April 2002, he was appointed by Ms Cassoni qualified as an Secretary P P Davies M C Flower the Government to chair its Better accountant with Deloittes where she J D G McAdam Regulation Task Force.
rose to be Corporate Finance Charitable Contributions Committee F A Osborn B Duckworth Chairman Secretary P P Davies Manager.
She later moved to the R M Walker John Banyard BScEng FREng FICE Prudential Corporation, becoming Secretary P P Davies Treasury Committee FCIWEM 59 Group Finance Director of the M L Cassoni Chairman Mr Banyard joined the Board in Prudentials UK Division in 1994.
Corporate Responsibility Committee T D G Arculus R M Walker Chairman T E Jack January 1998.
He is an executive T D G Arculus A S Perelman Director of Severn Trent Water Ltd Brian Duckworth BA FCCA FCIWEM M J Bettington J B Smith with responsibility for asset FIWO 55 R S Brydon Jannetta R M Walker management.
He is also a Director of Mr Duckworth joined the Board in B Duckworth M R Wilson L F Graziano Secretary P P Davies UK Water Industry Research Ltd, a November 1994.
He has worked in J W Oatridge member of the Court of Cranfield various roles since joining Severn F A Osborn Senior independent non-executive Director University and the Royal Academy of Trent in 1974 and was appointed Secretary P P Davies M C Flower Engineering Visiting Professor of Managing Director of Severn Trent Executive Committee Group General Counsel and Company Water Engineering at Loughborough Water Ltd on 1 April 1995.
Mr R M Walker Chairman Secretary University.
Mr Banyard is a Chartered Duckworth was appointed as a nonT D G Arculus P P Davies, LL.
Solicitor Civil Engineer and has worked in a executive Director of Avon Rubber plc J K Banyard number of engineering roles within and Redrow Plc in 2002.
He has M J Bettington P P Davies and Secretary the group since joining Severn Trent served as the President of the B Duckworth in 1974.
He was elected a Fellow of Institution of Water Officers and P J Gavan the Royal Academy of Engineering in Chairman of Water UK, the water J W Oatridge 1997.
He is currently President of the industrys trade association.
A S Perelman P K Tandon Pipeline Industries Guild.
19 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Martin Flower BA 57 Colin Matthews MA CEng 48 Derek Osborn CB 63 John Smith FCCA, Hon.
FRIBA 46 Mr Flower joined the Board in June Mr Matthews joined the Board on 17 Mr Osborn joined the Board on Mr Smith joined the Board on 3 1996 and is the senior independent October 2003.
He is a Chartered 21 September 1998 and is a leading November 2003.
He is a member of non-executive Director.
At the end of Engineer who has worked in Japan, figure in the environmental world.
the H M Treasurys Public Services May 2004 he retired as Chairman of France, Canada, and the UK.
He He was Chairman of the UK Round Productivity Panel, the Accounting Coats Ltd, where he had previously worked for the American General Table on Sustainable Development Standards Board and the 100 Group been Group Chief Executive.
Electric Company for nine years and from 1999 to 2000 and is now a of Finance Directors.
He is a Fellow of subsequently spent five years at member of the UK Commission on the Chartered Association of Certified Martin Houston BSc MSc DIC 46 British Airways, first as Director of Sustainable Development.
After training with a Mr Houston joined the Board on Engineering then as Director of been Chairman of UNED UK since firm of accountants, Mr Smith joined 1 September 2003.
He is currently Technical Operations, responsible for 1996 and was Chairman of the the British Railways Board, moving Executive Vice President and all aircraft maintenance, IT and International Institute for Environment up over a period of 14 years to head Managing Director of BG Groups procurement.
He then joined the and Development from 1998 to up their corporate demerger team.
North American, Caribbean and Board of Lattice Group Plc as Group 2002.
He is Chairman of Jupiter In 1989 he moved to the BBC, Global Liquefied Natural Gas Managing Director of Transco until its Global Green Investment Trust and becoming Director of Finance, business and a member of the Group merger with the National Grid.
He of the international advisory board Property and Business Affairs in Executive Committee.
He joined BG has held his current position as CEO of ERM CVS.
Mr Smith has held a nonGroup in 1983 and has held a of Hays Plc since November 2002.
General of Environment Protection in executive directorship with Vickers number of technical and commercial Mr Matthews holds a first class the Department of the Environment Plc, was a member of the advisory roles with a predominantly degree in Engineering from from 1990 to 1995 and Chairman board of Zurich Financial Services international focus.
He has a BSc in Cambridge University.
of the Management Board of the UK and was a Director of the Royal Geology from Newcastle University European Environment Agency from Television Society.
and an MSc in Petroleum Geology John McAdam BSc PhD 56 1995 to 1999. from Imperial College, London.
He is Dr McAdam joined the Board on 18 Robert Walker MA 59 a fellow of the Geological Society of September 2000.
He is Chief Alan Perelman MA MSc 56 Mr Walker joined the Board in May London and sits on the board of Executive and a member of the Mr Perelman joined the Board in 1996 as a non-executive Director.
SIGTTO Society of International Gas Board of ICI PLC.
He joined ICI in October 2001 and was appointed He was appointed Deputy Chief Tanker & Terminal Operators Ltd. 1997 following the acquisition of the Group Finance Director in December Executive in July 1999 and became Specialty Chemical Businesses from 2001.
Prior to this he was Group Group Chief Executive in August Unilever where he held a number of Finance Director at Whitbread from 2000.
He has previously worked for senior positions in Birds Eye Walls 1990 to 2001.
Previous positions Procter & Gamble, McKinsey & Ltd, Unichema International and held were Group Finance Director at Company and PepsiCo Inc. where he Quest International.
He was The Gateway Corporation and various was a Division President.
Mr Walker appointed Executive Vice President positions at Rio Tinto both in the UK is also a non-executive Director of Coatings and Chief Executive of ICI and overseas.
Paints in 1998, and joined the Board of ICI PLC soon after when he also Non-executive Director became responsible for Corporate Research & Technology.
He took over as Chief Executive of ICI PLC in April 2003.
He is a member of the University of Surrey Business Advisory Group.
Top row Bottom row David Arculus Martin Flower Robert Walker Marisa Cassoni Alan Perelman Derek Osborn Brian Duckworth John Smith Martin Bettington John Banyard Colin Matthews Martin Houston John McAdam 20 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEVERN TRENT PLC We have examined the summary financial statement of Severn Trent Plc.
Full details of these resolutions are included in the Notice of the AGM which is circulated to all shareholders.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised annual Substantial shareholdings review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to As at 7 June 2004 the company had been notified of the following report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary substantial shareholding: Number of ordinary financial statement within the Annual Review 2004 with the annual 5 shares of 65 19p each % financial statements, the directors report and the remuneration Legal & General Investment report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section Management Limited 11,259,833 3.26 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review 2004 and consider the implications for our report Directors if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material A list of Directors and their background details appear on pages inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Details of their service contracts and emoluments can This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and be found in the Summary Remuneration Report on page 24 to 26. only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
Mr M J Houston, Mr C S Matthews and Mr J B Smith joined the We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for Board as non-executive Directors on 1 September 2003, 17 October any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is 2003 and 3 November 2003 respectively.
shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Mrs C Tritton and Mr E E Anstee retired from the Board on 30 July 2003 and 15 December 2003 respectively.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The In accordance with the companys Articles of Association Messrs auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by J K Banyard, B Duckworth, M J Houston, C S Matthews, F A Osborn, the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
J B Smith and Dr J D G McAdam retire at the AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for reappointment.
The Nominations Opinion Committee supports and recommends the proposed In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with reappointments.
the annual financial statements, the directors report and the remuneration report of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March The company has recently announced a number of changes 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 regarding its Directors.
It has been agreed that Mr T D G Arculus will of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
step down as Chairman of the Board as he will soon be appointed Chairman of mmO.
However, in order to provide continuity to the  LLP 2 Board during a time of change and also assist in the finalisation of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, Birmingham Severn Trent Waters AMP4 determination, it was considered to be in 7 June 2004 the best interests of the company for him to remain in post until 31 December 2004.
Mr R M Walker will retire as Group Chief Executive SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT on 2 February 2005 and will be succeeded by Mr C S Matthews.
Principal activities Mr A S Perelman will retire as Group Finance Director on 31 August The principal activities of the group continued to be the supply of 2004 and will be replaced by Mr M R Wilson.
Mr B Duckworth will water and sewerage services, waste management and the provision step down from the Board at the end of August 2004.
These are described in more detail, Brydon Jannetta will join the Board, as an executive Director, in together with a review of the groups business and future September 2004. developments, on pages 8 to 14.
Corporate governance Final Dividend The company attaches great significance to the maintenance of Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the good corporate governance procedures and adherence to best recommended final dividend of 29.27p 2003: 28.56p net for each practice recognising that they play their part in creating a framework ordinary share will be paid on 1 October 2004 to shareholders on which can provide increased benefits for shareholders.
the register at the close of business on 18 June 2004.
This, together with the interim dividend of 17.77p 2003: 17.34p per share, which Following the issue of a revised Combined Code on Corporate was paid on 6 April 2004, brings the total for the year to 47.04p Governance the Revised Code in July 2003, the company has 2003: 45.90p.
carried out a review of its corporate governance arrangements and made changes as necessary and appropriate.
Share capital Resolutions will be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting As the Revised Code became effective for accounting periods AGM to renew the Directors authority to: starting on or after 1 November 2003, this report has been prepared on the basis of the previous Combined Code on allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Corporate Governance the Code.
However it is anticipated that Companies Act 1985 : the company will be compliant with virtually all provisions of the issue equity securities for cash without first having to offer these Revised Code for the new financial year.
securities to existing shareholders: and make market purchases of the companys own ordinary shares.
21 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Throughout the year ended 31 March 2004 the company has been Diversity in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Diversity policies are in place in each company in the group that reflect the requirements of the locations in which they operate and The Board that also meet the aims of the companys Code of Business The Board currently consists of five executive Directors and eight Principles and Conduct.
The Board has reviewed the status of the non-executive Directors and has confirmed that, with the exception The company continues to monitor the data on the diversity of of Mr C S Matthews as Group Chief Executive Designate, it regards the current and potential workforce.
The US businesses continue them as being independent.
At the time of his appointment as to demonstrate their lead in the group with the gender and ethnic Chairman of the company Mr T D G Arculus was considered to diversity of their workforces.
However, in accordance with the Revised Code, he is now deemed not to be independent.
On an ongoing basis, the company benchmarks its policies and practices in this area by taking guidance from best practice Employees advisors such as the Employers Forum on Disability and Race The group employed 15,973 people as at 31 March 2004 2003: for Opportunity.
Progress is regularly monitored by the Corporate 14,890.
Of these 5,099 32% were employed in the water business, Responsibility Committee.
5,241 33% in the Biffa waste business and 4,781 30% in the Severn Trent Services businesses.
The numbers in Biffa have Health and safety increased as a result of the acquisition of Hales Waste in 2003.
This year the company has continued to develop a safety culture Approximately 29% of employees continue to be based outside the fully integrated into all aspects of the way the business is managed.
UK, mainly in the USA, Belgium and Italy.
To help ensure that the actions taken are consistent with best practice the main companies in the group have partnered with The larger group companies now each have their own intranets external experts to develop behavioural safety initiatives involving which form a major communication channel with their employees employees at all levels.
in addition to in-house magazines and tool-box talks.
Work also continued on over-arching group standards which apply to Group companies continue to maintain positive relationships with all group companies wherever they operate and these standards will the recognised trade unions and with other elected representatives.
address all key risk areas.
The groups annual meetings of the European Consultative Council are a further opportunity to develop a dialogue with employee Health and Safety is discussed at every Board meeting.
In addition, representatives and promote their better understanding of the the Board receives six-monthly reviews and other periodic reports future issues facing our businesses in Europe.
from the managing directors of the operating companies.
The group has undertaken a major review of its pension strategy Auditors with the objectives of reducing risk, maintaining affordability and The auditors report on the full annual accounts of the group for the demonstrating equity.
As a result of this review three new pension year ended 31 March 2004 was unqualified and did not contain a options were made available to new employees from 1 April 2004. statement under either section 237 2 accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records and The groups Lifestyle flexible benefits scheme continues to expand returns or 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and amongst UK based employees and with its introduction to Biffa staff explanations of the Companies Act 1985. in October 2004 will cover over 8,000 employees.
A resolution proposing the reappointment of The group continues to focus on the development of employees  LLP as Auditors will be put to the AGM.
In Biffa there has been a significant effort in harmonising the driver training programme to incorporate the best By order of the Board from the Biffa and the Hales driver training schemes.
Solicitor Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Three of the training programmes in Severn Trent Water received 7 June 2004 awards: The Institute of Leadership and Management Award for Excellence in Supervisory Management: and the Sector Skills Council award for both the BSc in Water and Environmental Management and the partnership with Warwick Business School.
All companies have the goal of making learning opportunities available and accessible to all employees.
To this end many companies are making learning resource centres available in e-learning by intranet and internet providers.
These activities are all complemented at senior manager level by the Leadership Development programme which covers the top 120 managers.
Group companies continue to meet legislative requirements of the countries in which they operate.
In addition, they further operate in compliance with the groups Code of Business Principles and Conduct and disclosure whistle-blowing procedures.
22 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 SUMMARY GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2004 Continuing Operations Total Acquisitions 2004 2003 m m m m Turnover 1,919.9 95.2 2,015.1 1,852.0 Operating costs before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 1,505.1 81.3 1,586.4 1,453.0 Goodwill amortisation 24.8 5.0 29.8 25.2 Exceptional integration costs 10.9 10.9 Exceptional provision release 2.7 2.7 6.0 Exceptional impairment of goodwill and tangible fixed assets 46.8 Total operating costs 1,527.2 97.2 1,624.4 1,519.0 Group operating profit loss 392.7 2.0 390.7 333.0 Share of operating profit of joint ventures and associates 11.9 11.9 10.8 Exceptional profit on disposal of fixed assets 19.8 19.8 Profit before interest, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 426.7 13.9 440.6 409.8 Goodwill amortisation 24.8 5.0 29.8 25.2 Profit before interest and exceptional items 401.9 8.9 410.8 384.6 Exceptional costs 10.9 10.9 46.8 Exceptional profits 22.5 22.5 6.0 Profit loss before interest 424.4 2.0 422.4 343.8 Net interest payable 168.0 159.4 Profit after interest before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 272.6 250.4 Goodwill amortisation 29.8 25.2 Profit after interest before exceptional items 242.8 225.2 Exceptional items 11.6 40.8 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 254.4 184.4 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities current tax 33.3 24.8 deferred tax 36.3 59.5 Total taxation 69.6 84.3 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 184.8 100.1 Equity minority interests 0.7 0.9 Profit for the financial year 184.1 99.2 Dividends 162.0 157.6 Retained profit loss for the financial year 22.1 58.4 Earnings per share pence Basic 53.5 28.9 Adjusted basic before exceptional items and deferred tax 61.4 58.1 Important note: The Annual Review and summary financial A copy can be obtained, free of charge, by writing to the Company statement does not contain sufficient information to allow a full Secretary at 2297 Coventry Road, Birmingham B26 3PU.
understanding of the results of the group and of the state of affairs Alternatively it can be accessed on the website at of the company or of the group nor of the policies and arrangements www.
Shareholders can elect to obtain concerning Directors remuneration.
For further details, the Annual the full Annual Report and Accounts for all future financial years by Report and Accounts 2004, which includes the Directors report and contacting the companys registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars whose the Auditors report on the financial statements, should be consulted.
23 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 SUMMARY GROUP BALANCE SHEET AT 31 MARCH 2004 2004 2003 m m Fixed assets 5,807.1 5,480.6 Current assets 648.5 583.1 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,223.7 1,219.2 Net current liabilities 575.2 636.1 Total assets less current liabilities 5,231.9 4,844.5 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2,440.6 2,101.6 Provisions for liabilities and charges 572.0 523.1 Net assets 2,219.3 2,219.8 Capital and reserves 2,216.9 2,217.6 Minority shareholders interest equity 2.4 2.2 2,219.3 2,219.8 Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the accounts on 7 June 2004.
David Arculus Alan Perelman Chairman Group Finance Director SUMMARY GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2004 2004 2003 m m m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 733.1 682.7 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 1.9 1.6 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 148.3 146.7 Taxation 19.5 14.3 Capital expenditure and financial investment 487.5 454.0 Acquisitions 170.6 11.5 Equity dividends paid 157.7 157.5 Net cash outflow before use of liquid resources and financing 248.6 99.7 Management of liquid resources 45.2 6.5 Financing Increase in debt 283.1 114.1 Issue of shares 5.6 3.3 288.7 117.4 Decrease increase in cash 5.1 11.2 24 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee Personal shareholdings The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, The company has, with effect from 26 April 2004, adopted the companys policy on the remuneration of executive Directors guidelines which expect executive Directors to have a minimum and the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee also determines the holding of ordinary shares in the company.
The Group Chief remuneration policy for the next band of approximately 10 senior Executive is expected to hold shares to the value of 1.5 x salary executives.
and other executive Directors 1 x salary, to be acquired over a transitional period.
Through a variety of share schemes, all The policy framework for remunerating all senior executives is employees are encouraged to hold shares in the company.
consistent with the approach taken for executive Directors.
External directorships The Committee is comprised exclusively of independent nonExecutive Directors are encouraged to take on external non-executive executive Directors of the company.
The members of the Committee directorships, though normally only one other FTSE 100 during the year were: appointment.
In order to avoid any conflicts of interest all such appointments are subject to the approval of the Nominations M C Flower Chairman Committee.
Directors are normally only able to retain the fees T D G Arculus resigned 31 March 2004 arising from one such appointment.
J D G McAdam M L Cassoni appointed 27 February 2004 Chairman and other non-executive Directors The remuneration policy for non-executive Directors, other than the The Committee members have no personal financial interest, other Chairman, is determined by the Board, within the limits set out in than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
The constitution and operation of the Committee comply with the Remuneration comprises an annual fee for acting as a non-executive Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Services Director of the company and additional fees for acting as: Authority the Code.
In setting performance related remuneration the Committee has regard to the provisions set out in Schedule A to Chairman of a Board Committee: the Code.
Senior non-executive Director: Trustee of a company pension scheme: Advisers Non-executive Director of a subsidiary company.
To ensure that the companys remuneration practices are market Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in incentive competitive, the Committee has access to detailed external research plans nor is any pension provision made except as detailed in on market data and trends from experienced specialist consultants.
The Group Chief Executive and Mr J W Oatridge, Group Services Non-executive Directors receive payment of part of their fees in Director and the Chairman of the Board with effect from the form of ordinary shares in the company which, from May 2004, 1 April 2004 also provide advice and are invited to attend meetings have to be retained for the period of their appointment.
to respond to specific questions raised by the Committee.
This specifically excludes any matter concerning their own remuneration.
The non-executive Directors do not have service contracts or The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
consultancy agreements with any group company.
Remuneration policy Remuneration arrangements for executive Directors The companys ongoing remuneration policy for executive Directors The remuneration arrangements for executive Directors comprise is to review regularly and update as appropriate the framework to the following elements: provide remuneration in a form and amount which will attract, retain, motivate and reward high calibre individuals.
To achieve this, Base salary and benefits: the remuneration package is based on the following principles: Annual bonus plan: Long Term Incentive Plan: Incentives are aligned with the interests of shareholders and seek Post-retirement benefits.
to reward the creation of long-term value: Reward elements are designed to reinforce the link between Details of each of the above elements are as follows: performance and reward.
Performance related elements should form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package Base salaries and benefits and at maximum for 2004 2005 vary between 135% and 160% Base salaries are a fixed cash sum payable monthly.
The companys of basic pay: policy is to set the salary for each executive Director within a range The total compensation package for on-target performance should having regard to the market median for similar roles in large be fully competitive in the relevant market: publicly quoted companies.
Salaries for individual Directors are Packages are structured flexibly to meet critical resource needs reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee recognising and retain key executives.
individual performance and contribution and developments in the relevant employment market.
The Committee seeks to take a prudent and responsible approach taking into account the interests of shareholders, customers, The non-salary benefits for executive Directors comprise the use of employees and the local community.
a motor car, fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and an incapacity benefits scheme.
25 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 Annual bonus plan Total shareholder return Executive Directors are eligible for annual bonuses to encourage 140 improved performance, measured by reference to both financial and 120 non-financial factors.
Performance targets are established by the Committee.
The maximum amount payable under the bonus 100 scheme in 2003 2004 was 50% of base salary.
The performance requirements are stretching and involve an assessment of up to ten 80 parameters for each executive Director.
Annual bonus payments are 60 not taken into account in calculating pension entitlements.
The actual bonuses awarded by the Committee for the year ended 31 40 March 2004 are shown in the table of Directors emoluments on 20 page 29.
For the 2004 2005 financial year the bonus potential for the Group Chief Executive will be 60% and for the Managing 0 Director of Biffa Mr M J Bettington will be 75%.
The bonus 99 00 01 02 03 04 potential for other executive Directors remains at 50%.
Year ended March Severn Trent Plc FTSE 100 Index Long-term incentives Source: Thomson Financial.
A Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for executive Directors was approved by shareholders at the 1997 Annual General Meeting This graph looks at the value, by 31 March 2004, of 100 invested and amended with shareholder approval at the 2001 Annual in the company on 31 March 1999 compared with the value of General Meeting.
100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 was chosen as the comparator because the company is a constituent of The performance for the 2001, 2002 and 2003 LTIPs is measured that index.
by reference to a combination of Total Shareholder Return TSR and Economic Profit EP targets.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
The maximum allocation that may be made to an individual executive Director in any year is such number of shares as have a Post-retirement benefits market value equal to 100% of base salary.
Shares are allocated The companys policy is to offer all executive Directors membership annually by the Committee but are not released to executive of the Senior Staff Pension Scheme the Scheme.
All current Directors for a period of three years thereafter, provided that the TSR executive Directors participate in the Scheme.
has achieved a prescribed ranking in comparison with a number of selected comparator companies and that the EP targets have also The Scheme is a funded Inland Revenue approved final salary been met.
The performance criteria are specific to each Award.
For occupational pension scheme which provides: the performance periods effective from 1 April 2001, 1 April 2002 and 1 April 2003, Mr R M Walker received an allocation of shares A normal retirement age of 60 years: equivalent to 100% of his salary and the remaining executive An overall pension at normal retirement age of two-thirds of final Directors received allocations equivalent to 70% of their salaries.
pensionable salary, subject to the completion of 20 years For the 2004 award this will remain unchanged other than for pensionable service: Messrs J K Banyard and B Duckworth who will both receive an Life cover of 4 x pensionable earnings: allocation of 85% of their salaries.
A pension payable in the event of retirement on grounds of ill health: For the 2001 and 2002 Awards the comparator group consists of: A spouses pension on death.
AWG Plc, Kelda Plc, Pennon Group Plc, Shanks Plc, United Utilities Plc and Waste Recycling Group Plc.
For the 2003 Award, the The company has a future obligation in respect of Mr R M Walker comparator group additionally contains Northumbrian Water Plc.
and Mr A S Perelman, both of whom joined this Scheme after 1 June 1989 and are therefore subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap For the executive Directors the 2001, 2002 and 2003 LTIP awards 2003 2004: 99,000, to pay the difference between their pension will be triggered if the companys TSR performance is at the median entitlement based upon the relevant portion of their salary and the or above and the EP meets the scaled targets set.
EP is calculated maximum amount payable had the cap not been in place.
The by reference to a post tax rate of return of 7.5%.
It is envisaged that obligation is unfunded.
an LTIP award will be made in 2004 and this will be subject to similar performance targets.
Forward-looking statement The Committee will keep the existing remuneration arrangements, as The performance period for allocations of shares made in 2001 detailed in this report, under review during the next year to ensure ended on 31 March 2004.
The Remuneration Committee has that the companys reward programmes remain competitive and determined, based on the companys TSR and EP performance over provide appropriate incentives.
No significant changes to the reward the three year performance period, that the executive Directors are arrangements for executive Directors are anticipated.
However, as entitled to 100% of the shares allocated.
usual there will be individual reviews of base salary, annual bonus and LTIP awards.
The performance targets for incentive arrangements will also be reviewed to ensure alignment with the group strategy and the Committee also intends to review the ongoing operation of the LTIP in the course of the forthcoming financial year.
Value 26 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors service agreements and letters of engagement The new service agreements will also provide for a maximum The current policy of the Committee is that executive Directors are damages payment in the case of redundancy or termination in employed on contracts subject to no more than 12 months notice, breach of the agreement by the company of up to 175% of base in accordance with current corporate governance best practice.
salary which was calculated as a conservative pre-estimate of the The executive Directors are required to give not less than six value of salary, fixed benefits and on target bonus.
Any damages months notice of termination 12 months in the case of the Group payments will not be made automatically and will be subject to Chief Executive.
It will also take into account a view of the extent of poor performance on the part of the executive Director.
The current executive Directors, other than Mr M J Bettington, are all The liquidated damages payment will not include awards which have scheduled to leave on, or before, 31 March 2005, therefore, by that been made under the companys LTIP over which the Committee date the above contractual arrangements will cease.
Going forward, retains absolute discretion.
There are no specific contractual it is intended that the appointments for all new executive Directors, payments or benefits which would be triggered in the event of a and also in the case of Mr Bettington, will be on the basis of 12 change in control of the company.
months notice by either party.
Total fees for Mr J B Smith represent fees due but not yet paid.
2 With the exception of Messrs C S Matthews and J B Smith, all non-executive Directors received a proportion of their total fees by way of shares in the company.
The gross value of those awards is included in the table above.
Non-executive Directors who were either appointed or resigned during the year received time apportioned awards where applicable.
The number of shares received by each non-executive Director during the year was: Mr T D G Arculus 824: Ms M L Cassoni 228: Mr M C Flower 228: Dr J D G McAdam 228: Mr F A Osborn 228: Mr M J Houston 133: Mr E E Anstee 114: and Mrs C Tritton 70.
3 Benefits in kind for executive Directors comprise the use of a motor car, fuel, private medical insurance, life assurance and an incapacity benefits scheme.
4 Other emoluments represent expenses chargeable to UK income tax paid to Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board who approved the Remuneration Report on 7 June 2004 M C Flower Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Key dates in 2004 anyone who wishes to buy or sell Severn Trent Plc shares by Dividends ordinary shares telephone, Internet or post.
To obtain further information see 16 June 2004 Ex-dividend date for final dividend contact details in the left-hand column.
18 June 2004 Record date for final dividend Unsolicited mail 1 October 2004 Payment of final dividend We are obliged, whenever requested, to provide copies of our Shareholder communications shareholder register to any third parties so it is quite likely that you 27 July 2004 Annual General Meeting at the National may receive unsolicited mail from time to time.
Exhibition Centre, Birmingham You can limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive by November 2004 Announcement of half year results contacting: Annual General Meeting The Mailing Preference Service The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Tuesday 27 Freepost 22 July 2004 at the National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham.
The Notice London W1E 7EZ of the Meeting and a form of proxy are enclosed with this Review.
Forward-looking statements Registrars This document contains certain forward-looking statements with Lloyds TSB Registrars are the companys share registrars and they respect to Severn Trents financial condition, results of operations will deal with any queries you may have regarding: and business and certain of Severn Trents plans and objectives Shareholdings with respect to these items.
Dividends Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, Lost share certificates identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as Change of name or address anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, expects, Death of a shareholder believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates.
Request for the full Report and Accounts By their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently If you wish to have your dividends paid directly into your bank or unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because building society account you should contact the registrars and they they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur will send you a dividend mandate form.
Alternatively, you will find a in the future.
form of mandate attached to your last dividend mailing which you There are a number of factors that could cause actual results and may complete and return to the registrars.
Please note you will still developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied receive tax vouchers at your usual address.
These factors include, but are Their contact details are: not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the Lloyds TSB Registrars group operates: changes in the regulatory and competition The Causeway frameworks in which the group operates: the impact of legal or other Worthing proceedings against or which affect the group: and changes in West Sussex BN99 6DA interest and exchange rates.
You can also ring them on the Severn Trent dedicated telephone All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this line: 0870 600 3967. document or made subsequently, which are attributable to Severn Alternatively, if you have access to the Internet, you can look directly Trent or any other member of the group or persons acting on their at details of your shareholder account by visiting behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors www.
This is a service offered by Lloyds TSB referred to above.
Severn Trent does not intend to update these Registrars that enables you to check your holdings in many UK forward-looking statements.
companies and helps you to organise your investments Not an offer electronically.
You can register for this free portfolio service by This document is not an offer to sell, exchange or transfer any logging onto www.
co. uk and following a simple registration securities of Severn Trent Plc or any of its subsidiaries and is not process.
soliciting an offer to purchase, exchange or transfer such securities Electronic proxy appointments in any jurisdiction.
Securities may not be offered, sold or transferred For this years Annual General Meeting you may, if you wish, register in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging onto the from the registration requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933 website www.
You will need your voting reference as amended.
numbers the three 8 digit numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively if you have registered for a Shareview portfolio, log onto www.
com your portfolio at www.
co. uk and click on Company Shareholders are likely to find the Financial Performance section of Meetings.
Please note that any electronic communication that is particular interest, containing a range of shareholder information found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
such as detailed coverage of our share price, dividend payments, key dates, our registrars as well as corporate, financial and Crest members may appoint a proxy electronically via Lloyds TSB environmental news releases and City presentations.
Our Annual Review and Annual Report and Accounts are available Low cost dealing service on the website, accessed directly via Lloyds TSB Registrars also offer a low cost dealing service for www.
com reports2004 28 Severn Trent Plc Annual Review 2004 We are constantly looking at how best to provide the information our stakeholders need quickly and cost effectively.
We also seek to minimise the resources used wherever possible.
If you are a shareholder you can do your bit.
If you currently receive the full Annual Report and Accounts why not consider switching to the Annual Review only?
You can still view or download a copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts on-line at www.
You can also elect not to receive paper copies of the Annual Report and other shareholder documents.
Instead you will receive an email containing a link to a website, where electronic copies of the documents can be viewed or downloaded.
Please call Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3967 to request the Annual Review only or to register for e-delivery.
You can find out more about Severn Trent and the businesses within our group by visiting our websites.
com provides information about the group, including our corporate responsibility activity and shareholder information.
You can find out about the products and services we offer by visiting our business sites: www.
co. uk For more information about Severn Trent Plc and its businesses see our website www.
Designed and produced by Tayburn Severn Trent Plc 2297 Coventry Road Birmingham B26 3PU United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 121 722 4000
