55 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 December 2003 has been restated for a change in pension scheme presentation as described in note 22d.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company and each of its subsidiary undertakings after eliminating all significant inter-company transactions and balances.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passed.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, representing any excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life up to a maximum of twenty years.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 31 December 1997 and earlier periods has been written off against reserves on acquisition, in accordance with the accounting standard then in force.
As permitted by the current accounting standard, the goodwill previously written off to reserves has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
On disposal of a previously acquired business, the attributable amount of goodwill previously written off to reserves is included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
No profit and loss account is presented for SIG plc, as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Companys profit for the financial year was 23,059,000 2003 profit : 46,344,000.
All recognised gains and losses are accounted for in either the Companys Profit and Loss Account or the Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Turnover Turnover represents the invoiced value of sales net of allowances and value added tax in the normal course of business.
Pension costs The Company operates six defined benefit pension schemes.
The full service cost of the pension schemes is charged to operating profit.
The finance cost of liabilities and expected return on assets are shown as a net amount of other finance charges or credits on the face of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
Both the service cost and the finance charges or credits are included as part of staff pension costs in note 5.
The actuarial gain loss is charged through the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses and is made up of the difference between the expected return on assets and those actually achieved, the difference between the actuarial assumptions for liabilities and actual experience in the period and any changes in the assumptions used in the valuations.
Under FRS 17 Retirement benefits, the pension scheme assets are measured using fair values whilst the pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted using an appropriate discount rate.
The pension scheme deficit is recognised in full, net of deferred tax, and presented on the face of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In the prior year, two book reserved schemes operated in Germany and France were reported within other provisions.
In 2004, in accordance with FRS 17, these are now included as part of the FRS 17 pensions liability.
The impact of this restatement is disclosed in note 22d.
Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as of the date of the transaction or where appropriate at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end or where appropriate at the rate of exchange in a related forward contract.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
56 SIG plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Foreign currency continued For the purpose of consolidation the closing rate method is used.
Profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated at the average rate and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening net assets and results of overseas operations and on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such operations, are reported in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
In the Company, where a direct relationship exists between a foreign currency investment and a foreign currency borrowing, the Company retranslates both the investment and the borrowing at the closing rate of exchange, with any movements being taken to the Company exchange reserve.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued unless by the balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on sale has been recognised in the financial statements.
Neither is deferred tax recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are shown at original cost to the Group less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of fixed assets on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold buildings period of lease Plant and machinery 3 to 8 years Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost including an appropriate proportion of attributable overheads and supplier rebates and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated normal selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving, or defective items where appropriate.
Leases and hire purchase agreements The cost of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase agreements is capitalised with an equivalent liability categorised as appropriate under creditors falling due within or after one year.
The asset is depreciated over its useful life.
Rentals under finance leases and hire purchase agreements are apportioned between finance costs and reduction of the liability and the finance costs are charged in arriving at the profit on ordinary activities.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Property provisions The Group makes provisions in respect of onerous leasehold property contracts and leasehold dilapidation commitments where it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle a present obligation.
