2004 SkyePharma Annual Report 21 International Financial Reporting Standards The 2004 consolidated financial statements have been prepared under UK IAS 19: Employee benefits Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP, SkyePharmas historic In accordance with IFRS1, the Group expects to elect to fully recognise all primary reporting GAAP.
From 1 January 2005 SkyePharma is required to actuarial gains and losses on its pension scheme in France at 1 January prepare its consolidated financial statements under International Financial 2004, its transition date to IFRS.
Subject to the endorsement by the Reporting Standards IFRS.
These standards represent a significant change European Union of IAS 19 revised, ongoing actuarial gains and losses will from UK GAAP.
While SkyePharmas first published IFRS financial statements be recognised in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expenditure.
will be its interim results for June 2005, guidance is provided below as to the key differences that the Group expects to arise on the adoption of IFRS.
IAS 32 and IAS 39: Financial Instruments The Group intends to communicate further details of the impact of adopting One of the exemptions available under IFRS1 relaxes the requirement IFRS on the 2004 results during the first half of 2005. to present comparative information on financial instruments for 2004 in the 2005 financial statements.
The Group does not anticipate utilising Assumptions this exemption, and expects to retrospectively apply IAS 32 Financial The financial impact of the transition to IFRS has been assessed based upon Instruments: Disclosure and presentation and IAS 39 Financial the assumption that all IFRS standards issued by the International Accounting Instruments: Recognition and Measurement which for many financial Standards Board IASB that are effective for 2005 reporting are endorsed instruments will be fair value.
At present, the European Commission has not endorsed all of these standards.
Although the IASB has issued all standards IAS 21: The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates that will be compulsory for the year ended 31 December 2005, some new An exemption offered by IFRS 1 in respect of IAS 21 The Effects of standards may be available for early adoption, changes are still anticipated Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates gives the Group the option to reset to others and the interpretation and application of certain recently revised its cumulative translation differences to zero at 1 January 2004, its date standards is still being debated.
Therefore the current position with respect of transition.
The Group does not expect to take this exemption, and will to IFRS may be subject to change.
continue to include its cumulative translation differences within equity.
This is because the information is readily available and will be consistent Transition Date and Comparative Information with its reporting under US GAAP.
The IASB issued IFRS 1 First time adoption of international financial reporting standards in June 2003.
This deals with how companies will have to apply Key differences IFRS for the first time.
IFRS 1 requires that comparative information be The key differences that the Group expects to arise on the adoption restated for all years that a full set of comparatives is provided.
Therefore, of IFRS are: the Groups IFRS transition date is 1 January 2004. revenue recognition differences in respect of up front payments: IFRS 1 Exemptions accounting for the sale of royalty interests to Paul Capital: In general a Group is required to determine its IFRS accounting policies and the inclusion of a fair value charge in respect of outstanding employee apply these retrospectively to determine its opening balance sheet, in our case share options: at 1 January 2004, under IFRS at its transition date.
However IFRS 1 permits the cessation of amortisation of goodwill : those companies adopting IFRS for the first time to take some exemptions accounting for convertible bonds: and from the full requirements of IFRS in the transition period.
the capitalisation of certain research and development costs.
The key IFRS 1 transitional provisions the Group proposes to adopt are Revenue Recognition outlined below.
Under IFRS SkyePharma will adopt a revenue recognition policy in accordance with IAS 18 which is similar to that applied under US GAAP.
Under UK GAAP IFRS 3: Business combinations Skye has generally recognised up front payments immediately in full where A first time adopter has the option not to restate most aspects of past there are no material future obligations and the milestones are nonbusiness combinations and instead to apply IFRS 3 prospectively from the refundable, on the basis that the up front is a payment for past services.
It is expected that SkyePharma will elect this option.
In this Under IFRS generally up front payments will be deferred and amortised case goodwill would remain largely as under UK GAAP and amortisation on a systematic basis over the period of development to filing.
This is similar would stop at 1 January 2004, SkyePharmas proposed transition date.
to the treatment adopted under US GAAP.
However, the accounting for each agreement will need to be determined on an individual basis.
IFRS 2: Share based payments IFRS 2 applies to unvested equity instruments, such as share options, Sale of Royalty Interests granted since 7 November 2002 and not vested at 1 January 2005.
However Under IFRS SkyePharma will account for the sale of royalty interests to Paul under the transitional arrangements of IFRS 1, there is the option to adopt Capital on a similar basis to that under US GAAP.
Under IFRS the proceeds full retrospective application of the standard where companies have received from Paul Capital meet the definition of a financial liability under IAS previously publicly disclosed the fair value of those equity instruments 32, and will be treated as debt.
No other operating income will be recognised determined at the measurement date.
SkyePharma has previously disclosed under IFRS, royalties paid to Paul Capital will be treated as repayment of the those fair values in its US GAAP disclosures and expects to adopt full debt and interest will be charged on the debt.
Under UK GAAP the proceeds retrospective application.
received from Paul Capital are treated as a sale and recorded as other operating income and royalties are expensed when incurred.
22 SkyePharma Annual Report 2004 International Financial Reporting Standards continued Share Based Payments IFRS 2 requires that for share option awards to employees, the fair value of the employee services received should be measured by reference to the fair value of the share option at the grant date.
This is significantly different from the current treatment in the UK where the charge to the profit and loss account is based on the difference between the fair value of the shares at the date of grant and the exercise price.
Since SkyePharma has historically granted employee options where the share price at the date of grant equals the exercise price, there has been no charge to record.
The charge under IFRS will be the same as that previously disclosed under US GAAP standard FAS 123.
Goodwill Amortisation UK GAAP requires goodwill to be amortised over its estimated expected useful life which the Directors have determined is 20 years.
Under IFRS, goodwill is considered to have an indefinite life and so is not amortised, but is subject to annual impairment testing.
Therefore the annual goodwill charge made under UK GAAP will not be recorded under IFRS from 1 January 2004, the IFRS transition date.
Convertible Bond Under UK GAAP the net proceeds of the convertible bond issue were recorded as debt.
Under IFRS the convertible bonds will be bifurcated and the conversion option deducted from the debt and classified as equity.
This will lead to higher interest charges under IFRS than under UK GAAP.
Furthermore the Group is likely to record a one off gain or loss on the exchange of the 2005 bonds for the 2024 bonds.
No such gain or loss arises under UK GAAP.
Research and Development Under IFRS the Group is required to capitalise research and development when the criteria as laid out in IAS 38 are met.
The Group has reviewed its current projects and determined that the capitalisation of certain expenditure may be appropriate.
Future projects may lead to the capitalisation of further expenditure.
