ACCOUNTING POLICIES ACCOUNTING CONVENTION FREEHOLD PROPERTIES TAXATION The accounts have been prepared in These financial statements include Deferred tax is recognised in respect of accordance with the Companies Act 1985, certain properties at 1974 valuation, timing differences that have originated as amended and with all applicable financial less depreciation on the enhanced values but not reversed as at the balance sheet reporting and accounting standards under calculated in accordance with the policy date.
Timing differences are differences the historical cost convention modified to set out above.
The directors have decided to between the Groups taxable profits and include the revaluation of certain properties.
invoke the transitional provisions of FRS15 its results as disclosed in the financial Tangible Fixed Assets, and do not intend statements, arising from the inclusion BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION to revalue these properties every year.
of gains and losses in tax assessments in The consolidated financial statements periods different from those in which they include those of the parent company and LEASED PROPERTIES are recognised in the financial statements.
Where a leasehold property is vacant, or sub-let under terms such that the rental Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the The results of subsidiaries acquired during income is insufficient to meet all outgoings, retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries the year are consolidated from the date of provision is made for the anticipated future and associates only to the extent that, at acquisition.
Disposals are consolidated shortfall up to termination of the lease.
the balance sheet date, dividends have until the date of disposal.
been declared or an obligation is present STOCKS to distribute past earnings.
Deferred tax Up to 1 August 1998, goodwill arising on Stocks and work in progress are valued at is not recognised on any fixed assets that consolidation was set against reserves in the cost, including related production overheads, have been revalued unless there is a year of acquisition.
Goodwill impairment on reduced to estimated net realisable value binding agreement to sell the asset.
prospective disposals is recognised through where appropriate.
Profit is taken on longthe Profit and Loss Account.
term contracts by reference to the work POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS completed.
Provision for losses is made For defined benefit schemes, the cost of Goodwill arising from acquisitions after as soon as they are recognised.
benefits accruing during the year in respect 1 August 1998 is capitalised at cost, and of current and past service is charged against amortised on a straight-line basis over FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS operating profit.
The expected return on an estimated useful economic life of up Financial assets are recognised in the the schemes assets and the increase in to 20 years.
balance sheet at the lower of cost and net the present value of the schemes liabilities realisable value.
Discounts, premia and arising from the passage of time are included TURNOVER related costs of issue are charged or credited in other finance income.
Actuarial gains Turnover represents the invoiced amount of to the profit and loss account over the life of and losses are recognised in the statement goods sold and services provided during the the asset or liability to which they relate.
of total recognised gains and losses.
The year, after the deduction of trade discounts balance sheet includes the surplus deficit and sales related taxes, and the value of The Company uses derivative financial in schemes taking assets at their year-end work undertaken during the year on longinstruments to hedge its exposure to market values and liabilities at their term contracts.
fluctuations in interest rates and foreign actuarially calculated values discounted at exchange rates.
year-end AA corporate bond interest rates.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Expenditure, other than that recoverable Receipts and payments on interest rate Amounts charged in respect of defined from third parties, is written off in the year instruments are recognised on an accruals contribution schemes are the contributions in which it is incurred.
basis over the life of the instrument.
FIXED ASSETS Foreign currency assets and liabilities Depreciation is provided at rates estimated covered by forward contracts are translated to write off the relevant assets by equal at the contract rates of exchange.
Other annual amounts over their expected assets and liabilities in foreign currencies useful lives.
In general, the rates used are translated at closing rates.
are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2%, Short leasehold property over the FOREIGN CURRENCIES period of the lease, Plant, machinery, etc.
The profit and loss accounts of overseas 10% to 20%, Motor vehicles 25%, Tools subsidiaries are translated into sterling and other equipment 10% to 33%.
at average rates of exchange for the year.
Fixed assets held under finance leases are Exchange adjustments arising from the capitalised and depreciated in accordance retranslation of opening net assets in with the Companys depreciation policy.
The overseas subsidiaries and their results capital element of future lease payments is for the year at closing rates, and the included in creditors.
translation of foreign currency borrowings to match overseas investments, are taken to Payments made under operating leases the statement of total recognised gains and are charged to the profit and loss account losses.
All other exchange gains and losses as incurred over the term of the lease.
are taken to the profit and loss account.
20 SMITHS GROUP PLC DIRECTORS REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2004
