Notice of the Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Abbot Group Special Resolutions plc the Company will be held at Minto Drive, Altens, Aberdeen AB12 9.
That, the directors be and they are hereby generally empowered 3LW on 17 May 2005 at 11.00am for the following purposes:- pursuant to Section 95 of the Act:- Ordinary Business 9.1 subject to resolution 8 above being passed, to allot equity 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report, Auditors Report and securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004. of the Company for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 8: and 2.
To declare a final dividend of 3.2p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 December 2004 payable to eligible ordinary shareholders 9.2 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 3A on the register of members at the close of business on 6 May 2005. of the Act, 3.
To re-appoint as a director Peter J. Milne who has offered himself in either case, as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such for re-appointment in accordance with Article 97 of the Articles allotment provided that this power shall be limited:- of Association of the Company.
i to allotments of equity securities where such securities 4.
To re-appoint as a director Maurice A.
White who has offered have been offered whether by way of a rights issue, himself for re-appointment in accordance with Article 97 of the open offer or otherwise to holders of ordinary shares Articles of Association of the Company.
in the capital of the Company and, if in accordance with their rights as the directors so determine, holders of other 5.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the equity securities of any class made in proportion as nearly Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next General as may be to their existing holdings of ordinary shares Meeting at which accounts are laid.
as the case may be other equity securities of the class concerned so that any offer to holders of other equity 6.
To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration securities of any class shall be on the basis of their rights of the Auditors.
to receive such offer and, failing which, shall be on the basis that their holdings had been converted into or that Special Business they had subscribed for ordinary shares on the basis As Special Business, to consider and if thought fit, pass the then applicable but subject in either case to the directors following resolutions: having a right to make such exclusions or other arrangements in connection with such offering as they Ordinary Resolutions deem necessary or expedient:- 7.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report as set out on pages 28 to 31 of the Directors Report and Accounts.
a to sell, for the benefit of those shareholders who are citizens of or resident in any overseas territory where 8.
That, in substitution for any previous authority, the directors in the opinion of the directors it would at the time be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, of the offer be illegal by relevant law or unduly in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 costly or burdensome for the Company to make or the Act, to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant for those shareholders to accept an offer of equity securities as defined in that section up to a maximum aggregate securities of the Company, the equity securities to nominal amount of relevant securities of 8,791,812, being which they would otherwise be entitled, save that 33.33 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at the proceeds net of expenses of 3 or less due to 11 March 2005, to expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the any such shareholders may be retained for the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and the date fifteen benefit of the Company: and months after the passing of this resolution, but the Company may before this authority expires make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after this authority expires, and the Company may allot relevant securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
66 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 b to aggregate and sell for the benefit of the iv the Company may enter into one or more contracts to purchase Company all fractions of a share which may ordinary shares under this authority before this authority expires arise in apportioning the equity securities among which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry the original shareholders: and of the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
ii to allotments otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities having in the case of v this authority will unless renewed, varied or revoked expire relevant shares as defined in Section 94 of the Act a at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the nominal amount, or in the case of other securities, giving Company held after the date on which this resolution is passed the right to subscribe for or convert into relevant shares or, if earlier, on the date twelve months from the date of passing having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate of this resolution.
1,318,771, By order of the Board Alec W. J. Banyard and this power shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the Company Secretary next Annual General Meeting of the Company and the date fifteen 8 April 2005 months after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would Registered Office: or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry 3 Colmore Circus and the directors may allot equity securities pursuant to any such Birmingham B4 6BH offer or agreement as if the power conferred by this resolution had not expired.
Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting 1.
A holder of ordinary shares may appoint one or more proxies to attend, and 10.
That, in accordance with Article 50 of the Articles of Association on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the of the Company and Chapter VII of Part V of the Act and subject Company.
Completed forms of proxy must be lodged at the address shown to the following provisions of this Resolution, the Company be on the form of proxy not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
Ordinary and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant shareholders who have lodged proxy forms are not thereby prevented from to Section 166 of the Act to make market purchases within the attending the meeting and voting in person if so desired.
meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of any of its own ordinary 2.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders shares of 15p each on such terms and in such manner as the a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion directors of the Company may from time to time determine of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority provided that:- is determined by the order in which the names of the holders stand in the register of members of the Company in respect of the joint holding.
i the maximum number of ordinary shares of 15p each authorised to be acquired is 17,583,624 representing just 3.
The following documents, which are available for inspection during normal under 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary capital business hours at Minto Drive, Altens, Aberdeen AB12 3LW public holidays as at 11 March 2005 : excepted will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 10.45am on 17 May 2005 until the conclusion ii the minimum price which may be paid for each ordinary of the Annual General Meeting:- share is 15p exclusive of expenses : 3.1 The register of directors and their families in the share capital of the Company: and iii unless a tender or partial offer is made to all holders of the ordinary shares on the same terms, the maximum price 3.2 copies of all directors service contracts and contracts of appointment exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary between the directors and the Company.
share is, in respect of a share contracted to be purchased on 4.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001, any day, to be not more than 5 per cent above the average the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members of the middle market quotation of an ordinary share of the in order to have the right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting Company taken from the Daily Official List of London Stock is 11.00am on 15 May 2005 being not more than 48 hours prior to the time Exchange plc for the five business days immediately preceding fixed for the Annual General Meeting or, if the Annual General Meeting the day on which the contract of purchase is made.
is adjourned, such time being not more than 48 hours prior to the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
ABBOT GROUP plc 67 Notes 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 navyblue design group edinburgh Abbot Group plc Minto Drive, Altens, Aberdeen AB12 3LW, Scotland, UK T: 44 0 1224 299 600 F: 44 0 1224 230 400 www.
