Spirent plc Annual Report 2004 15 Corporate governance Auditors The Directors statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 16 A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorising to 18.
The Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of preparing the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the the accounts appears below.
By Order of the Board Going concern After making enquiries, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable Paul Eardley expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in Company Secretary operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the 24 February 2005 going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the Accounts.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 4 May 2005 at The Copthorne Hotel London Gatwick, Copthorne Way, Copthorne, Crawley, West Sussex RH10 3PG, United Kingdom.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The Companies Act 1985 requires directors to prepare accounts for each The directors are responsible for: accounting period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable the Company and the Group at the end of the accounting period and of accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the accounts Group and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the directors are required to: the Companies Act 1985: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and make judgements and estimates that are both reasonable and prudent: to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, the Companys website.
Financial information published on the website subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained in is based on legislation in the UK governing the preparation and the notes to the accounts.
dissemination of accounts that may be different from comparable legislation in other jurisdictions.
