Operating Statement Units Distributed TWh 04 42.5 03 41.2 At the heart of Scottish and Southern 02 40.8 01 40.2 Energys strategy is the belief that the 00 38.6 highest priority should always be attached to managing existing businesses well Units Supplied TWh 04 39.4 through seeking operational excellence.
03 35.8 The effective management of all operations 02 38.2 throughout SSE is the best means of 01 42.1 00 34.8 achieving a financial performance which allows the delivery of long-term and sustainable real growth in the dividend.
Southern Electric Power Distribution was the benchmark company and was not given Power Systems any company-specific actions by the DTIPower Systems is responsible for managing commissioned report into power systems The effective one electricity transmission network and emergencies published at the end of 2002. management of all two electricity distribution networks.
In Nevertheless, it has implemented a number operations throughout total, the networks comprise 124,000km of initiatives to improve further the SSE is the best means of overhead lines and underground cables, resilience of the electricity network in the delivering electricity to 3.4 million of delivering a financial future.
For example, falling trees or properties across 30% of the UKs clashing branches are a major source of performance which allows land mass.
supply interruptions during windy weather the delivery of long-term conditions.
To improve performance in this and sustainable real SSEs objective is to manage the area, SSE has started employing directly growth in the dividend.
consequences of the growth in demand most of the people involved in tree cutting.
for electricity and ensure the network has This is also in line with SSEs general the minimum number of faults and the approach that operations and services are maximum robustness in the face of severe best managed and delivered by people who weather and other supply interruption risks.
are directly employed by the company.
It is also important to automate networks so that when supply is interrupted, it can In the Scottish Hydro Electric Power be restored as soon as possible.
The Distribution and Transmission area, another programme of investment is designed with 2,350km of high voltage overhead lines these goals in mind.
have been refurbished, along with 185km of low voltage lines.
The programme of In line with this, a total of 147.9m was network automation has also continued, invested in the electricity networks in the with another 15 urban substations year, taking the total investment to completed, together with 260 new 602.9m since the current price control remotely-controlled rural switches.
Efficientlymade investment of this kind upgrades the The average number of minutes of lost electricity network and reinforces the value supply per customer in the Scottish Hydro of the Regulated Asset Base which, in turn, Electric area was 83, which excludes the supports the ongoing value of the Power effects of the Hogmanay storm.
compares with 87 during 2002 03 and is well within the targets set by Ofgem In the Southern Electric Power Distribution under its IIP.
area, the programme to upgrade and refurbish the network continued during One of the key performance measures which 2003 04, with 1,000km of high voltage SSE applies is the percentage of high overhead lines and 760km of low voltage voltage faults which achieve first customer lines refurbished.
The substantial restoration within 60 minutes of occurring.
programme of network automation has The speed with which customers have continued, with another 69 urban their supplies restored following a fault substations completed, together with 980 is an extremely important element of new remotely-controlled rural switches, customer service.
allowing for faster restoration of supply to customers.
There has also been A number of actions must be carried out significant investment in the underground in the first 60 minutes after a fault occurs, network, with 49km of high voltage including diagnosing the likely location of cable replaced.
the fault, contacting field staff who may be at home out of hours, travelling to The average number of minutes of lost the location, carrying out a complete supply per customer in the Southern Electric risk assessment and undertaking the first area was 81.
This compares with 82 switching operations.
In 2002 03, first minutes during 2002 03, excluding the restoration of supply to customers within October 2002 storm, and is well within the 60 minutes was achieved in 80% of faults: targets set by Ofgem under its Information in 2003 04 that improved to 85%.
During 2003 04, SSE undertook extensive environmental studies and public Scottish and Southern Energy plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating Statement continued Against this background, SSEs leadingedge generation portfolio has been consultation in order to assist the selection expanded and will continue to expand over of the route for the new transmission line the next few years.
The balance of the connecting the Highlands and the central equity interests in Medway Power were belt of Scotland.
This line has to be built if acquired for 241.1m in November 2003. national targets for the generation of SSE already owned 37.5% of the equity electricity from renewable sources are to interests and so became the sole owner of be achieved.
It aims to begin constructing the business, which comprises a 688MW the new line during 2005, subject to timely combined cycle gas turbine CCGT power progress of the planning application and station in Kent.
The acquisition enabled final agreement on the regulatory SSE to add another modern, flexible and framework for the investment.
efficient power station to its portfolio.
A number of operational synergies have Generation been achieved and the process of SSE owns and operates over 5,700MW of integrating the Medway station into SSEs electricity generation capacity, comprising generation portfolio is now complete.
almost entirely gas-fired and hydro-electric As expected, it enhanced earnings in its power stations.
The gas-fired power stations first five months of ownership, adding have consistently maintained the highest around 13m to profit before tax.
thermal efficiency among major UK generators, meaning they use less fuel In addition, SSE purchased a 120MW to generate electricity.
SSE is also the CCGT power station in Cardenden, Fife, UKs largest generator of electricity for 12.5m.
The plant began commercial from renewable sources.
Overall, this operation in 1998 and SSE intends to means that SSE has the lowest-carbon, spend up to 3m to further upgrade it SSEs gas-fired power non-nuclear generation portfolio amongst and reinforce its operational performance.
stations have all been major UK generators.
The acquisition of a smaller station such developed or refurbished as this provides further diversity of plant within the last decade and SSEs gas-fired power stations have all mix within SSEs generation portfolio, so use modern, reliable been developed or refurbished within the particularly in the mid-merit sector.
last decade and so use modern, reliable technology.
Their reliability is also The acquisition took the capacity of SSEs reliability is critical and supported by long-term service agreements power stations to over 5,700MW, giving during 2003 04 there was with the original equipment manufacturers, SSE the fifth largest portfolio of power particular emphasis on which means that the flexible management stations by installed capacity in the UK, reducing the number of of the plant has their endorsement and owning around 7.5% of the total.
unplanned outages at operational support.
Plant reliability is critical and during 2003 04 there was The decision, announced in November SSEs wholly-owned particular emphasis on reducing the 2003, to terminate two structural gas-fired power stations, number of unplanned outages at SSEs agreements, put in place at privatisation, and they fell by more wholly-owned gas-fired power stations, with Scottish Power from April 2005 than half.
and they fell by more than half.
means SSE will be able to deploy 642MW of additional efficient and flexible thermal Although the principal purpose of the generation capacity at Peterhead Power generation portfolio is to support SSEs Station in the new Great Britain-wide performance as a supplier of electricity, electricity trading arrangements.
In some of the output of power stations is sold addition, SSE will gain access to 115MW into wholesale, industrial and commercial of standby capacity at Peterhead, which is markets.
As a result of their flexibility, important in making sure that the UK is SSEs power stations are able to increase able to meet future peak demand for output rapidly and so achieve premium electricity.
Up to 360GWh of hydro output earnings by providing electricity at times previously made available to Scottish Power of peak demand and by decreasing output will also now be at SSEs disposal.
quickly in response to fast-changing energy trading conditions, as well as providing SSEs programme of investment in other services in the electricity balancing renewable energy continues to progress.
Against this background, however, The output of refurbished hydro-electric the core function of energy trading remains, power stations with capacity of up to 20MW for SSE, a means of managing risks and qualifies for Renewable Obligation minimising costs.
In total, SSE has 391MW of hydro-electric capacity in its subElectricity generation in the UK is changing 20MW stations.
Of this, a total of 275MW dramatically.
There are concerns that the was refurbished by 31 March 2004.
The UK will not have enough generation refurbishment of a further 90MW is capacity to meet peak demand in future expected to be completed during 2004 05. years.
The growth in renewable energy generation, which is expected over the SSEs total output qualifying for ROCs, next decade and beyond, will need to be including wind energy, was 916GWh, backed up by efficient, flexible, gas-fired compared with 186GWh in the previous power stations.
Based on average run off of water, Scottish and Southern Energy plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 ROC-qualifying output is expected to operation.
As well as having a high nameincrease further, to around 1,300GWh, awareness in their areas, these brands in 2004 05. are supported by SSEs commitment to delivering a high standard of customer SSE intends to remain the largest service and a wider range of energy-related generator of electricity from renewable products and services.
sources in the UK, and to that end has now secured planning permission to develop The leading study of customer satisfaction 169MW of new renewable energy capacity.
in electricity supply is carried out annually This includes consent to build what will be by JD Power.
It analyses key areas such one of the UKs largest onshore wind farms, as billing, payment, price and value.
SSE has secured a second successive year, SSE achieved planning permission for the development the highest customer satisfaction among of 7MW of new hydro-electric capacity at all electricity suppliers in the UK.
Fasnakyle, the output of which should qualify for ROCs.
Customer dissatisfaction is, of course, reflected in the number of complaints made Planning applications have been submitted to, and about, an organisation.
Despite its to the relevant authorities in respect of a significantly enlarged customer base, SSE further 120MW of new wind farm capacity.
secured a 23% reduction in the number The Highland Council has accepted that of complaints referred to energywatch the development of the 100MW hydrofor resolution.
Throughout 2003 04, electric station planned for Glendoe at SSE consistently had the lowest rate of Loch Ness should proceed and the planning complaints to energywatch about customer application is now with Scottish Ministers transfers and account and billing matters.
Performance in respect of direct selling While wind power is likely to be the complaints was generally better than the dominant renewable technology over the industry average across the year as a whole, next few years, the government has made but there was a small number of occasions it clear that key to realising the full when the expected high standards were not potential of renewables is the development maintained.
During the year, all energy of new technologies.
In line with this, sales representatives were given additional Renewable Technology Ventures Limited training in order to re-emphasise the RTVL, a joint venture between SSE and importance of a professional and The Weir Group, is investing in the ethical approach.
development of a tidal generating device.
Other marine generation opportunities are The way in which energy is marketed is being pursued by RTVL.
changing significantly, with suppliers focusing more on telephone contacts with In addition, SSE is working in partnership customers to provide opportunities to market with Talisman Energy on the possible energy products and related services, in development of the worlds first deep-water addition to the traditional doorstep selling offshore wind farm.
The proportion of new customers attracted financial support from the gained by SSE through these service-based Scottish Executive, the DTI and the EU.
approaches is now almost half.
The cost of acquiring new customers through serviceSupply based activities is around one quarter of that SSEs energy supply SSEs energy supply business is now larger incurred in doorstep sales.
business is now larger than ever before.
It has grown from 4.55m than ever before.
It has customers at the end of 2001, when the full It is important to maximise the value to grown from 4.55m integration of its IT systems was completed, be derived from the enlarged customer customers at the end to 5.55m, a net gain of around one million base that SSE has built up in recent years.
of 2001, when the full customers.
This includes more than This is being achieved by strengthening 300,000 customers acquired from Atlantic relationships with customers through the integration of its IT Electric & Gas in April 2004.
There was development of core energy products and systems was completed, also a net gain of business customers providing a range of additional energyto 5.55m, a net gain covering around 45,000 sites throughout related products and services from other of around one million Great Britain in 2003 04, including parts of SSE, such as domestic appliances customers.
contracts to supply renewable energy to the and electrical contracting services.
Scottish Executive and Manchester City Council.
In total, SSEs business customers The government has announced new now cover more than 320,000 sites rules allowing some energy supply throughout Great Britain.
customers to choose a longer contract than the standard 28 days and, in return, This organic growth emphasises the clear receive energy efficient products and value in SSEs Southern Electric, SWALEC services from their supplier such as and Scottish Hydro Electric brands, which house insulation, energy efficient boilers have all been successful in retaining and and domestic appliances, or low-energy attracting a higher-than-average number light bulbs.
With established electrical of customers in their traditional areas of contracting and retail businesses, Scottish and Southern Energy plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating Statement continued Gas Storage SSE entered the gas storage business in SSE is well-placed to build on this September 2002 with the acquisition of the opportunity over the next few years.
UKs largest onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea for 132.7m, along with the rights Contracting and Connections to develop additional storage at an adjacent SSEs contracting business comprises site at Aldbrough.
The value of gas storage mainly Southern Electric Contracting facilities is determined by capacity and by SEC and Thermal Transfer.
SEC also the rates at which gas can be injected into trades as Hydro Contracting in Scotland and withdrawn from the facility.
The capacity and SWALEC Contracting in Wales, at Hornsea is 326 million cubic metres.
thus benefiting from the strengths of the Two million cubic metres can be injected into regional brands.
it, and 18 million cubic metres withdrawn from it, daily.
On this basis, it operates as a The contracting business has four main tool for meeting peak demand for gas.
areas of activity: industrial, commercial and domestic electrical contracting: Demand for gas storage facilities in the UK electrical and instrumentation engineering: continues to be high and SSE has entered street and highway lighting: and specialist into new contracts to provide storage at a contracting for the turnkey design, significantly higher value than the legacy build, and refurbishment of facilities contracts it inherited when Hornsea was requiring a controlled environment.
All capacity for 2004 05 was sold before 31 March 2004.
Its growth strategy is built on client development and maximising repeat Over the next few years, a projected business, which means there is a strong focus decline in UK gas production is expected to Over the next few years, on delivering a high standard of service.
In increase the need for additional gas storage a projected decline in line with this, it signed new contracts with capacity.
Against this background, SSE has UK gas production is existing customers such as Foster Wheeler entered into a joint venture with Statoil expected to increase the and Exxon Mobil during the year.
UK to develop the UKs largest onshore gas storage facility, at Aldbrough.
It will need for additional gas At the same time, it is exploiting feature nine gas salt caverns, with a total storage capacity.
Against opportunities for new streams of business new capacity of around 420 million cubic this background, SSE and, working in partnership with the asset metres, of which SSE will have the has entered into a joint finance division of The Royal Bank of ownership interest in 280 million cubic venture with Statoil Scotland, it has signed contracts worth metres.
Overall, each day, SSE will be able UK to develop the around 350m to replace and maintain street to import 14 million cubic metres of gas lights for three local authorities in England, into Aldbrough and deliver 26 million UKs largest onshore under the Private Finance Initiative.
SEC is cubic metres of gas from the facility.
gas storage facility, the UKs largest street lighting contractor, at Aldbrough.
and is now responsible for maintaining more Proceeding with the development on this than one million lighting units, around one basis will require total investment by SSE fifth of the UKs total.
Work on the development has started, and the first part of the new The different parts of the contracting facility is expected to be operational from business also work together to provide 2007.
It will, therefore, secure for SSE a a more complete service for customers.
significantly enhanced presence in the UK For example, SEC and Thermal Transfer gas storage market.
worked together on a 2.1m contract to design and construct mechanical and Telecoms engineering services to two fabrication Since the acquisition of Neoscorp Ltd halls in VT Shipbuildings new shipyard Neos for a net consideration of 9.7m in Portsmouth.
in April 2003, SSEs telecoms business has managed a Great Britain-wide telecoms The connections business is involved in a network of around 7,000km.
In addition, range of utility-related activities for leading the business manages 15,000 sites mainly UK housebuilders, business premises and installed on SSEs own electricity major industrial customers, such as infrastructure in the Scottish Hydro Electric electrical connections, local electricity and Southern Electric areas.
It provides infrastructure and gas networks.
During network and infrastructure capacity and 2003 04 it completed 43,000 electrical other services to over 400 commercial and connections.
In addition, it continued to public sector organisations.
expand its portfolio of out-of-area electricity networks.
For example, it has In March 2004 it was announced that won the 4m contract to provide, own and Neos is one of 17 service providers operate the electricity network for the nation-wide that has been chosen by the Tilfens Land development at Thamesmead.
Department of Trade and Industry to take The rate of connecting new premises to its part in its Broadband Aggregation Project gas networks continued to grow, and during BAP, a scheme established to increase 2003 04 it connected a further 5,000 broadband availability and value for money premises, taking the total to 20,000. for the taxpayer.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
