Notice of Meeting Notice of Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the FIFTEENTH a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Scottish and Southern rights to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as Energy plc will be held at the Bournemouth International may be practicable to their respective holdings of such shares, Centre, Exeter Road, Bournemouth, BH2 5BH on Thursday, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the 29 July 2004 at 12 noon for the following purposes: Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems To consider and, if thought fit, pass resolutions 1 to 10 and under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any 14 as ordinary resolutions, and resolutions 11 to 13 and 15 regulatory body or stock exchange: and as special resolutions: b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up to Resolution 1 an aggregate nominal amount of 21,436,740: to receive the Accounts and the Reports of the Directors and the auditors for the financial year ended 31 March 2004. and shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company after the passing of this resolution Resolution 2 save that the company may before such expiry make an offer to approve the Remuneration Report for the financial year or agreement which would or might require equity securities to ended 31 March 2004. be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement Resolution 3 notwithstanding that the power conferred hereby has expired.
to declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004 of 26.4 pence per ordinary share.
This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of Resolution 4 the Act as if in the first paragraph of this resolution the to elect Kevin Smith as a Director of the company.
words pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 were omitted.
Resolution 5 to re-elect Henry Casley as a Director of the company.
Resolution 12 that, pursuant to Article 12 of the Articles of Association, the Resolution 6 company be and is generally and unconditionally authorised for to re-elect Ian Marchant as a Director of the company.
the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the Resolution 7 meaning of section 163 3 of the Act on the London Stock to re-elect Alistair Phillips-Davies as a Director of the company.
Exchange of ordinary shares of 50p each in the capital of the company provided that: Resolution 8 that KPMG Audit Plc be appointed auditors of the company i the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the purchased is 85,746,962 representing 10 per cent of the conclusion of the next general meeting at which the accounts companys issued ordinary share capital: are laid before the company.
ii the minimum price which may be paid for such shares Resolution 9 is 50p per share which amount shall be exclusive that the Directors be authorised to determine the auditors of expenses: remuneration.
iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary Resolution 10 share shall not be more than five per cent above the that the Directors be and they are hereby generally and average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 80 of share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily the Companies Act 1985 to exercise the powers of the Official List for the five business days immediately company to allot relevant securities as defined within that preceding the date on which the ordinary share is section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 142,917,261 purchased: provided that this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company after the iv unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the passing of this resolution save that the company may before authority hereby conferred shall expire on the conclusion such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might of the companys next Annual General Meeting or 15 require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and months from the date of passing of this resolution, if the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of earlier: and such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred hereby has expired.
v the company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby Resolution 11 conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will that subject to the passing of resolution 10 the Directors be or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of and they are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities as shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
defined in section 94 of the Act wholly for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: Scottish and Southern Energy plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Resolution 13 that the Articles of Association of the company be amended as follows: i in Article 8 A method of varying class rights after issued shares of the class in each place where those words appear insert excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares : ii in Article 50 B disenfranchisement, in sub-paragraph b, after their class insert excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares : iii in Article 59 period of notice, in sub-paragraph b, after that right insert excluding any shares in the company held as treasury shares : iv in Article 69 methods of voting : a in sub-paragraph c after meeting insert excluding any voting rights attached to any shares in the company held as treasury shares : b at the end of sub-paragraph d insert excluding any shares in the company conferring the right to vote at the meeting which are held as treasury shares : and v in Article 123 D adjusted capital and reserves, in subparagraph a after the company insert excluding any shares in the company held as treasury shares.
Resolution 14 that the Directors be authorised to amend: i the trust deed and rules of the Scottish and Southern Energy Employee Share Ownership Plan: and ii the rules of the Scottish and Southern Energy plc 2001 Sharesave Scheme, as set out in the marked-up copies which have been produced to the meeting and, for the purposes of identification, signed by the Chairman, to allow for the use of treasury shares to satisfy awards and options.
Resolution 15 that the Articles of Association of the company be amended by deleting Article 51 limitations on shareholdings in its entirety without any consequent renumbering of the other provisions of the Articles of Association.
By Order of the Board Registered Office: Vincent Donnelly Inveralmond House Company Secretary 200 Dunkeld Road 15 June 2004 Perth PH1 3AQ Scottish and Southern Energy plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notice of Meeting Notice of Meeting continued Notes 1.
Only holders of ordinary shares on the register at 11.00 p. m. on 27 July 2004 may attend and vote in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
A shareholder of the company is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
A Proxy Form is enclosed with this Notice.
The Proxy Form, duly completed and signed, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof, must reach the registrar of the company, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS13 8FB, not later than 12 noon on 27 July 2004.
Alternatively, you can submit your proxy vote electronically.
Further information can be found in the Guidance Notes on the reverse of the Proxy Form.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the registered office of the company and save for documents i and ii below at the offices of Dundas & Wilson, 9th Floor, North West Wing, Bush House, Aldwych, London, WC2B 4EZ during normal business hours on any weekday public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the date of the Meeting and thereafter at the place of the Meeting from 11.45 a. m. until the conclusion of the Meeting: i the register of Directors share interests kept pursuant to section 325 of the Companies Act 1985: ii copies of Directors service contracts and non-Executive Directors appointment letters: iii the proposed amendments to the Share Incentive Plan: iv the rules of the Share Incentive Plan: v the proposed amendments to the Sharesave Scheme: vi the rules of the Sharesave Scheme: and vii the Articles of Association.
The Audited Accounts are set out on pages 32 to 55: the Remuneration Report is set out on pages 26 to 30: Details of the total dividend for this year are set out in the Directors Report on page 24: Directors biographical details are set out on page 22.
Information on the Directors seeking election and re-election is set out on page 24.
Further details regarding the election of Kevin Smith resolution 4 and the re-election of Henry Casley resolution 5 are set out on page 17.
Explanations of resolutions 10 to 15 are set out in the Directors Report on pages 24 and 25.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
