S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 N OTICE OF THE A NNUAL G ENERAL M EETING 2004 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 23rd Annual General Meeting of St Ives plc will be held at St Ives House, Lavington Street, London SE1 0NX on Wednesday 1 December 2004 at 11.00 a. m. for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements for the fty two weeks ended 30 July 2004 together with the reports of the directors and auditors.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the 2003 2004 financial year.
To declare a final dividend of 12.15p per ordinary share.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company.
To authorise the directors to x the remuneration of the auditors.
To re-elect Brian Edwards, who is retiring from ofce by rotation, as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Miles Emley, who is retiring from ofce by rotation, as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Simon Marquis as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Dame Sue Tinson as a director of the Company.
Special business To consider, and if thought t, to pass the following special resolutions: 10.
THAT the directors are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by ordinary resolution passed on 30 November 2000 for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any allotment provided that: a this power be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other offer of securities in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them but subject to such exclusions, exceptions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws or requirements of any government or recognised regulatory or statutory body or any stock exchange or otherwise in any territory: ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 515,000: b the power hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, unless renewed, extended, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting: c the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and d the power hereby conferred shall be in substitution for and to the exclusion of any earlier power conferred on the directors pursuant to Section 95 of the Act.
THAT authority is hereby generally and unconditionally conferred, pursuant to Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act for the Company to make market purchases as dened in Section 166 3 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares of 10p each in such manner and on such terms as the directors may from time to time determine provided that: a the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, unless renewed, extended, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting: 59 S T IVES PLC ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2004 N OTICE OF THE A NNUAL G ENERAL M EETING 2004 continued b the Company may before such expiry make any contract of purchase of its own ordinary shares of 10p each which would or might be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and shall be entitled to conclude such purchase after such date: c the maximum number of ordinary shares of 10p each hereby authorised to be acquired is 10,300,000 being approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on the date hereof: d the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share of 10p is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the closing middle market quotations for the ordinary shares of 10p each of the Company as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately prior to the date on which such share is contracted to be purchased and the minimum price is 10p, such prices being exclusive of expenses: and e the authority hereby conferred shall be in substitution for and to the exclusion of any earlier authority given to the Company pursuant to Section 166 of the Act.
By order of the board Philip Harris Secretary 1 November 2004 Notes 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
In order to be valid an appointment of a proxy must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting and be returned by one of the following methods.
Either in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxies, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU or, in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys Registrars ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Companys Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or had appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use by shareholders and, if appropriate, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, Proxies, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time of the AGM.
Appointment of a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending the AGM and voting in person.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, in order to be able to attend and vote at the AGM or any adjourned meeting, and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a person may cast, a person must have his her name entered on the register of members of the Company by no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Copies of the Directors service contracts with the Company and the register of interests of the directors and their families in the share capital of the Company are available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during normal business hours and will be available at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
Printed by St Ives Burrups 764753 15323 London Paris Luxembourg New York Philadelphia Washington DC Hong Kong Tokyo 60
