com Saltire Court 20 Castle Terrace Company number Edinburgh EH1 2ET SC 100764 Herbert Smith Registrars Exchange House Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland Primrose Street PO Box 28448 London EC2A 2HS Finance House Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Telephone 44 0 870 601 5366 Financial Calendar Merchant Bankers Annual General Meeting Noble Grossart Limited 27 August 2004 48 Queen Street Edinburgh EH2 3NH Final Dividend 6 October 2004 Auditors  LLP Interim Report Kintyre House December 2004 209 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LW Interim Dividend March 2005 Stockbrokers Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Limited In addition to the key dates shown above, a separate circular has been 1 Cabot Square sent to all shareholders which includes a proposed timetable for the issue London E14 4QJ and redemption of B Shares.
com SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Group Headquarters 10 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 5TW Scotland T 44 0 1738 442 111 F 44 0 1738 643 648 www.
com STAGECOACH GROUP PLC Company No.
strong year of growth and delivery of strategic objectives 142m 2003: 121m, excluding Citybus, Road King and Trainline.
turnover from continuing operations up 4.9% disposals.
operating margin improvement at continuing operations statutory operating profit 130m 2003: loss of 466m.
disposals of Citybus Hong Kong and non-core North American `.
profit before tax 120m 2003: 113m operations statutory profit before tax 96m 2003: loss of 500m.
disposals of non-core investments in Road King and Trainline.
earnings per share 6.7 pence 2003: 6.4 pence.
full year dividend up 11.5% at 2.9 pence 2003: 2.6 pence.
proposed return of approximately 250m capital to shareholders through issue of redeemable B shares equivalent to 18.0 pence per ordinary share excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items ` prior year included 15.1m of non-recurring gains on repurchase of bonds and 8.5m non-recurring liquidated damages at South West Trains UK Bus.
operating margin up to 11.5% from 11.2% including impact from increases in operating lease, National Insurance and pension costs.
passenger volumes up 1.4% outwith London North America Coach USA.
successful delivery of restructuring and disposal programme.
signs of recovery resulting in turnover from continuing operations up 5.1% in second half of year constant currency.
operating profit up 5.7% on significantly reduced turnover base Rail.
significant improvement in South West Trains operational performance.
first UK rail integrated control centre opened by South West Trains and Network Rail.
partner in shortlisted bids for East Coast and Integrated Kent franchises.
partnership with Virgin and Deutsche Bahn to bid for inter-city rail franchises excluding restructuring costs, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Contents 2 Chairmans statement 11 Summary directors report 15 Summary consolidated profit and loss account 3 Chief Executives review 12 Summary remuneration report 16 Summary consolidated balance sheet 4 Summary operating review 14 Independent auditors statement 16 Summary consolidated cash flow statement 10 Directors 14 Registered office and advisers 17 Shareholder information Stagecoach Group plc page 1 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a year of strong We welcome the Governments major review of the railways in the UK growth and demonstrated that we continue to lead the way in providing and, as part of the consultation process, we have made constructive innovative public transport services.
We have successfully delivered on the proposals to deliver the integration we believe is vital to the future of the strategy that we outlined to restructure our North American operations, rail network.
which has resulted in a more predictable business and contributed to a A key strategic priority in the months ahead is finalising the negotiation of very significant reduction in Group debt.
the CrossCountry and West Coast franchises, which at present continue to Stagecoach Group now has a core portfolio of bus and rail businesses in operate under annual budgets set by the Strategic Rail Authority SRA.
the UK and overseas, with strong cash generation.
Coupled with our solid We are pleased with the progress that is being made and negotiations financial position, I believe we have excellent potential to deliver good with the SRA are continuing towards concluding a detailed agreement in returns for shareholders.
due course that will put both franchises on a long-term commercial basis through to 2012.
Excluding the impact of disposed businesses, turnover grew We will also be focusing on our bid with Virgin and Deutsche Bahn for by 4.9% from 1,581.4m to 1.659.4m.
Operating profit before goodwill the new Inter-City East Coast franchise, which would be an excellent amortisation and exceptional items was 147.5m 2003: 146.4m.
addition to our rail portfolio.
In addition, we are bringing our UK operating Excluding the impact of the disposals of Citybus, Chongqing Bus, Road experience to the Danish State Railways bid for the new Integrated Kent King and Trainline, the equivalent operating profit grew from 121.0m to rail franchise and we will consider other opportunities in the inter-city and 141.9m.
Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional London commuter markets.
The reduction in operating profits as a Renewed dynamism at our UK Bus operations has seen Stagecoach lead result of disposals was offset by growth in our continuing businesses and the industry with innovative ideas to attract more people to public reduced finance charges reflecting the proceeds from disposals.
com, the UKs first low cost internet bus service, Last year, we stated our intention to pursue a progressive dividend policy.
encapsulates the entrepreneurial energy that drives the Group forward.
The Board of Directors is proposing a final dividend of 2.0p per share We have reported growth in operating profit and operating margin at our 2003: 1.8p, giving a total dividend for the year of 2.9p 2003: 2.6p.
In New Zealand, our business continues to This is an increase of 11.5% and reflects the Boards firm confidence in generate good operating profits and produce new ideas on the delivery of the future prospects for the Group.
The proposed final dividend of 2.0p bus services.
per share will be paid on 6 October 2004 to shareholders on the register at 10 September 2004.
I am delighted that the loyalty of our investors has been rewarded with a year of significant progress across the Group.
Our excellent performance is Consolidated net debt reduced by 492.4m in the year from 560.0m also the result of a committed contribution from our employees across down to 67.6m.
The significant reduction in net debt reflects the the whole Group.
Looking ahead, I believe there are good prospects for benefits of the strong cash generation from our core businesses, and the further growth and increased shareholder value from our portfolio of proceeds from the disposals of Citybus, Road King, Trainline and the businesses.
non-core parts of our North American operations.
As previously announced, the Board proposes to return approximately 250m of capital to shareholders in order to achieve a more efficient capital structure.
The Board believes that by adjusting the mix of equity and debt in the business, the Group can lower its overall cost of capital and generate further shareholder value.
We are therefore proposing, in addition to the final dividend of 2.0p, to issue one redeemable B Share for every ordinary share, which can be converted to cash of 18.0p per B Share.
Further details are provided in the separate circular sent to shareholders.
Robert Speirs All of the Groups core divisions have continued to trade well, particularly our Rail division where we have seen improved performance and further Chairman growth in passenger volumes.
The new three-year franchise at South West Trains has started well and is delivering good operating profits.
References to the operating profit of a particular division in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Summary operating review refer to operating profit before restructuring costs, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
page 2 Stagecoach Group plc Chief Executives review Stagecoachs development has always been driven by our ability to identify I am delighted that South West Trains has proved to be part of the new ideas and growth opportunities at an early stage and to deliver them solution by joining with the infrastructure operator, Network Rail, to open quickly.
I am delighted that this year we have demonstrated yet again that the UKs first integrated operations control centre at Waterloo station in we are at the cutting edge of new thinking in the provision of high London.
This has set the standard for similar centres elsewhere in the quality bus and rail services.
Similarly, both the Department for Transport and the Scottish Executive have adopted our Kick Start proposals for targeted funding to Innovation can only become a reality with strong, effective management support the introduction of new bus services.
We also welcome the and a team of talented and committed people that understand our Governments commitment to quality partnerships and structural stability customers needs.
These qualities have underpinned our progress and in the UK Bus industry.
success in the past 12 months as we attract more people to bus and rail The past year has seen the completion of a major restructuring of our travel and deliver increased value to our shareholders.
We now have an established core of more Our focus on new business development through investment in research is robust businesses, centred on our North East and North Central regions of driving growth, particularly in our UK Bus networks.
This year, we have the United States, and Canada.
As promised a year ago, the operating launched two UK transport firsts megabus.
com, the countrys first low profit of our North American business has been maintained on a cost internet bus network, and Yellow Taxibus, an innovative demand significantly smaller base of operations and I am confident the business responsive service in Fife, Scotland.
These projects are part of our strategy can make an increased contribution to earnings moving forward.
to tap into new markets and drive organic growth in our business.
In New Zealand, we had a particularly successful financial year in 2002 03 Megabus.
com is an excellent example of our ability to stay ahead of the as a result of the increased traffic associated with the Americas Cup yacht competition by researching, developing and implementing new ideas race in Auckland.
This year, without an uplift from such a major quickly.
Within less than a year, we have built an inter-city network that international event and despite a challenging operating environment, we covers more than 20 routes in Scotland, England and Wales.
Passenger have seen further passenger growth over our combined New Zealand numbers and revenues are ahead of our expectations.
operations, which continue to generate good returns for the Group.
We are working hard to refresh our provincial bus networks and have The Group has made a promising start to the current financial year and trading is in line with our expectations.
continued to invest in new vehicles during the year to 30 April 2004.
In London, where we operate a large number of contracts on behalf of Across all its businesses, Stagecoach has always retained a commitment to Transport for London TfL, we have grown turnover this year by over good environmental stewardship as part of its day-to-day public transport 19%.
Even with significant development of new services and increased cost provision.
We have set ourselves some challenging targets for the year pressures, we have increased our margins within our UK Bus division.
ahead as part of a new wide-ranging Group environmental policy.
Our trial of a next generation fuel additive product in our UK Bus division has Our Rail division has delivered an outstanding performance, with operating potential to deliver significant cuts in fuel consumption and vehicle profits up 15.4%.
The new three-year franchise at South West Trains has emissions that could have positive implications for the whole of the bus started positively.
Over the past year, there has been a notable reduction industry.
in the number of delay minutes attributed to South West Trains.
This step-change in quality is all the more impressive having been achieved The hard work and loyalty of all our people and their positive response to while managing the introduction of a new fleet of trains.
Passengers are our strategy has ensured Stagecoach has made a fast recovery.
Now that benefiting from record levels of investment as 40-year-old slam door we are firmly back on track, our challenge is to reposition the Group as a carriages are replaced by the state-of-the-art Desiro fleet.
leading UK-based public transport specialist and continue to generate growth and shareholder value.
I am confident the foundations we have At our joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, we have strengthened the put in place will ensure we are well placed for further success.
management team, which remains firmly focused on successfully renegotiating the West Coast and CrossCountry franchises.
Two-and-a-half years ago, Stagecoach launched its proposals for improved integration on the UK railways in our policy paper, A Platform for Change.
Gradually, our analysis of the issues and our thinking on the way forward for the countrys fragmented rail network has gathered support Brian Souter and we have updated these ideas as part of our contribution to the Governments rail review.
Chief Executive Stagecoach Group plc page 3 Summary operating review Partnership UK BUS Stagecoach continues to work closely with a range of stakeholders at local Overview and national level to improve the quality of bus provision.
We firmly Turnover in our UK Bus division has increased by 8.7% to 650.2m believe this partnership approach, endorsed by the Government, will deliver 2003: 598.4m, with turnover at our London bus business up 19.1% on the best services and value for money to taxpayers.
In Scotland and Wales, the prior year.
Operating profits were up 11.6% to 74.8m, compared to we are playing our part in the success of the free concessionary fares 67.0m in the previous year.
Operating margins were 11.5% compared to schemes where we have invested in new vehicles and increased 11.2% in 2003.
The reported profits include the effects of a further frequencies.
We are also closely involved in many smartcard and increase in the use of operating leases to fund new vehicles.
Excluding the multi-operator ticketing schemes to make travel easier for passengers.
impact of this change in financing, operating margins increased from In addition, we are also working with businesses and educational 11.3% to 12.0%.
This is a very encouraging performance given that the establishments to encourage travel by public transport.
reported profits have been achieved after taking account of increased National Insurance and pension costs.
Kick Start Both the Department for Transport and the Scottish Executive are taking Investment and innovation forward our Kick Start proposal for targeted funding to support the This has been a year of innovation, investment and growth.
Our firm introduction of new bus services.
Following the success of the initial pilot commitment to modernising our fleet is continuing to help drive organic project in Perth, Scotland, we are also planning some further projects passenger growth across our business.
Passenger volumes outwith London which are to be funded entirely by Stagecoach.
We have also introduced a number of products targeted at developing new markets to complement our traditional customer base.
NORTH AMERICA Our award-winning megabus.
com network, which offers low cost inter-city Overview bus travel, combines the power of the Internet and our operational expertise to deliver an attractive and cleverly marketed service.
A UK first, Turnover of our North American business for the year of US$576.4m megabus.
com now covers more than 20 routes in the UK.
Significantly, 2003: US$939.0m comprised US$382.6m 2003: US$377.3m from the service is also attracting commuters out of their cars, which can only continuing operations and US$193.8m 2003: US$561.7m from be of benefit in the battle against road congestion.
Operating profit increased from US$21.8m in 2003 to US$25.4m.
We have grown operating profit despite the significant reduction in turnover arising from a number of business Urban and provincial networks disposals.
This increased profit has been achieved by growth in our Stagecoach views customer research as a key element in growing our continuing businesses and a managed reduction in overheads.
We have pioneered the use of geo-demographic to sterling, the turnover of our North American business for the year was research and sophisticated marketing in the bus industry and we are 336.8m, compared to 603.0m in the previous year.
Operating profit particularly encouraged by the resulting shift from the use of car to bus was 14.8m, compared to 14.0m in 2003.
This represents an operating which has helped to drive further passenger growth in the past year.
Campaigns in Hartlepool and Grimsby have seen excellent growth in sales of our weekly Megarider tickets.
A telemarketing campaign and relaunch We have largely completed the restructuring of our operations in North of the Cambridge-Haverhill corridor has boosted passenger volumes on America, which has resulted in a business with a clearly defined geography the route.
and more predictable revenue streams.
Since 30 April 2003, we have completed the sale of our New England, West, South Central and South The Cambridge citi network continues to expand and we have recently East regions, as well as the disposal of the Transit division and a number introduced the citi brand and a new network to Peterborough.
In of our taxi businesses, including the major Texas taxi operations.
Within Oxford, we have introduced dedicated route branding on our urban the past few months we have completed the sale of taxi operations in network and converted our city fleet to 100% low-floor buses.
West Palm Beach, Jacksonville and San Diego.
Improvements to our Bedford network have reversed a 4% passenger decline and are now delivering 9% growth compared to the prior year.
Our North American operations are now centred on three areas: our North East and North Central regions in the United States, and Canada.
Stagecoach is taking part in the development of core corridors in Newcastle and Sunderland as part of the Tyne and Wear Superoute network with Nexus Passenger Transport Executive.
In Manchester, we have achieved further passenger growth this year and expect additional benefits from new quality bus corridor measures, including real time information, later this year.
London Our London bus business, which has around a 16.0% share of the bus market in the capital, has had an excellent year.
It continues to grow and win new business operated on behalf of Transport for London TfL with reported turnover up 19.1% over the prior year.
Virtually all existing contracts tendered to start in 2004-05 were retained, as well as new contracts won from competitors.
Around 200 new double and singledecker vehicles have entered service in London, making the entire fleet low-floor.
Work has also started on the construction of a depot to initially house a new articulated bus operation.
page 4 Stagecoach Group plc North East RAIL In the North East, our highly successful New York Sightseeing operation Overview continues to expand.
We have added additional tours to our product Stagecoach Group has a significant involvement in the passenger rail offering and have ordered 20 new open-topped double decker buses and market in the UK, including the countrys biggest commuter franchise at 6 trolleys to cater for expanding passenger volumes.
Financial performance has benefited from continued cost control and a growth in passenger volumes at South West Trains of There has been further investment in around 50 new motorcoaches for 3.2% year on year.
the commuter, charter, and express services operated by our Suburban, Community Coach and Shortline businesses, as well as new low-floor Turnover for our wholly-owned rail subsidiaries in the year was 438.9m buses for our parking lot shuttle contract at Newark Airport.
Operating profit was up 15.4% to 44.1m 2003: the last 26 motor coaches out of a 3 year delivery of 226 coaches funded 38.2m, representing an operating margin of 10.0% 2003: 9.2%.
Profit by the State of New Jersey for use on commuter services.
Additionally, we exceeded original expectations due to a combination of higher revenue received State funds to undertake a refurbishment programme which growth and continued cost control.
The prior year profit includes significantly upgraded the quality of our Staten Island commuter service.
liquidated damages of 8.5m in relation to the late delivery and reliability of Class 458 trains.
Rail profits are stated after taking account of the costs We are targeting new business in the North East and our local teams of bidding for new franchises.
continue to work in close partnership with local, county and state officials in the delivery of transport provision.
Our Community Coach business, for The operating profit of 44.1m includes 1.1m in respect of Sheffield example, has secured a five-year contract with the State of New Jersey to Supertram compared to a small loss in the prior year which reflects the operate 10 local transit routes in Passaic County.
integration of the maintenance business and other management action to increase profitability.. North Central South West Trains Sales in the North Central region have been particularly encouraging in the The new three-year franchise at South West Trains, which commenced in second half of the year and bookings for the spring and summer periods February 2004, has started well.
We had already improved services in line have been stronger than for the past two years.
with commitments made to the Strategic Rail Authority as part of the Our growing Wisconsin school bus business has secured a number of new thirteen period extension to the original seven-year franchise.
The new contracts and contract renewals in the past year, worth over US$8.0m in franchise runs until February 2007 and the agreement includes an annual revenue.
opportunity to negotiate a five-year extension to 2012.
The University of Pittsburgh has renewed a five-year shuttle contract, while New trains a three-year transit contract has been awarded to our Wisconsin company.
As at 30 April 2004, 42 of our 1billion order for 177 new state-of-theIn addition, we have won new commuter contracts in Chicago.
art Desiro trains had been delivered into passenger service.
This will increase by two new trains a week throughout the summer.
In January More than 40 motor coaches and 10 trolley buses have recently been 2004, the first of the slam-door fleet was scrapped and Network Rail has replaced within the region, upgrading the fleet and enhancing our reputation been making good progress on the necessary work to upgrade the within local communities as a high quality transportation provider.
network power supply to facilitate further roll-out of the new trains.
Canada Infrastructure issues We are delighted that South West Trains is the first TOC in the country to The Coach Canada operations, located in the Provinces of Quebec and Ontario, are now recovering following the impact of the SARS outbreak in operate an integrated control centre in conjunction with Network Rail.
The Wessex Integrated Control Centre, which opened at London Waterloo Toronto last year.
Charter bookings for the first two months of the new financial year are up significantly over the prior year and there is evidence station in February 2004, is the first of eight centres that will cover the entire UK rail network.
Equipped with the latest information technology, it that tourists are returning to Toronto.
will significantly improve our joint response to incidents and ensure delays and disruption to passengers are minimised.
NEW ZEALAND Overview Our New Zealand operations continue to generate good returns for the Group.
This year we have not benefited from the transport spin-off from the Americas Cup yacht race as we did in 2002-03.
However, on a like-for-like basis, and despite a challenging operating environment we have seen further passenger growth overall in New Zealand.
Turnover from our New Zealand businesses increased from NZ$158.3m to NZ$160.9m.
Operating profit fell from NZ$34.8m to NZ$29.5m.
Whilst the operating margin for the year was lower, we remain pleased with the profits earned in New Zealand.
Converted to sterling, turnover was 58.3m 2003: 51.0m and operating profit was 10.7m 2003: 11.2m.
Stagecoach Group plc page 5 Summary operating review Punctuality and customer improvements Heavy rail The punctuality of all trains operated by South West Trains has improved We have announced our intention to bid for the new inter-city franchises, during the year.
The number of delay minutes attributed to South West including the East Coast franchise, with Virgin and Deutsche Bahn DB.
Trains performance has reduced by 11.1% in the year.
The forthcoming Stagecoach has a 33.3% interest in the bidding consortium.
DB, which introduction in Winter 2004 of the most significant timetable changes runs the largest vertically integrated railway in Western Europe, has since 1967 will help considerably in reducing the effect of incidents and unrivalled technical expertise in the area of high-speed operations, mixed promoting better timekeeping.
traffic networks, infrastructure operations, and rolling stock specification and maintenance.
A new customer information system has now been fully implemented across the South West Trains network.
Operated in partnership with In addition, we are bringing our UK operating experience to the Danish Network Rail, it provides audible and visual information to customers State Railways DSB bid for the new Integrated Kent rail franchise.
about train running at our stations.
Stagecoach Group has taken a 29.9% stake in South Eastern Railways Ltd, the company established by DSB to bid for the franchise.
DSB operates Commercial activity the majority of passenger rail services in Denmark, as well as franchise operations in other Scandinavian countries, and is one of the best Marketing continues to be focused on developing leisure off-peak travel to performing operators in Europe.
increase revenue and encourage the use of services among low frequency and non-users.
Our Apex and SuperAdvance ticket promotions have been Light rail particularly successful, as well as the 5 anywhere ticket promotion, We are partners in two separate consortia seeking to run light rail rapid which gained approximately 25,000 extra journeys.
transit systems in Manchester and South Hampshire.
Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive shortlisted our Manchester consortium Island Line GMTL Ltd as one of two preferred bidders.
Full and final bids have been Island Line, the Isle of Wights rail franchise, is now operating on a new submitted and we are currently awaiting a final decision on the award of three-year franchise that runs concurrently with the South West Trains the contract.
Our South Hampshire consortia SHSL Ltd was one of two contract until 2007.
The franchise is for the continued operation of the consortia that submitted an initial proposal in relation to the South existing level of service.
Island Line remains Britains best performing Hampshire Rapid Transit System and discussions with the client are railway in terms of punctuality and reliability and we are working with the ongoing.
SRA and local stakeholders to find a suitable solution for the long-term future of public transport on the Island.
Virgin Rail Group Our share of Virgin Rail Groups turnover for the year amounted to Sheffield Supertram 288.4m 2003: 276.1m and our share of operating profits was 13.5m 2003: 7.2m.
Passenger volumes for the year were 2.5% above Sheffield Supertram marked its 10th anniversary of operation earlier this the prior year.
The profit for the year was a result of both revenues and year.
Under Stagecoach ownership, performance has improved dramatically costs being better than the budget set by the SRA.
and passenger volumes have grown to reach a record 12.3 million this year as the business has moved into profit for the first time.
Franchise negotiations Both the West Coast and CrossCountry franchises continue to operate on Rail business development the basis of annual budgets set by the SRA as discussions progress on Stagecoach Group continues to evaluate new opportunities in the heavy renegotiating the franchises on a long-term commercial basis through to 2012.
This is a key strategic objective for the Group and we are pleased at and light rail sectors.
Our strategy is focused on high-volume commuter and long-distance inter-city services.
We are also looking to strengthen our the continuing progress that Virgin Rail Group is making.
position in the UK light rail market subject to being able to achieve New trains sensible commercial terms.
In the meantime, Virgin Rail Group is also making excellent progress with the introduction of the new Voyager and Pendolino trains to the CrossCountry and West Coast franchises respectively.
The Voyager programme has now been completed and the new trains are having a positive impact on customer perception and operational performance.
The fleet used by CrossCountry has become one of the most reliable currently used by any UK long distance inter-city operator and is significantly more reliable than the old rolling stock.
Virgin Rail Group has now taken delivery of well over 90% of its new trains and has a few more Pendolino deliveries to accept to enable renewal of the entire fleet.
Network Rail is upgrading the West Coast Main Line to enable Pendolinos to travel at 125mph and to tilt around curves, which will enable journey times to be reduced.
A new timetable based on 125mph running will be introduced from 27 September 2004.
Performance During 2003 04, punctuality at Virgin Rail Group has improved despite the disruption on the network.
CrossCountry has been working with the SRA page 6 Stagecoach Group plc to introduce timetable amendments to create a more robust service.
As a The Groups substantial residual operations in North America are wellresult, CrossCountrys punctuality improved steadily through its financial placed to benefit from the recovery in the US economy.
We have a solid year ended 28 February 2004, rising to second in the league table of core of companies, which have already delivered on our prediction that Inter-City operators.
West Coasts punctuality has also improved over the they would out-perform the returns produced by the division prior to its same period.
Coupled with our first-class operations in New Zealand, we have a strong overseas portfolio.
Management restructuring Virgin Rail Group has finalised the re-structuring of its senior management CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK team, which is giving greater operational focus across the business.
Charles Belcher and Chris Gibb were put in charge of the West Coast and While still early in the new financial year, we have made a promising start CrossCountry franchises respectively last year.
Following detailed succession and trading in all four major divisions is in line with our expectations.
planning, Virgin Rail Group announced earlier this year that Tony Collins, We believe we are entering an exciting phase for the Group.
Our renewed currently Deputy Chief Executive, will step up to become Chief Executive focus, combined with strong cash-generative qualities and a substantially in September.
From the same date, Chris Green, currently Chief Executive, fide-risked portfolio, means there is real potential to drive the Group will become part-time Chairman.
Stephen Murphy and Graham Eccles, forward in the year ahead.
currently co-Chairmen of Virgin Rail Group, will become senior nonexecutive directors.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DISPOSED OPERATIONS Overview Hong Kong Our business is central to the lives of the communities we serve.
Our bus and rail services deliver a range of critical economic and environmental The Group completed the sale of its Hong Kong Citybus operations on benefits, while boosting social inclusion and bringing people together.
The business was purchased by Delta Pearl Limited, a 100% Encouraging more people to use public transport is central to the future indirect subsidiary of Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Limited, the privately success of our Group, and also to the future of every one of us.
That is owned company of the Cheng Yu Tung family and the major shareholder why we believe that, together with our numerous stakeholders, we have in New World Development Company Limited which in turn has an a common interest.
How we make that happen is equally important.
That interest in New World First Bus Services Limited, one of Hong Kongs is why Stagecoach has always taken its wider corporate responsibilities major bus operators.
The disposal reduced consolidated net debt by seriously and the responsible way we do business is firmly embedded in 171.8m our companys culture.
Road King Our stakeholders During the year, Stagecoach sold its entire 30.6% shareholding in Road Stagecoach Group works in partnership with a range of bodies in each of King Infrastructure Limited, a leading Hong Kong listed company with its the markets where we provide public transport services.
Our stakeholders core business in the investment, development, operation and management include: of toll roads and other infrastructure projects in China for a total consideration of 62.9m.
Investors and the financial community our shareholders, bondholders and lenders are critical to our business success.
We have a regular Trainline programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the In February 2004, Stagecoach Group announced it had sold its 49.0% markets and financial community on our performance.
We are a constituent shareholding in Trainline Holdings Limited to Virgin Investments Limited of the FTSE4Good index, which sets standards and tracks performance of for 4 million in cash, which included the repayment of outstanding loans.
the leading socially-responsible companies around the globe.
Customers millions of people use our services every day, including GROUP STRATEGY commuters, schoolchildren, concessionary fares passengers and leisure The Group strategy is to focus on local transport operations with critical travellers.
We conduct extensive customer research to monitor our performance and determine how we can improve the delivery and mass and good organic growth potential.
We will also pursue complementary acquisition opportunities, which offer the prospect of accessibility of our services.
Through a combination of getting the basics Customer Interest Groups our businesses have a regular and on-going right and applying our entrepreneurial skills in our core geographic dialogue with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from markets, we believe we can maximise shareholder value.
senior managers on detailed aspects of our service as well as consultation We have a strong position in UK Bus and we are confident we can and information sharing on particular issues.
achieve further organic growth from our networks by continuing to apply entrepreneurial vision and innovation.
Government senior executives have an ongoing dialogue with national and local government in all our countries of operation to ensure the In Rail, where we already have a significant interest in the passenger rail effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting market, we believe there are a number of exciting opportunities.
In the UK, we work closely with the Department for as maximising value from our existing franchises, we will be working hard Transport, the Strategic Rail Authority, the Scottish Executive and the with our partners to win the new Integrated Kent and East Coast Welsh Assembly, and Transport for London.
In addition, we will consider other opportunities in the inter-city and London commuter networks.
We are also committed to agreeing new Transport Authorities we also work closely with local authorities, long-term commercial arrangements for the two rail franchises at Virgin including Passenger Transport Executives, Regional Transport Committees Rail Group and we hope to conclude discussions in the near future.
and Transit Authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Stagecoach Group plc page 7 Summary operating review Government Advisory Bodies and Lobbying Groups we also have We are continuing our programme that will ultimately result in all our constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for buses in the UK being fully low-floor.
Each year, hundreds of new Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and accessible vehicles are added to our fleet and already all buses operated lobbying groups such as Transport 2000. in London are entirely low floor with wheelchair access.
Significant investment is also taking place in our North American business in Transport and Industry Representation Groups we are active partnership with federal agencies.
members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK which covers buses and light rail and the Association of As well as introducing new accessible Desiro trains, South West Trains Train Operating Companies.
provides station-based ramps to enable wheelchair users to board and alight with maximum convenience.
To support the access of wheelchair Our People we have established strong working relationships with trade users to our network, we are now committed to providing wheelchair unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including users with accessible taxis, at no extra charge, to transport them to their training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other nearest accessible station.
We also communicate with our people face to face and through a number of internal publications.
Access for all is also about staff training and we continue to maintain links with disability groups to ensure both the needs of our passengers and Suppliers we rely on a range of suppliers to provide services linked to employees are considered.
Our new bus interiors, for example, were our bus and rail operations.
These include vehicle and rolling stock designed in consultation with groups representing people with various manufacturers, fuel suppliers, IT companies and clothing manufacturers.
levels of ability, both in terms of visual impairment and mobility.
People moving people Stagecoach is also working with key stakeholders to improve accessibility across the transport industry.
In New Zealand, for example, we assisted the The people who really make Stagecoach tick are our employees, from drivers and engineers to customer service and support staff.
They are Human Rights Commission to draw up the terms of reference for an enquiry into the provision of accessible transport.
crucial to improving the public perception of public transport.
Significant investment in time and resources ensures that we have the right people on board to deliver what our customers need.
Safety first As you would expect from a responsible company, we respect and value Safety and security for both our customers and our people are at the our staff.
We have a strong commitment to equal opportunities and heart of our business.
We have a proactive culture across the Group that partnership working with trade unions.
puts safety at the top of our agenda.
We also recognise the need for on-going training and development, not Across Stagecoach Group, health and safety is monitored and reported on just so our people can do their job, but so they can develop individually.
Immediate action is taken to address issues in our our UK Bus division, we have developed a new driver training programme, business processes.
Safety is part of a well-defined risk management backed up by a comprehensive DVD with practical help and advice on process across our business.
A main board executive director, Graham handling common issues faced on a daily basis.
We also have one of the Eccles, has specific responsibility for safety issues across the Group and the biggest commitments to vocational qualifications of any bus operator, and board is updated on safety matters at each of its meetings.
Safety matters more than 30% of our current drivers have either completed or are working are also considered at the board and management meetings of each of towards a S NVQ.
At South West Trains our centralised Recruitment Centre and the state of Our Group Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired by our the art Operations Training Centre are at the heart of our Recruit for non-executive director Janet Morgan and also comprising Graham Eccles Attitude, Train for Skill strategy.
It is complemented by vocational and Iain Duffin, reports regularly to the Board on these matters.
They training, support for managers and employee recognition programmes.
have access to internal safety executives and external consultants.
Stagecoach works hard to improve skills and raise standards of customer service across our companies through open learning.
In Auckland, New In the current climate, Stagecoach and other major operators are in contact with national bodies putting in place processes and measures to Zealand, for example, we have introduced a specially-equipped bus that has a rolling programme of visits to depots in the metropolitan area to prevent or mitigate the impact of potential terrorist attacks on public transportation.
make open learning available to all our local staff.
We are also looking to develop the managers of the future through our graduate development programme.
Our engineering apprenticeship programme in the UK promotes careers through local schools.
We want to be there to help our people when they need it most.
For example, at South West Trains we have a partnership with Care First, which offers an employee assistance programme that includes a 24-hour confidential counselling service and legal helpline.
We also have a support programme for employees at our UK Bus division.
Our business is simple: people moving people.
And we want to build a workforce of people that feel proud to work for us.
Access for All No two customers are the same and we recognise that we all have our individual needs.
Accessibility is important and, as far as possible within the resources we have available, we are making it easier to use public transport.
page 8 Stagecoach Group plc Stagecoach and other transport operators are working in partnership with Stagecoach New Zealand is a long-standing supporter of the Starship national governments and other agencies to improve bus and rail safety Foundation, which helps the countrys leading specialist paediatric hospital.
While crime and vandalism are relatively low, we are aware All fares collected on a specially-liveried Stagecoach bus in Auckland go to they can discourage people from travelling on buses and trains.
the Starship Foundation and the money is used to provide a range of We continue to invest in CCTV technology and other measures to deter additional equipment and staff training for the medical facility.
anti-social behaviour and have many programmes up and down the These are only a few examples of our work, but in everything we do, we country to educate the next generation of public transport users.
hope people see us as we see them good neighbours that care for our community.
All South West Trains rolling stock is fitted with the Train Protection Warning System and the new, modern Desiro units provide a safer A sustainable environment travelling environment.
We are also working with Network Rail and British Travelling by bus or train is one way we can all help to reduce pollution, Transport Police to identify hot-spots and ensure effective measures are cut road congestion and improve the quality of life for us all in our towns taken on both trains and at stations to reduce incidents of assault, and cities.
Major employers are working with us to develop travel plans trespass and vandalism.
Our award-winning TravelSafe Officers partnership that reduce dependence on the car to get to work.
with British Transport Police which helps ensure passenger safety has been extended in the past year to cover more routes and stations on the However, even public transport has an inevitable impact on our South West Trains network.
That is why Stagecoach is committed to playing its part in building a sustainable environment and improving the environmental Public transport by bus, coach and train is the safest way to travel.
Stagecoach Group itself has a good safety record, but there is no room We were delighted to publish our updated Environmental Policy statement for complacency.
We constantly keep our safety arrangements under towards the end of 2003.
This document outlines our commitment to review and are committed to putting in place any improvements required good environmental stewardship and we have set ourselves some to our safety governance arrangements.
stretching targets to reduce emissions, cut water and energy consumption, minimise waste and identify opportunities for recycling.
We have pledged Caring for our community to measure and report on a range of key performance indicators each Stagecoach has always done far more than provide lifeline services and year.
A copy of the full environmental policy document is available on our significant job opportunities in local communities around the world.
feel part of the very communities we serve and regularly share our success Every day we work hard to make sure our transport operations are as with local people.
Across our global operations, we provide support and training for our employees to ensure compliance with Every year, we help fund the vital work of local, national and international legislation, as well as effective waste management, and improved energy charities through in-kind support and financial assistance.
During 2003-04 consumption and environmental performance.
268,000 was donated by the Group to help these worthwhile causes.
Financial support has assisted the work of childrens and cancer charities as New buses and trains meet the latest stringent standards and we continue well as organisations helping people with sight impairment and genetic to investigate new fuels and cleaner technologies.
an agreement with Cerulean International Ltd, the Oxford-based subsidiary of the nanomaterials company Oxonica Ltd, to trial a next generation fuel Our community support goes well beyond just money with hundreds of additive product in up to 1,000 buses across the UK.
Initial trials are our people devoting many hours of their own time every day to local progressing well, delivering reduced fuel consumption, cuts in vehicle projects.
Our businesses also provide a huge amount of in-kind support, emissions and cost savings that could be of significant benefit to the bus while our people also give charities the benefit of their expertise during industry.
Stagecoach is using environmentally friendly hybrid electric buses in New Much of the backing we provide is focused on education and young Zealand on an inner city circuit in Auckland.
We have plans to showcase a people.
We work closely with schools and police on local crime prevention specially-adapted vehicle to local authorities across the UK this summer.
initiatives and education of youngsters about the dangers and South West Trains has undertaken a review of its environmental consequences of anti-social behaviour.
Our support also assists many local management system to ensure it continues to comply with legislation.
initiatives that help provide opportunities for young people.
Comprehensive asbestos surveys are currently being carried out at all stations and depots.
South West Trains has also introduced a complete Our work is also helping promote social inclusion within our communities.
smoking ban on its train services, which has improved the travelling For example, in west Scotland we have sponsored the Quads initiative in environment for passengers and has been welcomed by customers.
conjunction with North Ayr Social Inclusion Partnership, Starthclyde Police, Learn Direct Scotland and South Ayrshire Council to help adults with Stagecoach is working directly with government to address environmental issues.
In New Zealand, we have instituted a sustainable transport learning difficulties and young people with social problems.
management plan in association with Auckland Regional Council and the Stagecoach has continued to support the UK educational charity Sustainable Businesses Network.
The objective is to reduce water and businessdynamics, which provides courses designed to build the skills and energy consumption and cut emissions and wastes.
It is intended to be a confidence of young people as they prepare to enter the worlds of work pilot for measures that may eventually become compulsory for all bus and further education.
operators in the Auckland region.
Our businesses in North America and New Zealand are also active Despite the huge progress and investment we have made in the area of members of the community, helping support the work of chambers of environmental sustainability, we realise we are not perfect.
This is only a commerce, arts foundations, tourism associations, educational groups and start and we have a long way to go, but we are moving in the right other key services.
Stagecoach Group plc page 9 Directors 1 Robert Speirs, Non-Executive Chairman 6 Iain Duffin, Non-Executive Director A non-executive director of the Group since March 1995.
In July 2002, he was Iain Duffin became a non-executive director of the Group in September 2001. appointed by the Board as Non-Executive Chairman.
A former Group Finance He was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2003.
Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Robert Speirs is also Chairman of He is a non-executive Chairman of Origo Services and Beattie Media Group.
He has previously held executive positions in the UK and the US with a number of organisations including Macfarlane Group plc, LucasVarity plc, ITT Corporation and Hughes Aircraft.
2 Brian Souter, Chief Executive A co-founder of Stagecoach, Brian Souter is architect of the companys strategy and 7 Ann Gloag OBE, Non-Executive Director philosophy.
He has extensive knowledge of the ground transportation industry around the world and is responsible for managing all of the Groups operations.
He Ann Gloag co-founded Stagecoach in 1980 and served as an executive director until is also Chairman of ScotAirways Group Ltd and until its disposal in January 2004, he May 2000.
She is a past winner of the Businesswoman of the Year Award and was a board member of Road King Infrastructure Ltd.
European Women in Achievement Award.
She is a trustee of the Princess Royal Aged 50.
Trust for Carers, an international Board member of Mercy Ships and a non-executive director of OPTOS.
In June 2004, she was awarded an OBE for services to charity.
3 Martin Griffiths, Finance Director Appointed Finance Director in April 2000, Martin Griffiths is responsible for the 8 Dr Janet Morgan, Non-Executive Director Groups overall financial policy, taxation and treasury management.
He also has responsibility for the overall management of the Groups property portfolio.
Dr Janet Morgan, Lady Balfour of Burleigh, became a non-executive director in April He won Young Scottish Finance Director of the Year Award in 2004 and is a 2001.
She is Chairman of the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee.
Aged 38. also chairman of the Nuclear Generation Decommisioning Fund and a non-executive director of Cable & Wireless plc, BPB plc and other companies.
Dr Morgan is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, a Trustee of the Carnegie Trust for the 4 Graham Eccles, Executive Director Rail Universities of Scotland and Chairman of the Scottish Cultural Resources Access Graham Eccles has over 35 years experience in the rail industry and has held a Network.
She was a member of the Central Policy Review Staff of the Cabinet number of senior management posts.
He has been a member of the Board since Office.
September 2000 and prior to that was managing director of South West Trains from 1999.
He is responsible for the management of all the Groups rail operations 9 Russell Walls, Non-Executive Director and business development opportunities in the rail market.
In addition, he has main board responsibility for Group safety matters.
Graham Eccles is a director of Virgin Appointed as a non-executive director in June 2000.
Russell Walls is the current Rail Group Holdings Ltd and is an advisor to Network Rail.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and is the senior independent non-executive director.
He is a non-executive director of Signet Group plc and Aviva plc.
He was previously Group Finance Director of BAA plc and Wellcome PLC.
For many years 5 Ewan Brown CBE, Non-Executive Director he worked abroad with Coats Viyella plc where he was Group Finance Director from Ewan Brown has been a non-executive director of the Group since 1988.
He is a fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
appointed Chairman of the Nomination Committee in June 2004.
He is a former Aged 60. executive director and is currently a non-executive director of Noble Grossart Ltd. His other non-executive directorships include John Wood Group plc and Lloyds TSB Group plc.
He is also Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc and Transport Initiatives Edinburgh Ltd.
Key to photograph 483219567 page 10 Stagecoach Group plc Summary directors report Important note Report of the auditors The summary financial statement is a summary of the information in the The auditors report on the full accounts for the year ended 30 April 2004 2004 Annual Report and Accounts.
It does not contain sufficient was unqualified, and did not contain any statement, under section 237 2 information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Group or section 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985. and state of affairs of the Company or the Group.
For further information, the full annual accounts, the auditors report on those accounts and the report of the directors should be consulted.
All shareholders receive either Corporate Governance Combined Code Statement the Summary Annual Report or the full Annual Report and Accounts.
A The Group recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high copy of the full 2004 Annual Report and Accounts may be obtained, free standards of corporate governance.
The Stock Exchange published the of charge, from the companys registrar at the address and telephone Combined Code in June 1998, which incorporated the work of the number shown on page 14.
If you wish to receive the full Annual Report Cadbury, Greenbury and Hampel Committees.
The Group has complied and Accounts for all future financial years you should inform Lloyds TSB with the requirements of the Combined Code throughout the year.
Registrars in writing, at the same address.
In July 2003, a Revised Combined Code was issued for the financial years commencing on or after 1 November 2003.
The Group will keep under review its current corporate governance procedures in light of the Principal activity and business review recommendations contained within it for its financial year ending 30 April The Groups principal activity is the provision of public transport services in 2005. the UK and overseas.
A review of the Groups business performance, developments during the year, its position at the year end and likely future prospects, is contained Post balance sheet events on pages 2 to 9.
During June 2004, the Group cancelled existing bank facilities amounting to 195m which were due to expire in the period to December 2004 and replaced these with revolving credit facilities amounting to approximately Directors 440m which primarily mature in June 2009.
These facilities provide The names, responsibilities and biographical details of the directors appear significant undrawn headroom.
Graham Eccles, Janet Morgan and Robert Speirs retire by rotation at the 2004 Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association and being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
Ewan Brown, who is considered an independent non-executive director by the Board, but may not be considered independent under the revised Combined Code, and Ann Gloag, who is not an independent nonexecutive director, being eligible offer themselves for annual re-election.
Stagecoach Group plc page 11 Summary remuneration report The Board supports the principles of good corporate governance relating In determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive to directors remuneration and has applied them as described below.
directors, the Remuneration Committee aims to provide overall packages of terms and conditions that are competitive in the UK and will attract, In accordance with Schedule 7A Directors Remuneration Report of the retain and motivate high quality executives capable of achieving the Companies Act 1985, those paragraphs that have been audited have been Stagecoach Groups objectives and to ensure that they are fairly rewarded highlighted as such.
for their individual responsibilities and contributions to the Groups overall This is the Summary remuneration report.
The full version of the performance.
The Remuneration Committee believes that such packages remuneration report is contained in the 2004 Annual Report and should contain significant performance related elements.
As stated on page 11, the full 2004 Annual Report and targets are established to achieve consistency with the interests of Accounts may be obtained from the Companys registrar at the address shareholders, with an appropriate balance between shortand long-term and telephone number shown on page 14. targets.
Performance targets include not only traditional financial indicators but also personal targets, successful investment, innovation, staff The graph below charts the performance of the Stagecoach Group Total development, customer satisfaction and achievement of regulatory Shareholder Return TSR share value movement plus reinvested requirements, including health and safety and environmental targets.
dividends over the past 5 years compared with that of the FTSE Transport All-Share Index, the FTSE Mid 250 Index and the FTSE All-Share To this end, the Remuneration Committee reviews the existing Index.
We have included a further graph to highlight the Companys more remuneration of the executive directors in consultation with the Group recent performance, charting TSR for the 12 months up to 30 April 2004.
Chief Executive making comparisons with peer companies of similar size and complexity and with other companies in the public transport industry In assessing the performance of the Companys TSR the Board believes in the UK and overseas.
Proposals for the forthcoming year are then the comparator groups it has chosen represent a fair benchmark both in discussed in the light of the growth prospects for the Stagecoach Group.
terms of the nature of the business activity and size of company.
The Remuneration Committee is also kept informed of the salary levels of other senior executives employed by the Stagecoach Group and of average Remuneration policy earnings for all employees.
With regard to pensions, the Remuneration Our remuneration policy is consistent with our prior year policy, which was Committee has access to reports from the trustees and scheme actuaries approved by the shareholders at the 2003 AGM.
regarding the cost of pension obligations.
Stagecoach TSR Comparative Performance since 1 May 1999 Stagecoach TSR Comparative Performance since 1 May 2003 page 12 Stagecoach Group plc The Committee has also appointed and taken advice during the year from of Group performance.
The Committee recognises that executive directors a firm of independent executive remuneration consultants, Inbucon bear greatest responsibility for delivering corporate strategy which Consulting, which was instructed to review the existing remuneration of all underpins long-term sustainable performance.
While the Remuneration executive directors and the chairman.
Inbucon Consulting also provided Committees report focuses on incentive schemes for senior executives, training to the Committee in the year.
there are also a number of performance-related bonus schemes within group companies, in addition to the UK-only SAYE schemes.
The Remuneration Committee believes that remuneration packages should reward the efforts of all staff since a motivated workforce is a key element Directors remuneration audited was as follows in Table 1 amounts in 000 TABLE 1 Performance Benefits in Compensation for Non-pensionable Salary fees related bonus kind loss of office allowances Total 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Executive directors Brian Souter 470 460 329 322 18` 18 Nil Nil n a n a 817 800 Keith Cochrane Nil 81 Nil Nil Nil 8 Nil 543 Nil 108 Nil 740 Brian Cox Nil 37 Nil Nil Nil 4 Nil Nil n a n a Nil 41 Graham Eccles 250 190 175 114 21 13 Nil Nil 44 26 490 343 Martin Griffiths 205 180 143 108 20` 20 Nil Nil 29 23 397 331 Non-executive directors Ewan Brown 30 27 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 30 27 Ann Gloag 30 27 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 30 27 Robert Speirs 90 72 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 90 72 Russell Walls 30 27 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 30 27 Janet Morgan 30 27 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 30 27 Iain Duffin 30 27 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a n a n a 30 27 Total 1,165 1,155 647 544 59 63 Nil 543 73 157 1,944 2,462 Resigned or retired prior to 30 April 2003.
Non-pensionable allowances represent additional taxable remuneration paid to provide pension benefits.
`Includes cash payments in lieu of provision of company car.
Graham Eccles and Martin Griffiths participate in the Stagecoach Executive the Scheme is such that the bonuses are payable if the growth in earnings Directors Long Term Bonus Scheme.
Under this scheme, Graham Eccles per share each financial year outperforms inflation by at least 5%.
The may be awarded an additional annual bonus of 100,000 per financial performance condition in respect of the year ended 30 April 2004 was year for each of the three years commencing 1 May 2003 and Martin satisfied and therefore subject to the relevant individual remaining a fullGriffiths may be awarded an additional annual bonus of 50,000 for each time employee of the Group, the bonus in respect of that year will be of the five years commencing 1 May 2003.
The performance condition of paid at the end of the three or five year period.
Directors pension benefits audited were as follows in Table 2 amounts in 000 Increase in TABLE 2 Additional Transfer value transfer value accrued benefits Accrued Accrued lump of increase less directors in the year pension sum excluding inflation contributions Excluding Including Executive directors inflation inflation 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Brian Souter 44 60 226 209 391 348 127 138 99 Graham Eccles 11 12 18 15 53 44 29 26 29 Martin Griffiths 11 14 23 19 68 58 10 9 10 Stagecoach Group plc page 13 Independent auditors statement to the members of Stagecoach Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement of Stagecoach Basis of opinion Group plc.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the summary annual report in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our Opinion opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the summary annual report with the annual accounts, the Directors report annual accounts, the Directors report and the Remuneration report and the Remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant of Stagecoach Group plc for the year ended 30 April 2004 and complies requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
contained in the summary annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members in accordance with Section 251 of the  LLP Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any Glasgow other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
23 June 2004 Registered office and advisers Company Secretary Merchant Bankers Principal Bankers Derek Scott Noble Grossart Limited Bank of Scotland 48 Queen Street New Uberior House Registered Office Edinburgh EH2 3NH 11 Earl Grey Street 10 Dunkeld Road Edinburgh EH3 9BN Auditors Perth PH1 5TW Solicitors Telephone 44 0 1738 442 111  LLP Facsimile 44 0 1738 643 648 Kintyre House Shepherd & Wedderburn, WS Email info@stagecoachgroup.
com 209 West George Street Saltire Court Glasgow G2 2LW 20 Castle Terrace Company number Edinburgh EH1 2ET Stockbrokers SC 100764 Herbert Smith Credit Suisse First Boston Europe Limited Exchange House Registrars 1 Cabot Square Primrose Street Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland London E14 4QJ London EC2A 2HS PO Box 28448 Finance House Orchard Brae Edinburgh EH4 1WQ Telephone 44 0 870 601 5366 page 14 Stagecoach Group plc Summary consolidated profit and loss account Year ended 30 April 2004 2004 2003 Performance pre Goodwill and Performance pre Goodwill and goodwill and exceptional Results for goodwill and exceptional Results for exceptionals items the year exceptionals items the year m m m m m m Turnover: Group and share of joint ventures 1,792.3 Nil 1,792.3 2,076.6 Nil 2,076.6 Less: Share of joint ventures turnover 290.3 Nil 290.3 277.9 Nil 277.9 Group turnover 1,502.0 Nil 1,502.0 1,798.7 Nil 1,798.7 Represented by: Continuing Group operations 1,371.0 Nil 1,371.0 1,305.3 Nil 1,305.3 Discontinued operations 131.0 Nil 131.0 493.4 Nil 493.4 1,502.0 Nil 1,502.0 1,798.7 Nil 1,798.7 Operating costs including asset impairment 1,501.3 8.8 1,510.1 1,752.6 603.6 2,356.2 Other operating income 129.1 Nil 129.1 87.7 Nil 87.7 Operating profit loss of Group companies 129.8 8.8 121.0 133.8 603.6 469.8 Share of operating profit loss of joint ventures 10.7 8.7 2.0 2.6 8.7 6.1 Share of operating profit from interest in associates 7.0 0.3 6.7 10.0 0.3 9.7 Total operating profit loss : Group and share of joint ventures and associates 147.5 17.8 129.7 146.4 612.6 466.2 Represented by: Continuing Group operations 128.8 7.8 121.0 114.7 596.0 481.3 Continuing joint ventures and associates 13.1 9.0 4.1 6.3 9.0 2.7 141.9 16.8 125.1 121.0 605.0 484.0 Discontinued Group operations 1.0 1.0 Nil 19.1 7.6 11.5 Discontinued joint ventures and associates 4.6 Nil 4.6 6.3 Nil 6.3 Total operating profit loss : Group and share of joint ventures and associates 147.5 17.8 129.7 146.4 612.6 466.2 Profit loss on sale of properties Nil 0.5 0.5 Nil 0.5 0.5 Loss on disposal of operations Nil 7.1 7.1 Nil Nil Nil Profit loss on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 147.5 24.4 123.1 146.4 613.1 466.7 Finance charges net 27.3 Nil 27.3 33.5 Nil 33.5 Profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 120.2 24.4 95.8 112.9 613.1 500.2 Taxation on profit loss on ordinary activities 32.3 41.1 8.8 28.8 3.8 25.0 Profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation 87.9 16.7 104.6 84.1 609.3 525.2 Dividends 38.4 Nil 38.4 34.3 Nil 34.3 Retained profit loss for the year 49.5 16.7 66.2 49.8 609.3 559.5 Earnings loss per share Adjusted Basic 6.7p 7.9p 6.4p 40.0 p Diluted 6.5p 7.8p 6.4p 40.0 p Stagecoach Group plc page 15 Summary consolidated balance sheet As at 30 April 2004 2004 2003 m m Fixed assets 831.7 1,259.8 Current assets 717.1 455.0 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 674.6 504.2 Net current assets liabilities 42.5 49.2 Total assets less current liabilities 874.2 1,210.6 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 292.2 640.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 192.0 252.8 Net assets 390.0 317.1 Capital and reserves Equity share capital 6.7 6.6 Share premium account 392.4 386.1 Profit and loss account 6.9 77.3 Own shares 3.9 Nil Capital redemption reserve 1.7 1.7 Shareholders funds Equity 390.0 317.1 The profit and loss reserve deficit of 6.9m is the consolidated position after taking account of cumulative goodwill of 113.8m that was written off against reserves in periods prior to the adoption of FRS10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
The holding companys distributable reserves as at 30 April 2004 were 378.5m 2003: 57.5m.
Signed on behalf of the Board on 23 June 2004 BRIAN SOUTER MARTIN A GRIFFITHS Chief Executive Finance Director Summary consolidated cash flow statement Year ended 30 April 2004 2004 2003 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 214.3 272.2 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 4.1 5.3 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 0.5 51.9 Taxation 9.4 7.8 Capital expenditure and financial investment 51.8 32.8 Acquisitions and disposals 316.9 4.8 Equity dividends paid 35.6 27.6 Net cash inflow before financing 439.0 152.6 Financing 91.6 165.3 Increase decrease in cash during the year 347.4 12.7 Free cash flow 209.5 217.8 Free cash flow per share 15.9p 16.6p Free cash flow comprises net cash inflow from operating activities, dividends from joint ventures and associates, net cash inflow outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance, and taxation.
page 16 Stagecoach Group plc Shareholder information Analysis of shareholders as at 30 April 2004 Range of holdings No.
of holders % Shares held % Individuals 61,094 96.58 410,871,050 30.77 Other corporate bodies 71 0.11 6,354,494 0.48 Banks and Nominees 1,892 2.99 851,255,984 63.75 Insurance and assurance companies 1 0.00 152,616 0.01 Limited companies 205 0.32 66,656,781 4.99 Pension funds 9 0.00 67,675 0.00 63,272 100.00 1,335,358,600 100.00 Registrar and transfer office All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should, in the first instance, be directed to the Companys registrar and clearly state the shareholders name and address.
Please write to: Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, PO Box 28448, Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ.
Registrar forms can be obtained on-line at http: www.
com sgc investorinfo forms Stagecoach individual savings accounts The Company has appointed Halifax Share Dealing Limited as an ISA provider and shareholders who would like further information should contact their help desk on 08457 22 55 25.
The Company has also made arrangements with Stocktrade for Maxi and Mini ISAs.
Full details and an application form are available from Stocktrade a division of Brewin Dolphin, 10 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 2PZ.
Low cost share dealing facility The Group has set up a low cost execution only share dealing facility with a division of Brewin Dolphin, Stocktrade, exclusive to Stagecoach shareholders.
The commission is 0.6% up to 10,000 with 0.2% being charged on the excess thereafter, subject to a 15 minimum.
Shareholders who would like further information should write to Stocktrade, PO Box 1076, 10 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 2PZ.
Telephone 0845 601 0995, quoting dealing reference Low Co020.
Postal dealing packs are available on request.
Payment of dividends by BACS Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account.
The mandates enable the Company to pay dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS system is that the registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholder bank or building society account.
Shareholders who wish to benefit from this service should request the Companys registrar address above to send them a dividend interest mandate form or alternatively complete the mandate form attached to the next dividend tax voucher they receive.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan which allows a shareholders cash dividend to be used to buy Stagecoach shares at favourable commission rates.
Shareholders who would like further information should telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland on 0870 241 3018.
Company websites More information can be found on the internet at: www.
co. uk Financial Calendar Annual General Meeting Interim Report 27 August 2004 December 2004 Final Dividend Interim Dividend 6 October 2004 March 2005 In addition to the key dates shown above, a separate circular has been sent to all shareholders which includes a proposed timetable for the issue and redemption of B shares.
Stagecoach Group plc page 17 SUMMARY ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Group Headquarters 10 Dunkeld Road Perth PH1 5TW Scotland T 44 0 1738 442 111 F 44 0 1738 643 648 www.
