The fleet used by CrossCountry has become one of the most reliable Trainline currently used by any UK long distance inter-city operator and is In February 2004, Stagecoach Group announced it had sold its 49.0% significantly more reliable than the old rolling stock.
shareholding in Trainline Holdings Limited to Virgin Investments Limited for 4 million in cash, which included the repayment of outstanding loans.
Virgin Rail Group has now taken delivery of well over 90% of its new trains and has a few more Pendolino deliveries to accept to enable renewal of the entire fleet.
Network Rail is upgrading the West Coast Main GROUP STRATEGY Line to enable Pendolinos to travel at 125mph and to tilt around curves, The Group strategy is to focus on local transport operations with critical which will enable journey times to be reduced.
A new timetable based mass and good organic growth potential.
We will also pursue on 125mph running will be introduced from 27 September 2004. complementary acquisition opportunities, which offer the prospect of additional profitable growth.
Through a combination of getting the basics Performance right and applying our entrepreneurial skills in our core geographic During 2003 04, punctuality at Virgin Rail Group has improved despite the markets, we believe we can maximise shareholder value.
CrossCountry has been working with the SRA to introduce timetable amendments to create a more robust service.
As a We have a strong position in UK Bus and we are confident we can result, CrossCountrys punctuality improved steadily through its financial achieve further organic growth from our networks by continuing to apply year ended 28 February 2004, rising to second in the league table of entrepreneurial vision and innovation.
West Coasts punctuality has also improved over the In Rail, where we already have a significant interest in the passenger rail same period.
market, we believe there are a number of exciting opportunities.
As well as maximising value from our existing franchises, we will be working hard Management restructuring with our partners to win the new Integrated Kent and East Coast Virgin Rail Group has finalised the re-structuring of its senior management franchises.
In addition, we will consider other opportunities in the inter-city team, which is giving greater operational focus across the business.
Charles and London commuter networks.
We are also committed to agreeing new Belcher and Chris Gibb were put in charge of the West Coast and long-term commercial arrangements for the two rail franchises at Virgin CrossCountry franchises respectively last year.
Following detailed succession Rail Group and we hope to conclude discussions in the near future.
planning, Virgin Rail Group announced earlier this year that Tony Collins, The Groups substantial residual operations in North America are wellcurrently Deputy Chief Executive, will step up to become Chief Executive placed to benefit from the recovery in the US economy.
We have a solid in September.
From the same date, Chris Green, currently Chief Executive, core of companies, which have already delivered on our prediction that will become part-time Chairman.
Stephen Murphy and Graham Eccles, they would out-perform the returns produced by the division prior to its currently co-Chairmen of Virgin Rail Group, will become senior nonrestructuring.
Coupled with our first-class operations in New Zealand, we executive directors.
DISPOSED OPERATIONS CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK Hong Kong While still early in the new financial year, we have made a promising start The Group completed the sale of its Hong Kong Citybus operations on and trading in all four major divisions is in line with our expectations.
The business was purchased by Delta Pearl Limited, a 100% indirect subsidiary of Chow Tai Fook Enterprises Limited, the privately We believe we are entering an exciting phase for the Group.
Our renewed owned company of the Cheng Yu Tung family and the major shareholder focus, combined with strong cash-generative qualities and a substantially in New World Development Company Limited which in turn has an fide-risked portfolio, means there is real potential to drive the Group interest in New World First Bus Services Limited, one of Hong Kongs forward in the year ahead.
The disposal reduced consolidated net debt by 171.8m Road King During the year, Stagecoach sold its entire 30.6% shareholding in Road King Infrastructure Limited, a leading Hong Kong listed company with its core business in the investment, development, operation and management of toll roads and other infrastructure projects in China for a total consideration of 62.9m.
