Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 200 Renfield Street, Glasgow G2 3PR on Friday 3 June 2005 at 12 noon for the following purposes: Ordinary resolutions 1.
To receive and adopt the report by the directors and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the report of the auditors thereon.
A final dividend of 1.5p per share is being proposed for the year ended 31 December 2004, payable on 13 July 2005 to shareholders registered on 10 June 2005.
Shareholders who have not already elected to do so may choose to receive shares instead of the cash dividend through the Companys Dividend Re-investment Plan.
Full details of the plan and application forms are available from the Companys registrar on 0870 162 3100.
To adopt the SMG plc 2005 Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
We will be asking you to vote on the following ordinary resolution: That the SMG plc 2005 Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan, the principal terms of which are summarised in the Circular to shareholders dated 19 April 2005 and the rules of which are produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be and are hereby approved and that the directors be authorised to do all acts and things which they may consider necessary or expedient to carry the Plan into effect.
To approve the report by the directors on remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The report by the directors on remuneration which may be found on pages 38 to 55, and the associated shareholders circular dated 19 April 2005, gives details of the directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2004 and sets out the Companys overall policy on directors remuneration during the year.
As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Companys auditors,  LLP, have audited those parts of the report capable of being audited.
To elect Chris Masters as a director of the Company.
Our Articles of Association require that a director appointed by the Board since the last AGM should retire at the next AGM and stand for election to the Board to give you a chance to confirm their appointment.
Following Don Cruickshanks announcement that he wished to step down as Chairman and from the Board in 2004 a Nomination Committee was formed to deal with the appointment of a successor.
In addition, external consultants, Whitehead Mann, were appointed to undertake a search and identify potential candidates and the Board were delighted that Chris Masters accepted the position of Chairman.
He was appointed to the Board following the AGM on 4 June 2004.
The Board confirms that at his appointment Chris Masters met the independence criteria as set out in A.
3.1 of the revised Combined Code.
Biographical details of Chris Masters can be found on page 14 and you will see that his plc credentials are very strong and that he brings boardroom experience, strategic focus and a business profile which strengthens the Board.
To elect MT Rainey as a director of the Company.
Following a review of the Boards diversity and balance of skills external consultants, The Zygos Partnership, were appointed to identify potential non-executive directors with, among other skills, strong marketing and advertising credentials.
As a result the Board were pleased to announce the appointment of MT Rainey to the Board on 12 April 2005.
Biographical details of MT Rainey can be found on page 15 and the Board confirms that she meets the independence criteria as set out in A.
To re-elect Donald Emslie as a director of the Company.
Our Articles of Association require that every year a proportion of our directors retire and that all directors have to stand for re-election on the third anniversary of election or re-election.
This gives you the chance to confirm their appointments.
Donald Emslies biographical details can be found on page 14.
Donald Emslie as Chief Executive, Television is also a member of the executive group and undergoes a formal performance review in accordance with Board policy.
To re-elect Allan Shiach as a director of the Company.
Allan Shiach first joined the Board in September 1993 and therefore in accordance with the revised Combined Code is subject to annual re-election.
Allan Shiachs biographical details can be found on page 15.
The Board recognises that under the strict application of the revised Code he can no longer be considered to be independent however he continues to be of independent character and judgment and is a valued member of the Board.
His knowledge of and connection with the media industry have proved to be invaluable.
In accordance with Board policy the Chairman has evaluated Allan Shiachs performance as a non-executive director and his contribution to the Board and confirms that he continues to be an effective non-executive director and demonstrate commitment to the role.
To appoint  LLP as the auditors and authorise the directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
In accordance with Board policy to periodically review the provision of audit and tax services, the Audit Committee undertook a detailed review during 2004.
As a consequence of that review  LLP were appointed as the Groups auditors in place of Deloitte & Touche LLP, who resigned on 3 September 2004.
A resolution to appoint  LLP as the Companys auditors is therefore being proposed.
To grant the directors authority to allot shares.
We will be asking you to vote on the following ordinary resolution: That the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,616,503 such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of the resolution, but so that the directors may at any time prior to such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
23 The directors require the authority of shareholders to allot the Companys shares and this resolution extends for a further year the general authority for the directors to allot a limited number of ordinary shares 104,660,134 shares representing 33.3% of the ordinary issued capital at 19 April 2005 to provide the flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.
The authority will terminate at the next AGM, which must be held no later than 3 September 2006.
No issue of ordinary shares will be made which would effectively alter control of the Company without the prior approval of the Company in general meeting.
Changes to the Articles of Association.
We will be asking you to vote on the following special resolution: That the regulations produced to the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification be adopted as new Articles of Association of the Company in place of and to the exclusion of all other Articles of Association.
This resolution seeks to adopt new Articles of Association.
The current Articles have been reviewed with a view to updating them, having regard to best practice.
The Communications Act 2003 has changed the regulatory regime within which the Company operates.
As a result, certain alterations are required in articles 31 and 40 as well as the insertion of new definitions in article 2.
These articles deal with the ability of the Company to refuse the registration of a share transfer and the ability to require a transfer of shares already held, where such holding might cause a broadcast licence to be prejudiced.
In January 2004, Paul Myners published his report on his review of the impediments of voting UK shares.
This report makes certain recommendations to issuers, among others, with the aim of improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the system by which holders of UK shares can use their vote in respect of those shares.
As a result of these recommendations we propose to amend our articles articles 56 and 80 to permit proxies to speak at general meetings of the Company and at general meetings of any class of shares of the Company where relevant.
The report also recommends that all resolutions are voted for on a poll and so we have inserted wording in article 59 clarifying that this is possible.
A recent change in law in the UK now permits public companies, subject to certain restrictions, to hold their own shares which they repurchase in treasury for resale at a later date rather than being obliged to cancel them.
Any such treasury shares are held in the name of the Company but the Company could not exercise any rights, such as voting rights, in respect of them.
Certain changes have therefore been proposed to the Articles see articles 2, 10.1, 45, 140.1 and 145 to take into account the possible existence of treasury shares and their rights.
As an extension of the protection which is available for current directors and officers, it is proposed that the Company be specifically permitted to indemnify former directors and officers of the Company against liabilities incurred by them during their time in office article 158.
We believe the directors have the discretion to do this on a case-by-case basis.
While extending the indemnity to cover former directors and officers, it is thought best to make clear that the Companys auditors are not covered by the indemnity as officers of the Company.
As all of the Redeemable Shares were redeemed in November 2000, we have deleted the previous article 6 contained in the current Articles of Association which dealt with the rights attaching to those shares.
While these Redeemable Shares have been cancelled, as a matter of law they remain part of the Companys authorised share capital see article 4.1 they may not however be reissued.
24 notice of meeting Though not strictly part of the Articles, we have inserted a glossary of terms at the end of the document.
This is intended to assist in understanding the import of the Articles.
A small number of other changes are proposed to the Articles, which due to their minor nature are not separately described above.
There are also necessary consequential changes proposed, in the light of the other suggested changes, to the numbering of the Articles and cross-references.
Both the current Articles of Association and the proposed new Articles of Association will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company from the date of this notice until 3 June 2005 and at the Meeting itself.
To dis-apply statutory pre-emption rights.
We will be asking you to vote on the following special resolution: That subject to the passing of resolution 10, the directors be and are hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 2 to 94 3 A of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 10 as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that the power conferred hereby shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of the holders of the ordinary shares of 2.5p each in the capital of the Company where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interest of all such holders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws or requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any Stock Exchange or otherwise in any territory: and b the allotment of equity securities otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above having, in the case of relevant shares as defined in Section 94 5 of the Act a nominal value or, in the case of other securities giving the right to subscribe or convert into relevant shares having a nominal value, not exceeding in the aggregate 392,868: and the authority shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution and the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or may require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power hereby conferred had not expired.
When ordinary shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered, in the first instance, to existing holders of ordinary shares in proportion to their respective shareholdings.
This resolution extends for a further year the authority granted to the directors to allot a limited number of ordinary shares 15,714,735 shares representing 5% of the ordinary shares in issue at 19 April 2005 other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings, again to provide the flexibility to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise.
We will be asking you to vote on the following special resolution: That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 2.5p each of the Company Shares and the directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company, provided that: a the nominal value of maximum number of Shares acquired pursuant to this authority shall not exceed 785,736: b the minimum price which may be paid by the Company for any Share acquired pursuant to this authority shall be 2.5p: c the maximum price which may be paid by the Company for a Share acquired pursuant to this authority shall be not more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for a Share derived from the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the ten business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and d unless renewed, this authority shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after passing of this resolution and the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make a contract of purchase which will or may be executed wholly or partly after such expiration and the Company may make a purchase of such Shares after such expiry pursuant to such contract and that all Shares so purchased in pursuance of this authority shall be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase and the amount of the Companys issued share capital but not its authorised share capital shall be reduced by the nominal amount of the Shares so purchased.
This resolution seeks the authority of shareholders to allow the Company to purchase its own shares.
The authority sought extends to 31,429,469 shares, representing 10% of the ordinary shares in issue at 19 April 2005.
The maximum price which may be paid amounts to not more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys shares for the ten business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The power will only be used if the Board is satisfied that it will be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
In exercising the authority to purchase ordinary shares, the directors may treat the shares that have been bought back as either cancelled or held in treasury or a combination of both and to the extent that any such shares are held in treasury, earnings per share will only be increased on a temporary basis, until such time as the shares held are resold out of treasury stock.
By order of the Board Sara Clarke Secretary 200 Renfield Street, Glasgow G2 3PR 19 April 2005 26 notice of meeting Notes 1.
Any member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his or her behalf.
Such proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed or, if you have elected to receive information electronically, available on the Registrars website www.
Alternatively if you hold your shares in uncertified form i. e. in CREST you may vote using the CREST system.
To be valid, the appropriate CREST message regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must be transmitted so as to be received by our Registrars, Capita Registrars, ID RA10 by no later than 12 noon on 1 June 2005.
The time of receipt will be taken to be the time from which the Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages and the normal system timings and limitations apply to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 SI 2001 3755.
The register of directors interests, copies of the executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors terms and conditions will be available for inspection at 200 Renfield Street, Glasgow during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Meeting.
