Principal Accounting Policies For the year ended 31 December 2004 The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and comply with applicable UK accounting standards.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet include the financial statements of the company and its subsidiaries together with the groups share of the profits less losses of joint ventures.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method, with the groups share of the gross assets and liabilities shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
The results of businesses acquired or disposed of are consolidated from or to the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
Profits and losses of overseas subsidiaries and associated companies are translated into sterling at the weighted average rates of exchange for the year.
Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at the year end rates.
Exchange differences on the opening net assets and results for the year, together with the exchange movements on related foreign currency loans, are dealt with through reserves.
Other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account.
Group sales Group sales represent the invoiced value for the goods sold, and services provided, to third parties, net of value added tax.
Finance costs Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Finance costs that are directly attributable to the construction of tangible fixed assets are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and businesses, representing any excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, is capitalised and written off on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, which is a maximum of twenty years.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 31 December 1997 and earlier periods was written off to reserves in accordance with the accounting standard then in force.
As permitted by the current accounting standard the goodwill previously written off to reserves has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, the attributable amount of goodwill previously written off to reserves is included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Except for freehold land and land grants in Malaysia, which are not depreciated, the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets is depreciated using a straight line basis over their expected useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold land and buildings the lesser of 50 years and the period of the lease Plant and equipment between 3 and 10 years Revaluation of properties The group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of FRS15 Tangible fixed assets and retained the book amounts of certain freehold properties which were revalued prior to implementation of that standard.
Where depreciation charges are increased following a revaluation, an amount equal to the increase is transferred annually from the revaluation reserve to the profit and loss account as a movement on reserves.
On the disposal or recognition of a provision for impairment of a revalued fixed asset, any related balance remaining in the revaluation reserve is also transferred to the profit and loss account as a movement on reserves.
Leased assets Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
44 Yule Catto & Co plc Investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
Stocks Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost, including an appropriate proportion of production overheads and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Research and development Research and product development costs, including expenditure on patents and trade marks, are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Debt Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Derivative financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
The group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the groups accounts.
For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate by converting a fixed rate to a variable rate or vice versa.
Interest differentials under these swaps are recognised by adjusting net interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
Pension funding The costs of contributions to the groups pension schemes and of augmenting existing pensions are charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis over the expected period of benefits from employees service.
The UK defined benefit scheme is funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the group, in separate trustee-administered funds.
For the German schemes, the assets are included within the assets of the respective companies, as permitted under local laws.
The assets of the other overseas schemes are held separately from those of the group.
