With underlying growth of Business Services Standard Eurobarometer, the largest 10.8 per cent, the group performed well Business Services continues to stabilise public opinion survey in the world.
across the region, especially in China slowly, with the gradual pick up in The Automotive sector benefited at and Korea.
corporate earnings and the business-tothe start of 2004 from the acquisition business market, especially in the more of Area, the market leader in Spain.
Sector turnover performance mature areas, such as the UK and US.
The division also benefited from However, the sector as a whole declined Consumer growth in new car registrations in by 0.8 per cent for the year, with growth Worldpanel again showed good growth emerging markets, such as China.
offset by the one-off impact of losing for the year across all areas, especially third party business previously Andy Boland in Asia Pacific, where there were a conducted for competitors on the US Finance Director significant number of new client wins.
Performance in Europe was boosted by the expansion of the French panel from Technology previously IT Telecoms 8,000 to 12,000 households.
The Technology sector grew by Consumer customised delivered a 4.9 per cent, ahead of the overall market robust performance for the year, in 2004.
Germany performed especially particularly in the US, which benefited well, with stronger relationships and from the strength of the access panel.
new business from key accounts As expected, growth in the second half helping to drive growth.
of the year was slower than in the first, Healthcare as a result of the loss of the BASES Healthcare grew ahead of the market licence in Europe.
Overall, the for the year as a whole, at a rate of Consumer sector achieved underlying 5.6 per cent, benefiting from its first growth of 5.5 per cent for the year.
full year of operation as a globally Media managed sector.
As anticipated, growth Media Intelligence benefited from the in the first half year was faster, as the effects of improving advertising and comparative was stronger in second half public relations markets in 2004, with of 2003.
Healthcare in Germany was UK, France, Spain and Russia all particularly strong in 2004, benefiting showing strong performance for from the focus on brand performance monitoring services.
The US saw a for key accounts.
This helped to offset a positive impact from additional work weaker performance in the US, where associated with the Presidential the market remains competitive.
TV and Radio Audience Other Measurement performed well in 2004, The Polling & Social sector had a strong driven by new developments in year, with growth driven by elections in markets such as China.
Growth also markets such as US, Spain, Germany, came from new developments in Korea and Philippines.
Also in 2004, established markets, including the UK.
TNS won a major four year contract Overall, the Media sector grew by with the European Commission for the 4.5 per cent in 2004.
27 the sixth sense of business
