Shareholder services The Marconi registrar The Bank of New York Enquiries concerning share and warrant holdings in Marconi Investor Relations Corporation plc such as a change of address and replacement share PO Box 11258 certificates should be addressed to: Church Street Station New York The Marconi Registrar NY 10286-1258 Computershare Investor Services PLC USA PO Box 82 The Pavilions Telephone: Bridgwater Road 1 888 BNY ADRS Bristol US callers toll free BS99 7NH 1 610 382 7836 Email: shareowners@bankofny.
com Existing ADR holders should contact their broker, in the first instance, for information concerning their holdings.
Share dealing service A share dealing service has been established in the UK with the Share and warrant price information Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Marconi Corporation plc share, warrant and ADR prices are available on the Companys website www.
com, such share, warrant A telephone dealing service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm Monday and ADR prices are quoted subject to a 20 minute delay.
The share and to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 870 warrant prices can also be obtained in the UK on Ceefax and Teletext, 703 0084.
Please ensure you have your Shareholder Reference Number and the share price only on the FT Cityline service, telephone number SRN ready when making the call.
The SRN appears on your share 44 0 906 843 3141 calls charged at 60p per minute within the UK.
certificate statement and details of the terms and conditions are available on request by phoning 44 0 870 702 0000.
General enquiries A postal share dealing service is also available.
To request a dealing For enquiries relating to matters not mentioned above, please write to: form which includes details of the Terms and Conditions contact The Company Secretary Computershare Investor Services PLC on 44 0 870 702 0000.
Marconi Corporation plc Shares held in the nominee service provided by Computershare, on New Century Park behalf of certain UK resident shareholders, can only be traded using the PO Box 53 above services.
Coventry CV3 1HJ The commission is 1%, subject to a minimum charge of 15.
In addition stamp duty, currently at the rate of 0.5% of the deal price is payable on or e-mail: shareholder.
com or telephone during all purchases.
normal office hours on 44 0 24 7656 5606 Please note, this is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold shares in Website Marconi Corporation plc.
If you are unsure of what action to take you Further information about Marconi Corporation plc can be found at should contact a financial advisor authorised under the Financial www.
com Services and Markets Act 2000.
Please note that share values may go down as well as up, which may result in you receiving less than you Unsolicited mail originally invested.
Marconi Corporation plc, like other companies, is obliged by law to In so far as this statement constitutes a financial promotion for the share make its share register available upon request to other organisations dealing service provided by Computershare Investor Services PLC it provided that the organisations concerned pay the appropriate statutory has been approved by Computershare Investor Services PLC for the fee.
If shareholders wish to restrict the receipt of unsolicited mail they purpose of Section 21 2 b of the Financial Services and Markets Act may like to contact The Mailing Preference Service by writing to 2000 only.
Computershare Investor Services PLC is authorised and Freepost 22, London W1E 7EZ or through their website: regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
uk, who can help shareholders have their names removed from certain kinds of lists.
Where this document has been received in a country where the provision of such a dealing service would be contrary to local laws or ShareGift regulations, it should be treated as being for information purposes only.
In the UK, the Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small holdings of shares, the American depository receipts ADRs value of which makes them uneconomic to sell.
Details can be obtained The Company has appointed The Bank of New York as its Depositary in from the ShareGift website at www.
org or by telephoning 020 respect of its ADR programme.
The contact details for The Bank of New 7337 0501.
York in the USA are as follows: 90
