Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of Marconi Corporation plc will be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8AY on Monday, 13 September 2004 at 11.00am for the following purposes: Ordinary business 1.
To receive the accounts and the reports of the directors and the auditors thereon, for the year ended 31 March 2004.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
To reappoint Mr D F McWilliams as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr P S Binning as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Mr P C F Hickson as a director of the Company.
To reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That: a in accordance with Article 7.1 of the Companys Articles of Association, the directors be authorised to allot relevant securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 16,668,000: b this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 13 December 2005: and c all previous unutilised authorities under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 shall cease to have effect save to the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to Section 80 7 of the Companies Act 1985 by reason of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted on or after that date.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That: a in accordance with Article 7.2 of the Companys Articles of Association, the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash: b the directors be given power to allot equity securities for cash within Section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985 as if Section 89 1 of that Act did not apply: c the powers under paragraph a above other than in connection with a rights issue and paragraph b above shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 2,500,000: d these authorities shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, on 13 December 2005: and e all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 shall cease to have effect.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the Company is generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors of the Company may from time to time determine, provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares that may be purchased under this authority is 20,000,000 representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital : b the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share purchased under this authority is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market prices shown in quotations for ordinary shares in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased and the minimum price which may be paid is 25p per ordinary share in each case exclusive of expenses and advance corporation tax if any payable by the Company : c unless previously renewed, varied or revoked this authority will expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or, if earlier, 13 December 2005: d the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before its expiry which will or may be executed in whole or partly after expiry of this authority.
Resolution 10 91 Notice of meeting continued 11.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That in accordance with Section 347 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company is authorised: a to make donations to EU political organisations, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total: and b to incur EU political expenditure, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total, during the period of four years beginning with the date of this resolution.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That in accordance with Section 347 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, Marconi Communications Limited, being a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is authorised: a to make donations to EU political organisations, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total: and b to incur EU political expenditure, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total, during the period of four years beginning with the date of this resolution.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That in accordance with Section 347 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, Albany Partnership Limited, being a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is authorised: a to make donations to EU political organisations, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total: and b to incur EU political expenditure, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total, during the period of four years beginning with the date of this resolution.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That in accordance with Section 347 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, Marconi Communications GmbH, being a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is authorised: a to make donations to EU political organisations, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total: and b to incur EU political expenditure, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total, during the period of four years beginning with the date of this resolution.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That in accordance with Section 347 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, Marconi Montage & Inbetriebnahme GmbH, being a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is authorised: a to make donations to EU political organisations, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total: and b to incur EU political expenditure, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total, during the period of four years beginning with the date of this resolution.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That in accordance with Section 347 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, Marconi Communications SpA, being a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is authorised: a to make donations to EU political organisations, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total: and b to incur EU political expenditure, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total, during the period of four years beginning with the date of this resolution.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That in accordance with Section 347 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, Marconi Sud SpA, being a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is authorised: a to make donations to EU political organisations, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total: and b to incur EU political expenditure, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 50,000 per annum in total, during the period of four years beginning with the date of this resolution.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That: a the Marconi Sharesave Plan the Sharesave Plan, a summary of which is contained in the Appendix to the Chairmans letter dated 9 June 2004 and the draft rules of which are produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purposes of identification, be and is hereby approved and adopted subject to any amendments required by the Inland Revenue in order to obtain approval to the Sharesave Plan under the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 : b the directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and things which they may consider necessary or expedient for the purposes of implementing and giving effect to the Sharesave Plan: and c the directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to establish further share plans based on the Sharesave Plan for the benefit of employees of the Company or its subsidiaries as defined in the Companies Act 1985 resident outside the United Kingdom modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories, provided that any ordinary shares made available under such further plans must be treated as counting against any individual or overall limits contained in the Sharesave Plan.
By Order of the Board Marconi Corporation plc M A Skelly Company Secretary New Century Park, PO Box 53 Coventry CV3 1HJ 9 June 2004 Notes 1.
For the purposes of regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the Members entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting shall be those entered in the Companys Register of Members at 11.00am on 11 September 2004.
Any subsequent changes to the Register shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
A Member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a Member.
The enclosed form of proxy should be lodged with the Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
The lodging of a proxy form will not preclude a member from subsequently attending and voting at the Meeting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
The form of proxy includes boxes for completion by shareholders who wish to withhold their votes.
The vote on resolution 2 is an advisory vote and arises from the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Mr McWilliams, Mr Binning and Mr Hickson were appointed to the Board since the date of the last annual general meeting and are required by the articles of association of the Company to be subject to reappointment at the general meeting next following.
Their biographies are to be found on page 27.
Copies of the directors service contracts, the register of directors share interests and the rules of the Sharesave Plan will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday except Saturday and public holidays and at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London from one hour prior to and during the Meeting.
Copies of the rules of the Sharesave Plan will also be available at the offices of Allen & Overy LLP, One New Change, London EC4M 9QQ during normal business hours on any weekday except Saturday and any public holidays.
Coffee and tea will be served from 10.00am to 10.55am and after the conclusion of the Meeting.
93 Glossary of terms 3G Third Generation third-generation protocols in mobile telephony that support the much higher data rates needed for broadband and bandwidth-hungry applications such as full-motion video, videoconferencing and full internet access.
Access Networks our Fixed Wireless Access, Access Hub and narrowband access product activities.
ASTN Automatic Switched Transport Network a technology that uses the GMPLS signalling protocol to set-up and monitor edge-to-edge transport connections and restore faults automatically.
ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode a transfer mode in which the information is organised into fixed-length cells instead of variably length packets.
AXH Access Hub our Access Hub platform.
AXR Access Radio our Access Radio platform.
BBRS our Broadband Routing and Switching business.
BXR-48000 Broadband Switch Router our high-end switch-router platform.
CALA Central and Latin America.
CDMA Code Division Multiple Access a form of wireless multiplexing, in which data can be sent over multiple frequencies simultaneously, optimizing the use of available bandwidth.
Combined Code the Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to the Listing Rules.
the Company Marconi Corporation plc.
Core the designation given to the central portion of a network where all types of traffic come together in order to be transmitted to their intended destinations.
CWDM Coarse Wave Division Multiplexing a type of multiplexing that uses lasers to overlay optical light channels in a pipe.
DSL Digital Subscriber Line a high speed method to move data over a phone line.
DWDM Dense Wave Division Multiplexing a type of multiplexing that uses up to 160 different colours also known as lambdas or channels to provide high-capacity bandwidth across an optical fibre network.
Edge the designation given to the outer limits of a network where end users typically enter the network in order to gain access to services and information.
EMEA Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Ethernet line cards a type of line card used in optical switches that allows traffic and services to be passed to end users via an Ethernet connection.
ETSI European Telecommunications Standard Institute an independent, non-profit organisation, whose mission is to produce telecommunications standards for today and for the future.
FTTC Fibre to the Curb or FTTH Fibre to the Home the installation and use of optical fibre cable directly to the curbs near homes or any business environment as a replacement for plain old telephone service POTS.
GMPLS Generalised Multiprotocol Label Switching a proposed industry standard to simplify the creation and management of IP services over optical networks.
the Group the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings.
GSM Global System for Mobile communications the fide facto 2G wireless telephone standard in Europe.
It was designed to support voice, data, text messaging and cross-border roaming.
GSM is a time division multiplex TDM system, implemented on 900, 1800 and 1900 MHz frequency bands.
Hiper Access an ETSI wireless standard for broadband wireless access.
IC&M our Installation, Commissioning and Maintenance business.
94 IP Internet Protocol a connectionless, best-effort packet switching protocol that offers a common layer over dissimilar networks.
Junior Notes the guaranteed junior secured notes due 2008 issued by the Company as a part of the Restructuring.
LAN Local Area Network a data network intended to serve an area of only a few square kilometres or less.
LIBOR the London Inter-bank Offered Rate.
Listing Rules the Listing Rules issued in the UK by the Financial Services Authority.
M 2003 plc the company formerly known as Marconi plc, that was the ultimate parent company of the Marconi Group until the effective date of the Restructuring.
MAN Metropolitan Area Network a network designed to carry data over an area larger than a campus, such as an entire city and its outlying area.
MDMS Marconi Digital Multipoint System our broadband radio access platform delivering toll-quality voice, leased lines and Ethernet-based data traffic to multi-dwelling, small and medium enterprises.
MDRS Marconi Digital Radio System our point-to-point wireless system for short-haul or long-haul access, feeder and backhaul applications operating over a frequency range of 4 to 38 GHz.
Metro a network designed to carry data over an area larger than a campus, such as an entire city and its outlying area.
MPLS Multiple Protocol Label Switching a way of making the best of IP and ATM technologies into one to create multiservice networks that carry any type of traffic.
NAA our North American Access business, which was sold in February 2004.
NARF our North American Ring Fence businesses, mainly comprising the equipment and services activities of our three US-based businesses: BBRS, OPP and NAA.
Network Equipment our network equipment businesses, mainly comprising Optical Networks, BBRS, Access Networks, OPP and Other Network Equipment.
Network Services our network services businesses, mainly comprising our IC&M and VAS businesses.
Non-NARF our non-North American Ring Fenced businesses, mainly comprising our European and Rest of the World based businesses: Optical Networks, Access Networks, Other Network Equipment and Network Services.
Notes the Junior Notes and the Senior Notes together, unless the context dictates otherwise.
OCS Optical Core Switch the generic industry designation that we use to describe our family of Core optical switches.
OPP our Outside Plant and Power business.
Optical Networks our SDH and DWDM transmission equipment, and our network management systems business.
OTN Optical Transport Network a series of proposed industry standards to boost network bandwidth by building more network functionality into Optical Networks.
PBX Private Branch Exchange a private telephone exchange that transmits calls internally and to and from the public telephone network.
PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network the international telephone system based on copper wires carrying analog voice data.
Restructuring, financial restructuring the financial restructuring of the Group that took effect on 19 May 2003 pursuant to Schemes of Arrangement of the Company and M 2003 plc.
95 Glossary of terms continued SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy a transport technology using optical signals.
Using a mesh ring network topology, SDH transmits data using a point-to-point method that ensures reliability if a link is broken.
Senior Notes the guaranteed senior secured notes due 2008 issued by the Company as a part of the Restructuring.
ServiceOn our portfolio of carrier-class, open-standard network management products.
SIP Session Initiation Protocol an open standard for establishing and managing multiparty, mixed-media communications sessions over converged networks.
Softswitch software-based, carrier-class servers that control voice phone calls across circuitand packet-switched networks.
The attraction softswitches hold is that they cost about a tenth of regular local phone switches, take up much less space, and have open interfaces that enable third-party vendors to write complex services to the switches control.
They also enable completion of calls between circuit-switched and packet networks, enabling carriers to use a single network for voice and data traffic.
Strategic Communications our Strategic Communications business, which was sold in August 2002.
STRGL our consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses.
TDM Time Division Multiplexing a method of traditional digital multiplexing in which a signal occupies a fixed, repetitive time slot within a higher-rate signal.
UK GAAP generally accepted accounting principles applicable in the UK, including Financial Reporting Standards and Statements of Standard Accounting Practice issued by the Accounting Standards Board, consistently applied and as in effect from time to time.
US GAAP generally accepted accounting principles applicable in the US.
VAS our Value Added Services business.
VDSL Very high bit rate Digital Subscriber Line a DSL-based transmission method that sends data in the 13 Mbps 55 Mbps range over short distances, usually between 1,000 and 4,500 feet 300 1,500 metres, of twisted pair copper wire.
The shorter the distance, the faster the connection rate.
ViPr Virtual Presence our desktop video telephony platform that offers multi-party videoconferencing over IP networks.
VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol a means to transport voice, video and data over a packet wide-area IP network.
This does not mean using the public internet.
Data is broken into packets and may be transported using different routes to be assembled into their correct order at the receiving end.
VPN Virtual Private Network a private voice communications network built on public switching and transport facilities rather than dedicated leased facilities such as T1.
VTOA Voice & Telephony Over ATM a single, integrated infrastructure that can manage and deliver all types of subscriber signals audio, data, voice, and video as well as switched and dedicated services reliably and efficiently.
WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access the industry standard that defines point-to-point broadband wireless access.
xDSL x Digital Subscriber Line a generic way to refer to all the different variations of DSL which can include symmetrical, asymmetrical, DSL Lite, etc.
96 Contents 1 Key financials 2 Chairmans statement 4 Chief Executives review 6 Operating and financial review 22 Marconi people 24 Technology overview 27 Directors 28 Corporate governance 32 Directors report 35 Report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration 44 Corporate social responsibility 46 Statement of directors responsibilities 47 Independent auditors report 48 Consolidated profit and loss account 49 Balance sheets 50 Consolidated cash flow statement 50 Reconciliation of net cash flow movements in net monetary funds debt 51 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 51 Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders interests 52 Notes to the accounts 87 Statistical information 2000 to 2004 88 Information for shareholders 90 Shareholder services 91 Notice of meeting 94 Glossary of terms Produced by Radley Yeldar London Marconi Corporation plc Annual report and accounts 2003-04 Marconi Corporation plc Annual report and accounts 2003-04 Marconi Corporation plc New Century Park PO Box 53 Coventry CV3 1HJ United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 24 7656 2000 Facsimile: 44 0 24 7656 7000 www.
