in accordance with FRS 5, Application The numerator is profit before Note G Revenue Recognition issued interest, less tax.
The denominator November 2003 to report sales and is the calculated average of net turnover net of vouchers and on a intangibles plus net tangible fixed assets commission-only basis for mobile phone plus net investments in joint ventures airtime sales.
and associates plus net working capital and long-term provisions.
2 Excludes integration costs and goodwill amortisation.
Operating margin is based 8 Store sizes exclude lobby and upon turnover exclusive of VAT.
3 Underlying profit, underlying earnings 9 Average store size excludes per share and underlying diluted earnings Express and T&S stores.
per share exclude net loss on disposal 10 Based on average number of fullof fixed assets, integration costs and time equivalent employees in the UK.
11 Based on turnover exclusive of VAT, 4 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 statistics have underlying operating profit and total been calculated based on the adoption staff cost per full-time equivalent of FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
5 Market capitalisation plus net debt.
12 Based on weighted average sales 6 Underlying profit divided by average area and sales excluding property shareholders funds.
This material is recyclable, bio-degradable and is approved recycled grade.
This product complies with ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 Accreditation.
TESCO PLC 57 Designed and produced b D y Corporate Edge 020 7855 5888 Photography by Arnhel fide Serra Printed by CTD Printers Ltd COVER: BARRY AUSTIN, SANDHURST EXTRA Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL TESCO PLC ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2004 AROUND THE WORLD UNITED KINGDOM CZECH REPUBLIC HUNGARY POLAND REPUBLIC OF IRELAND SLOVAKIA TURKEY JAPAN MALAYSIA SOUTH KOREA TAIWAN THAILAND 2 Financial highlights and Chairmans statement 4 Chief Executives review 6 World leading team 10 Customer focus 14 Inclusive offer 18 Non-food 22 Delivering value 24 Follow the customer 26 Operational excellence 28 Corporate social responsibility 30 Board of directors 32 Summary directors report 34 Summary financial statement and operating and financial review 36 Investor information NUMBER OVERVIEW OF STORES Our core business is in the United Kingdom where over 237,000 people are committed UNITED to delivering Every little helps for our customers making Tesco the UKs biggest private 1,878 KINGDOM sector employer.
We have 1,878 stores in the UK, including 910 T&S Stores.
We serve over 1.2 million customers in our 16 hypermarkets and six department CZECH stores in the Czech Republic.
We opened five new stores this year, employ 7,500 local 22 REPUBLIC people and have created over 1,000 new jobs.
Tesco moved into Hungary in 1994.
Since then we have built up the business to become market leader with a market share of 14%.
We currently have over 13,500 60 HUNGARY staff employed in our operation, serving 1.5 million customers each week.
This year we completed the integration of HIT stores.
We are hypermarket leader and our 16,000 staff serve 1.9 million customers each week.
This year we opened our 69 POLAND first distribution centre near Warsaw.
The business was acquired in 1997.
We continue to lead the way on price in the REPUBLIC Republic of Ireland and our market share has grown.
This year we opened eight new 82 OF IRELAND stores and our first Distribution Centre at Ballymun, Dublin.
We are market leader in Slovakia and opened six stores this year more than any other retailer.
Our market share is increasing and our 6,000 people serve one million 23 SLOVAKIA customers each week.
In November 2003 we bought Kipa, a small but successful business comprising of four modern hypermarkets in the city of Izmir on the Western coast of Turkey and one 5 TURKEY in the town of Denizli further inland.
This year we acquired C Two-Network, which consists of 78 food stores located in and around Tokyo.
Customers will benefit from the combination of our international 78 JAPAN retail experience and C Two-Networks local customer knowledge.
This year we opened two more hypermarkets in Malaysia, bringing our total to five.
One of our stores at Mutiara Damansara is our 5 MALAYSIA first store to open in the north of the country.
This year we opened seven hypermarkets.
Rapid SOUTH expansion has meant that we now have a total of 28 hypermarkets serving over two 28 KOREA million customers every week.
We moved into Taiwan in 2000 and since then have opened four stores.
We employ 1,500 staff and serve around 20,000 customers every week.
This year we opened the 4 TAIWAN countrys first mini hypermarket in Taipei.
In the six years since we moved into Thailand the business has expanded rapidly and Tesco is the countrys leading retailer.
We employ 19,000 people in 47 hypermarkets 64 THAILAND and 17 Express stores.
Each month 10 million customers shop with us.
WE DELIVER THIS THROUGH OUR VALUES NO-ONE TRIES HARDER FOR CUSTOMERS AND TREAT PEOPLE HOW WE LIKE TO BE TREATED.
MONIKA OTCOUSK KARLOVY VARY, CZECH REPUBLIC TESCO PLC 1 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GROUP SALES 18.7% UNDERLYING GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX 21.9% GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX 17.6% UNDERLYING DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 16.7% DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 11.3% DIVIDEND PER SHARE 10.3% 2004 2004 2003 52 weeks 53 weeks pro forma Group sales m including value added tax 33,557 32,989 28,280 Underlying Group profit before tax m 1,708 1,684 1,401 Group profit before tax m 1,600 1,576 1,361 Underlying diluted earnings per share p 16.31 13.98 Diluted earnings per share p 14.93 13.42 Dividend per share p 6.84 6.20 Group enterprise value m market capitalisation plus net debt 23,866 16,896 Return on capital employed 10.5% 10.2% Excluding net loss on disposal of xed assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation.
Restated as a result of FRS 5, Application Note G, Revenue Recognition.
2 TESCO PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I AM PLEASED TO REPORT THAT THIS YEAR THE TESCO GROUP HAS AGAIN DELIVERED AN EXCELLENT SET OF RESULTS.
I BELIEVE THEY REFLECT THE STRENGTH OF THE TESCO STRATEGY AND THE TEAMS ABILITY TO FOCUS AND EXECUTE WELL.
For the full year on a 53 week basis, Group sales have risen by 18.7% to 33.6bn and underlying pre-tax profit is up 21.9% to 1,708m.
Over the same period, pre-tax profit on a statutory basis is up 17.6% to 1,600m.
Earnings per share is 16.31p, up 16.7%.
The Board proposes a final dividend of 4.77p, up 10.2% on last year.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.07p, gives a full year dividend of 6.84p, up 10.3%.
Our growth has again been driven by delivering a great shopping trip for customers wherever we operate.
We have seen an exceptional performance in the UK this year, reecting our investment in lower prices and all round customer offer.
Non-food is now a scale business, it goes from strength to strength, increasing the attractiveness of our stores in the UK and is also a key feature of our international hypermarkets.
Retailing services, with Tesco Personal Finance in the forefront, has had a very strong year.
Our international business has achieved another year of strong growth in sales, profits and market share gains.
DAVID REID CHAIRMAN We are delivering in all areas of our business.
We have strong momentum and there is more to come.
I would like to thank each of the 326,000 employees in the Group for their contribution.
Our people are the key to delivering for customers and our results reect the excellent work of our staff at all levels.
They will receive a record 148m in profit share this year.
Our expansion programme will create more than 20,000 new jobs at home and abroad.
BOARD CHANGES Tesco have a good track record of well planned succession.
This year has seen a number of changes to the Board.
Rowley Ager Company Secretary and John Gildersleeve Commercial and Trading Director have both retired, we thank them both for their contribution and wish them well after many years of loyal service.
I am pleased to announce that Richard Brasher has joined the Board as Commercial and Trading Director and Lucy Neville-Rolfe has been appointed as our new Company Secretary.
I have taken over Non-executive Chairmanship from John Gardiner.
On behalf of the Board, I thank him for 16 years service and wish him well in his retirement.
We have also announced that Mervyn Davies CEO of Standard Chartered, and Ken Hydon Financial Director at Vodafone have joined the Board as Non-executive Directors.
Looking ahead, next year will be as competitive as ever and we have an excellent plan to improve the shopping trip for our customers, particularly in light of the changes in the UK industry.
Tesco welcomes new challenges and competition and we believe we will continue to deliver the best shopping experience for our customers.
TESCO PLC 3 IN THE UK, OUR CORE BUSINESS HAS DELIVERED OUTSTANDING FIGURES AND GAINED SHARE FROM ALL PARTS OF THE MARKET.
4 TESCO PLC T R S E R A T E M P O E T O S P U L C E R H O O F W R E W LEADING THE WAY CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We have delivered an excellent performance this year and further developed all four parts of our growth strategy.
This strategy was first set out seven years ago.
At that CREATING time we had little or no experience in non-food, retailing services or international retailing.
VALUE FOR CUSTOMERS TO As a business we have come through the period of greatest risk.
We have established EARN THEIR a strong and diverse business in the UK.
We have grown our non-food business from LIFETIME almost nowhere and established some strong retailing services.
We have moved from LOYALTY being the number three domestic retailer to being one of the top three international retailers in the world.
This year, our out-performance of the UK retail market has been the highest since records began.
We have further improved our price position with nearly 200m investment this year, maintaining our position as the UKs best value retailer.
We have seen a step change in non-foods growing market share from 5% to 6%.
The number of retail services accounts has increased by 36%.
Internationally, we are market leader in five countries, OUR STEP CHANGE and achieved a 44% increase in profit.
PROGRAMME ENSURES EFFICIENCY SAVINGS We have an inclusive offer and everyone is welcome at Tesco.
We have listened to our ARE RE-INVESTED customers and delivered better product availability, clearer aisles, shorter queues, lower FOR CUSTOMERS.
WE prices and great service.
We have opened 21 Extra stores, 20 Superstores, four Metros DELIVERED SAVINGS OF and refreshed 71 stores this year.
We have further evidence that customers love our Express format.
We now have 277 Express stores and the customer offer is the best in the convenience sector.
The acquisition of T&S Stores has been a success.
We have converted 138 T&S Stores to the Express format and the trading performance has been ahead of plan as customers enjoy the lower prices across a wider range of products.
NON-FOOD We have a substantial non-food business that is growing rapidly.
We are CLUBCARD IS THE UKS achieving our goal of being as strong in non-food as we are in food.
Highlights this year MOST POPULAR LOYALTY include being number one retailer in the baby goods market and achieving 60% sales SCHEME.
IN THE YEAR growth in DVDs.
We have completely rebuilt the clothing supply chain, investing in new WE HAVE GIVEN OUR distribution facilities, new supplier relationships and dedicated staff in store.
RETAILING SERVICES We have seen further exciting developments in the year.
In total we have 5.2 million banking, Tesco.
com and Telecoms accounts and we are opening nearly 50,000 new accounts each week.
INTERNATIONAL We are trading very well and have grown share in all our markets.
This year we opened 37 hypermarkets giving us an additional 3m sq ft of sales space.
THIS YEAR WE HAVE There is further growth to come by adding new formats such as compact hypermarkets SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED and Express, complementing our existing store network.
We are focusing on driving THE HIT INTEGRATION IN sales through price reductions and strong promotions.
We have worked hard to lower POLAND AND ACQUIRED THE our buying costs and store operating costs.
As a result, operating margins have increased.
C TWO-NETWORK IN JAPAN SUMMARY It has been an outstanding year for Tesco, because we have made shopping AND KIPA IN TURKEY.
in a Tesco store, wherever we operate, better than it was last year.
TESCO PLC 5 D E R A L I H K E S E T I O R T B E E N T O R - E O A N T E D All of our people benefit from training and we are committed to sharing knowledge and giving everyone the chance to progress through the company.
With exible working, part time roles and shift swapping, we help our people balance their work and home life.
Our industry-leading benets package lets our staff share in the success they have help create.
TRACY NEIL DUNDEE RIVERSIDE STORE 6 TESCO PLC WORLD LEADING TEAM THE EXTRA MILE We know that the key to delivering our business strategy is our people.
By building a world-class Tesco team we will ensure that we continue to serve our customers better than anyone.
As the UKs largest private sector employer we have a responsibility to look after our 237,000 people so they can go the extra mile for our customers.
We were very proud this year when their hard work was recognised with the Most Admired Company award from Management Today magazine.
GOING THE EXTRA MILE NICKY GRAY MEADOWS EXTRA Sandhurst, UK LIVING THE VALUES At Tesco, our core purpose is, To create value for customers to earn their lifetime loyalty.
We deliver this through our Values, No-one tries harder for customers and Treat people how we like to be treated.
The Values describe the way we work together.
To help us celebrate the great work our people do every day for our customers and their colleagues we have Values Awards.
This year we have issued over 360,000 Values Awards to our people throughout the business.
The Values are also practised by our overseas businesses.
At the Company Conference, for instance, a Values Award was presented to representatives of our Taiwan business for their outstanding efforts this year.
EVERY LITTLE HELPS FOR OUR PEOPLE We are committed to looking after our people and helping make Tesco a better place to work.
We know what our people want to be treated with respect, a manager who helps them, an interesting job and an MELAKA HYPERMARKET Malaysia opportunity to get on.
Over the past year, we have worked hard to deliver these promises by developing our people and simplifying jobs.
We have regular staff forums that allow our people to share ideas and discuss problems and twice a year all members of staff are invited to take part in our Viewpoint questionnaire, to tell us exactly how they feel about working for Tesco.
We also have Viewpoint in most of our overseas businesses such as the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
We use the feedback to improve our business further for our people.
EVERY LITTLE HELPS FOR OUR CUSTOMERS We are committed to making Tesco a better place to shop.
By continually talking to our customers and listening to their needs, we know what they want clear aisles, to be able to buy what they want, good prices, no queues and great staff.
The delivery of these five simple things has been the focus of the UK business over the past 12 months.
We are constantly trying to operate in a way that makes the shopping trip better for customers, work simpler for staff and LETNANY HYPERMARKET the operation cheaper for Tesco.
Prague, Czech Republic TESCO PLC 7 WORLD LEADING TEAM WORLD CLASS PEOPLE At Tesco we are committed to developing our people to bring out the best in everyone.
In all the countries where we operate we employ local people.
We have less than 120 expatriates in all our overseas operations.
By recruiting the best, we can be sure that no-one tries harder for customers.
This year in Hungary, Anita Fazekas, one of our store directors won, Hypermarket Store Director of the Year.
SPOTTING OUR TALENT By offering support and development we strive to attract and retain the best people.
All of our staff have access to training programmes and everyone has a personal development plan to ensure they have the right skills to do their job.
Through our Talent Spotting programme, staff have a career discussion with their line manager to plan their career in Tesco.
Those identied as having the potential to move to bigger or different jobs are then put in a talent pool to match the right job for the right person.
This helps individuals to make the most of the opportunities available RADKA ZAJICKOU AND to them.
MONIKA HLADIKOV KARLOVY VARY Czech Republic LETS TWIST AGAIN In the UK, this year saw the second stage of our TWIST Tesco Week In Store Together programme.
Directors and managers from all parts of the business had the opportunity to work in our stores, listening to the views of staff and STAFF NUMBERS customers and seeing how to deliver initiatives simply and successfully.
So far over 1,000 managers have gone back to the shopoor through TWIST.
We will be rolling out TWIST UNITED KINGDOM in Korea and Thailand next year.
Through feedback from managers on TWIST and First 237,000 Steps, our ideas capture programme, we have made step change savings of nearly 5m.
EUROPE LOOKING AFTER OUR PEOPLE 55,000 STAFF BENEFITS Tesco has a comprehensive range of staff benets and all staff in the ASIA UK who have been with the company for over a year receive an Annual Benets Report, detailing their pay and benets over the previous 12 months.
Staff are eligible 34,000 for a Privilegecard after one years service, which entitles them to 10% discount at Tesco.
Staff can take advantage of a 20% reduction on gym membership across the UK, 10% discount on holidays through our travel agent Freetime, childcare vouchers and reduced price BUPA membership.
We also have an award-winning dened benefit pension scheme that currently has over 127,000 members.
SAVE AS YOU EARN Staff from all parts of the business can take part in our employee share ownership schemes our profit share scheme Shares In Success, Save As You Earn SAYE and Buy As You Earn BAYE.
In February 2004 over 45,000 Tesco staff across the UK celebrated a 110m pay-out as two SAYE share schemes matured.
Top investors netted nearly 30,000, while over 67% of staff chose to reinvest their shares and leave them to mature as a long-term investment in the business.
MICHAEL TURNER HOVE SUPERSTORE UK 8 TESCO PLC CASE STUDY LIVING SERVICE This year we have spent over 12 million on training.
850 managers have gone through our Stores Leadership Programme.
We also launched LIVING SERVICE a programme which introduces new skills to the whole team to help everyone give great service.
Feedback has shown that Living Service helps our staff enjoy their job more, helps release more potential, energy and talent and live the Values No-one tries harder for customers and Treat people how we like to be treated.
1 2 3 4 1 SCOTT CROWE Living Service coach, using training techniques to demonstrate the importance of teamwork.
2 Staff are encouraged to analyse their behaviour in relation to the team and themselves.
3 An exercise in trust, teamwork and logistics as the participants, some blindfolded, try to solve a physical task.
4 24-year-old CHRIS FOX, took the Firelighter course, part of the stores leadership programme.
Chris has since successfully Staff are encouraged to know their stuff, show they care and share a smile trained towards being a department manager.
TESCO PLC 9 In all our global operations we employ local people with the knowledge and experience to deliver for their local customers.
They are supported by small teams from the UK to help share best practice.
In addition to the UK stores, we have 179 stores in Asia and 261 in Europe.
VLADIMIR TKC BENZINOL HYPERMARKET, SLOVAKIA 10 TESCO PLC CUSTOMER FOCUS SHARING KNOWLEDGE Wherever in the world we operate we tailor our offer around the local customer.
We share our experience, knowledge and best practice throughout the business to deliver a great shopping experience for customers.
The skills we have learnt through our UK convenience stores were shared with our operation in Thailand, where we now have 10 Express stores and in the Republic of Ireland our first Express store opened at Ratoath in January 2004.
Our teams in the Czech Republic have shared their produce expertise across Europe to help provide better, simpler and cheaper produce in all our stores.
TRANSFER KNOW-HOW This year we became the first retailer in Malaysia to offer permanent price cuts as part of our commitment to deliver unbeatable value for our customers, wherever we operate.
The team carried out two price reduction programmes and we LETNANY HYPERMARKET have permanently reduced prices on 2,000 popular grocery and household lines.
Just Prague, Czech Republic as in the UK, a dedicated team checks over 10,000 prices each week to make sure we sell for less.
This year also saw price reduction campaigns in Thailand and Korea, while we continued our programme of investing in price in our other established businesses.
CLUBCARD Tesco Clubcard is the UKs most popular loyalty scheme and there are currently over 10 million Clubcard holders.
During the year, we sent out over 360 million in vouchers and coupons and in February 2004, we delivered our largest mailing so far, with 66 million in vouchers.
Customers can collect AIR MILES with Clubcard and 242 million AIR MILES have been issued this year.
There are now over 5,000 venues where customers can earn Clubcard points, including opticians Dolland & We are committed to selling local Aitchison, Marriott hotels and gas and electricity provider Powergen.
Over 800,000 fresh produce and buying from local suppliers wherever possible.
Clubcard holders are members of one of our clubs, such as World of Wine or Babyclub and are eligible for further discounts and special offers.
SHARING KNOWLEDGE FAMILY CARD Last year Tesco Homeplus launched their own loyalty card in Korea based on our successful Clubcard formula.
Our customers receive points with a cash value to use against purchases in our stores.
This year, subscription to the Korean Familycard, has grown signicantly and there are currently 2.5 million cardholders, covering 77% of sales.
FOLLOW THE CUSTOMER We are continuing to expand and grow our international offer by building on the shared learning from our UK operations.
This year we are planning to roll out insurance services and Tesco Mobile in South Korea.
In Hungary we launched the Fitt range with 50 new products to add to our 1,200 Value and Standard products.
In February we successfully opened our first petrol lling station in Budapest.
TESCO PLC 11 CUSTOMER FOCUS INTERNATIONAL Our aim is to develop a world-class team to look after our customers wherever we operate.
By recruiting strong local management and by listening to our customers in the communities where our stores are based, we understand the marketplace and our customers needs.
In Europe, our sales are up 27.5% and profits up 30.5%, while in Asia sales are up 31.1% and profits up 71.8%.
This year we have opened 22 stores in Asia and 22 stores in Central Europe.
The key to our international growth is understanding our customers and building the best store networks in every country that we operate.
Listening to our customers YOUNGDEUNGPO HYPERMARKET LOCAL KNOWLEDGE In the Czech Republic, we employ over 7,500 local people and have South Korea created over 1,000 new job opportunities this year.
In Poland, we were voted Best Retail Employer of the Year in a survey for Newsweek magazine.
We created over 1,500 new jobs in Poland, mainly in rural areas where unemployment is high.
LOCAL PRODUCTS Wherever we operate, we cater for local tastes, providing customers with the products they want.
Local sourcing, wherever practicable, means many products are sourced from within each national market.
For example, our stores in Scotland sell around 1,000 Scottish products from 183 Scottish companies.
We sell around 800 Welsh lines in our Welsh stores.
In Northern Ireland, we have 70 suppliers with 1,500 lines produced in the country.
UNDERSTANDING CUSTOMER NEEDS Keeping prices low KLANG HYPERMARKET Malaysia In the UK we carry out Customer Question Times.
This year we held 177 sessions, interviewing 9,000 customers and 2,000 staff.
The sessions allow our customers to express their opinion on our stores, products and Tesco as a company.
In Hungary, we now measure customer satisfaction every month and we have launched a new service initiative at the check-out for customers so that they dont have to queue, in line with our Customer Reality Research and our One in Front initiatives in the UK.
KNOWING THE CUSTOMER In Slovakia we are the only retailer to have 24-hour opening.
Customers can nd more than 1,400 Tesco branded products in our stores.
In Hungary our 60 stores serve 1.5 million customers a week.
This year in Thailand we have opened our Value Store at Mukdaharn, a compact hypermarket format developed specically to serve smaller regional communities in rural areas.
The store offers customers a choice of around 15,000 products slightly less than half the product range of a standard Thai hypermarket.
In Thailand, to help us understand our local customers better, we In 2003 our own-brand was visit their homes, talk to our customers and even go shopping with them!
voted the most popular retail brand in Slovakia.
12 TESCO PLC CASE STUDY SLOVAKIA In Tesco we have a format to meet all our customers needs, from Express, our convenience offer, to Extra, our hypermarkets.
In Slovakia, where we have a marketleading position, we opened six stores this year.
We have been leading the way in smaller town retailing, in addition to 120,000 sq ft and 50,000 sq ft hypermarkets, this year we have opened two 30,000 sq ft compact hypermarkets, developed to serve smaller regional communities.
23 1 45 6 1 BENZINOL HYPERMARKET A new 120,000 sq ft hypermarket on the outskirts of Bratislava.
2 BENZINOL HYPERMARKET The latest offering for customers, 24 hours a day.
3 NOV ZMKY HYPERMARKET A new format 50,000 sq ft hypermarket offering the full range and customer service areas.
4 NOV ZMKY HYPERMARKET The recent opening of a centralised produce distribution centre and the introduction of quality control in the centre has improved the freshness of the produce in the stores.
5 DUBNICA NAD VHOM Staff from the local area focus on value for the local community.
6 DUBNICA NAD VHOM A new compact 30,000 sq ft format, a destination store for the area offering a wide assortment of low cost, bulk stacked, value food and non-food products.
TESCO PLC 13 This year in the UK we have opened 21 Extras, eight new builds and 13 extensions giving us 83 in total, devoting more space than ever to non-food.
We have also opened 20 Superstores, four Metros and converted 138 T&S Stores to our Express convenience format.
DES CRAWFORD MANAGER, WOOD GREEN EXPRESS 14 TESCO PLC INCLUSIVE OFFER UNBEATABLE RANGE At Tesco we understand that all our customers have different tastes.
To ensure that we cater for everyone, we have an inclusive offer ranging from Value to Finest products.
We offer unbeatable quality, range and service and each week a dedicated team of price checkers compares prices of the contents of an everyday shopping basket to make sure that we sell for less.
VALUE FOR EVERYONE This year saw the tenth anniversary of the launch of our Value brand and our prices today are cheaper than a decade ago.
The price of 41 lines in a shopping basket in 1993 was 19.31.
Today that cost is just 12.59 a saving of 6.72 or 35%.
We have re-launched our Value packaging in a contemporary style and introduced new Cookshop, clothing, stationery and grocery lines.
There are now 1,200 products in the Tesco Value range and 70% of Tesco customers buy from the Value brand.
FINEST EXPANSION Our Finest range continues to expand.
This year we have launched 400 new lines.
We now have over 1,200 products that are bought by over five million customers every month.
Recent additions to the range include Finest sandwiches.
Over Christmas we launched new convenience and limited edition party food lines including Cranberry and Filo parcels.
Our Finest Vintage Christmas pudding was voted the best in a Which?
magazine taste test and we sold 10 million individual mince pies.
Over 37% of all our customers buy both Finest and Value products.
ORGANIC GROWTH We are the UKs largest organic retailer and are committed to developing organic alternatives to our standard lines.
Our Organic range continues to grow, we now have over 1,245 lines in the organics range with most superstores stocking at least 600 lines.
This year we sold 30 million organic bananas and over 46 million organic eggs.
FAIRTRADE AND FREE FROM Tesco supports the work of the Fairtrade Foundation to help give a better deal for third world producers.
Over the past 12 months our sales of Fairtrade products have doubled and we are the market leader with 32% of the market.
We stock over 90 Fairtrade products.
Our pioneering Free From range offers a healthy choice for the growing number of people who suffer from a food allergy or intolerance.
We now stock over 120 Free From branded items, including 40 own-brand products, and are market leader with over 40% market share.
catering for everyone... VALUE, CHOICE AND CONVENIENCE PRICES ARE RIGHT As Britains best value supermarket we know that price is as important to our customers as range, availability and service.
Over the past year we have invested nearly 200 million on price cuts to give our customers even better value.
Every week we check over 10,000 prices against other supermarkets to make sure our prices are right.
TESCO PLC 15 INCLUSIVE OFFER CONVENIENCE OFFER We understand our customers needs and continually listen to customer and staff feedback to improve our offer for everyone.
We recognise that convenience is becoming increasingly important to our customers, as peoples shopping habits change.
We have a strong and accelerating organic growth strategy in the convenience market.
Next year we will open 31 new stores and convert 194 T&S stores, giving us a total of over 500 convenience shops.
In January we announced we were acquiring 45 convenience stores from Adminstore Ltd. We will be converting most of these stores to our Express format.
This allows us to accelerate our growth in Central London where we do not have many Express stores and bring lower prices, improved service and better ranges to even more customers.
STORE FORMATS We tailor our stores to meet our individual customers requirements and HELENKA CEPOKOVA all our formats provide a different shopping experience.
Our portfolio of stores: Extra, DUBNICA NAD VHOM Slovakia Superstore, Metro and Express are all different store types but all offer outstanding value.
We now have 83 Extras, 447 Superstores, 161 Metro and 277 Express stores in the UK.
STORE FORMATS This year we have continued to develop different store types in our markets in Asia and Europe to suit our different customers needs.
Slovakia has opened two compact UNITED KINGDOM 83 Extras hypermarkets this year.
In Budapest, Hungary, we opened our first petrol station.
In the 447 Superstores Republic of Ireland, we have opened our first Express Store at Ratoath and have also 161 Metro High Street opened our first two petrol lling stations.
In Taiwan, we opened the first compact 277 Express 910 T&S hypermarket in the country at Taipei, while in Thailand we now have 10 Express stores offering convenient, neighbourhood shopping and plan to open a further 40 over the EUROPE 110 Hypermarkets next two years.
11 Department stores 139 Supermarkets REFRESH AND EXTENSION Our ongoing UK development plan combines our Refresh 1 Express programme and extending our existing stores, modernising and improving the layout ASIA and size.
Throughout 2003 we refreshed 71 stores and extended a further 28.
Feedback 84 Hypermarkets shows that we increased customer satisfaction levels by 16% when we extend our 84 Supermarkets 11 Express stores stores and by 10% after a Refresh.
At our Swansea store, 92% of customers were pleased with the new look store and praised the extended layout and non-food range.
TAILORED TO LOCAL CUSTOMER NEEDS EXPANSION This year in the UK we have opened 64 new stores eight Extras, 20 Superstores, four Metros, 30 Express and two T&S Stores.
Feedback from our recent openings at Warrington and Newton Aycliffe has seen customer satisfaction levels above 90%.
Our Warrington Extra store offers new services, including an electrical service desk and new jewellery counter.
New look Future stores that make shopping better for customers and work simpler for staff are also being tested at Hove and Merthyr Tydl.
LOCAL CUSTOMER NEEDS We now have 364 stores that are open 24 hours a day and are continually looking for new ways to serve our customers better.
We are currently testing Self-Service checkouts in 21 stores, to help deliver even better service, especially MEADOWS EXTRA Sandhurst, UK on our Express checkouts, and are looking at a programme to simplify the way in cameras for sale.
which payment is handled and administered.
16 TESCO PLC CASE STUDY T&S STORES TO EXPRESS Last year we acquired T&S STORES and their 870 convenience outlets.
We are planning to convert around half of these to Express.
This year we have carried out 138 T&S conversions.
EXPRESS brings all the benets of Tesco to neighbourhoods from the inner city to the country village.
Customers benefit from lower prices and improved ranges including more fresh products.
Our Express offer has seen widespread expansion in 2003 with an increase from 109 stores to 277, including 13 Express Rets.
Listening to our customers has led us to improve our Express offer including the introduction of promotional lines and Value products.
12 3 4 5 1 MEIR HAY T&S STORE 2 Before refurbishment a friendly local store, but limited fresh food lines.
3 Local staff who already work in the T&S store, will retrain for the opening of the Express store.
4 The Tesco property team move in to refurbish the store.
The whole process takes four weeks from beginning to completion.
5 MEIR HAY TESCO EXPRESS opening day, 8 March 2004.
TESCO PLC 17 HONPIAM DOKMAI AND COMFU RATREE BANGKAPI HYPERMARKET, BANGKOK, THAILAND Our international non-food offer is just as strong as in the UK and we continue to tailor our offer to suit our local customers needs in all countries that we operate.
Around 50% of oor space in our Central European and Asian hypemarkets is designated as non-food.
18 TESCO PLC NON-FOOD NON-FOOD OFFER An integral part of our four part strategy is to be as strong in nonfood as we are in food.
Our non-food business continues to grow rapidly.
We now have a substantial business with sales across the Group in total of over 7 billion.
We continue to expand our non-food offer in our Extra stores, Superstores and online through Tesco.
com to provide the choice, value and convenience that our customers expect from Tesco.
This year our share of the non-food markets we are in has risen from 5% to 6%.
INTERNATIONAL In Korea we sell over 42,000 non-food items.
Customers can choose from a huge range of home furnishings and electrical items to CDs and leisure goods.
All our Korean stores have dedicated jewellery counters with over 500 different items available in each store.
Our customers like our non-food offer and in our Taiwan stores, Value tissues are the best selling item with four million unit sales this year.
Electricals, clothing and home entertainment are available in all our stores in Central Europe.
ANSUN HYPERMARKET Seoul, South Korea In Hungary our stores have aisles dedicated to selling tyres that customers can get tted free of charge at a garage in the store car park.
NEW RANGES, OWN BRANDS NEW RANGES This year in the UK, we have expanded our ranges of non-food items across our entire shopping offer.
You will now see Tesco own-brand, Value and even Finest across the non-food offer.
New lines introduced this year include Value tted sheets and duvet sets and Cookshop items including garlic presses and corkscrews.
Customers like the value, choice and convenience of our entertainment offer and Tesco had 25% market share of the bestseller Harry Potter and The Order of the Phoenix in the first four weeks of its launch.
This year we have seen DVD sales increase by 60% compared to last year.
Tesco now sells over 19% of all chart CDs sold in the UK.
New lines introduced this year HEALTH AND BEAUTY Our UK health and beauty ranges continue to grow as we improve include Value Cookshop items.
the offer for our customers.
We are the fastest growing skincare retailer in the market.
This year we sold twice as many Christmas beauty gift sets as we did in 2002 and our Skin Wisdom range is now the second biggest skincare brand in Tesco.
We have a volume market-leading position in both toiletries and healthcare and we are number one retailer in the baby goods markets.
Across all our health and beauty ranges we continue to invest in price to deliver the value our customers expect and this year we invested 27 million on health and beauty pricing alone so that they can buy for less.
We now have 19 stores with opticians and nearly 200 stores with pharmacies, helping customers with a one-stop shopping experience.
Book sales have increased dramatically this year.
TESCO PLC 19 CLOTHING Our clothing offer, Cherokee, Florence Fred, and Value, has shown remarkable growth in the past 12 months.
Tesco market share of the total clothing market has increased by 26% and this growth has been in all areas.
To put this in perspective, our clothing offer has expanded by six times the national rate.
In the last four years clothing sales have doubled.
NEW LOOK, NEW RANGE We have an inclusive clothing offer ranging from Value to Finest Our Value jeans that retail for and continue to innovate for our customers.
Our Value jeans that retail for 4 were 4 were singled out for extensive singled out for extensive national press coverage and our Florence Fred range was national press coverage voted Best Supermarket Fashion by Woman magazine.
Our latest clothing launches include a Finest menswear range featuring cashmere wool jumpers and Honeysoles footwear, a comfort adult shoe range exclusive to Tesco.
Over 300 stores now stock our outerwear clothing range, that accounts for 90% of the clothing business and a further 70 stores have been retted with new clothing equipment.
By the end of next year we will have retted nearly 300 stores.
An additional 400 stores have our underwear Essentials range.
To ensure our clothing customers get the same service they expect from the rest of our shopping offer, there are dedicated clothing managers in our largest 190 stores.
This year we will be rolling out kiddies essentials and baby basics in 450 stores.
The Florence Fred range was FASTWAY DISTRIBUTION This year we have completely rebuilt the clothing supply chain, voted Best Supermarket Fashion by Woman magazine investing in new distribution facilities, new supplier relationships and dedicated staff in store.
We opened Fastway, our dedicated clothing Distribution Centre at Daventry.
Managed by Tibbet and Britten, our fashion logistics partner, it has 256,000 sq ft of warehouse space equivalent to six football pitches and makes 1,500 store deliveries in an average week.
All of our boxed clothing has been brought together to make delivery more efficient and there is additional capacity to enable non-food business growth.
Deliveries are based on each stores clothing sales.
Getting the right product to the right store at the right time means customers benefit from more staff on the shopoor, better presentation and availability of products.
INTERNATIONAL Our international clothing offer continues to expand, and in Korea our dedicated childrenswear range No.
1 for Kids has 1,500 items from 15 different brands.
Drawing on the continued success of our UK clothing offer, our stores in Slovakia and BENZINOL HYPERMARKET Slovakia the Czech Republic have launched their own Tesco clothing ranges.
20 TESCO PLC CASE STUDY CHEROKEE Our exclusive Cherokee clothing range was launched in August 2002, combining high quality fashion with exceptional prices.
Designed to suit the British market the brand was expected to increase our casual clothing business by 15%.
However, it actually grew by over 30% and continues to expand.
Cherokee provides a winning combination of style and affordability and has been well received by the fashion press.
At the Prima High Street Fashion Awards 2003 fashion designer Jeff Banks presented Cherokee with the Brand to Watch Award.
23 1 4 1 DAVENTRY FASTWAY A dedicated clothing distribution centre with Cherokee merchandise ready for dispatching.
2 MENSWEAR The Cherokee range offers great clothing for men.
3 WOMENSWEAR The range also includes maternity wear, a petite range as well as clothing for kids and babies.
4 ADVERTISING A shot from the autumn TV Cherokee campaign.
TESCO PLC 21 This year we launched a new phone ordering service for owers and wine deliveries to anywhere in the UK.
There are over 800 wines available that can be ordered by the case and can be delivered seven days a week.
Customers can choose from exclusive wines and special offers that are not available in store and receive Clubcard points with their order.
ALI GORDON DUNDEE RIVERSIDE STORE 22 TESCO PLC DELIVERING VALUE 577m OUR ONLINE OFFER Tesco.
com is the worlds biggest online supermarket and this year 447m we had total sales of over 577 million, an increase of 29% on last year.
Every week 356m in the UK we handle around 120,000 orders with our eet of over 1,000 delivery 237m vans.
Over a million households nationwide have taken advantage of our online offer 52m and we now operate in over 270 stores around the country, covering 96% of the UK.
04 ADDING EXTRA VALUE To deliver even more value for our customers this year we have expanded our site into new ranges offering a larger choice than in our stores.
Over 03 1.2 million books and 160,000 CD, video and DVD titles are now available, together 02 with a huge range of electrical items from mobile phones and plasma televisions to washing machines and fridge-freezers.
We have also linked up with online travel agent 01 lastminute.
com to provide holiday deals and travel offers worldwide.
Customers can 00 even make savings on their gas and electricity bills by using our price checker service on the internet.
This year we bought the rest of iVillage UK previously a joint venture with iVillage Inc., the UKs largest website dedicated to womens issues www.
RECORD BREAKING SALES Over Christmas we had record breaking sales, with half a million deliveries in December, which was more sales than we achieved in the whole of 1999.
Our customers ordered 250 million items, buying one million mince pies, two million sprouts and enough champagne to ll 20 milk tankers.
GLOBAL HOME DELIVERY We continue to export our Tesco Home Shopping model overseas and this year expanded our USA joint venture to include Seattle.
GroceryWorks, our partnership with Safeway Inc. in America, is now serving customers across the We have launched a new phone ordering service for whole of California.
In the Republic of Ireland the service now covers over 70% of the owers and wine deliveries anywhere in the UK.
Last year we launched our first venture in our Asian markets when we launched our service in South Korea.
TALK THE TALK COST EFFECTIVE TELECOMS Building on the success of Tesco Personal Finance, this year we expanded our telecoms offer by launching Tesco Mobile, our mobile phone service in partnership with O and our Home Phone service.
net, our 2 established internet access service, these services offer our customers the chance to take advantage of supermarket-style offers and pay less for their phone calls.
Tesco This year we launched Mobile and Home Phone offer simplicity and value from a trusted name.
tariffs make it easy and convenient for customers to switch to our service and earn Clubcard points with their calls.
Tesco Mobile handsets can be bought in store or over the internet.
Over half a million customers have now signed up with our telecom services.
TESCO PLC 23 t t e e s s c c o o.. c c o o m m s s a a ll e e s s FOLLOW THE CUSTOMER CONVENIENCE AND CHOICE Our retailing services continue to go from strength to strength and this year Tesco Personal Finance TPF alone made a pre-tax post minority profit of 160 million, of which Tescos share is 80 million.
TPF offers our customers the value, choice and convenience they expect from Tesco.
This year our joint venture with the Royal Bank of Scotland Group opened 1.7 million new customer accounts, making a total of 4.2 million.
There are currently 11 products available when and where our customers need them online, over the telephone and in store.
At the recent Advertising and Marketing Effectiveness Awards, TPF won a Gold medallion for our Talking Trolleys campaign.
SAVINGS AND LOANS Customers can take advantage of competitive rates and the convenience of having instant access to their savings with cheque deposit facilities at checkouts and customer service desks.
TPF has cut the cost of borrowing with a typical on-line loan rate of just 6.8%.
CREDIT CARDS In the first six months of this year we opened more credit card accounts than we did in the whole of last year.
Over two million people now own a Tesco credit card and our customers earn Clubcard points with every purchase.
INSURANCE This year TPF reached the milestone of one million motor insurance policies, making it the fastest growing motor insurance provider ever.
Our instant travel insurance allows Clubcard holders to buy their holiday insurance conveniently at the checkout.
Our pet insurance now has over 330,000 cats and dogs covered, while our life insurance policy followed on from the success of last year, when we were voted The Most Competitive Life Insurance Provider in the MoneyFacts Awards 2003.
CASH MACHINES There are now over 1,000 TPF cash machines at Tesco stores.
Every time a withdrawal was made from one of our machines during a promotional period TPF donated 1p to our Charity of the Year, the Barnardos Building Blocks Appeal.
The promotion raised 165,000 for the charity.
PRODUCTS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 24 7 FINANCE Loans Credit Card INNOVATION After the success of instant travel insurance, this year TPF rolled out instant Savings breakdown cover in our stores.
Clubcard customers can pick up a leaet, pay at the Flexible Mortgage Travel Money checkout and drive away covered.
We recognise that our customers want to be able to access our products and services 24 hours a day and our internet sales continue INSURANCE to grow with over 30% of sales now on-line.
Customers can even pay for their motor Motor Insurance Home Insurance insurance premiums using their Clubcard on-line vouchers.
Life Insurance Pet Insurance Instant Travel Insurance Instant Breakdown Cover 24 TESCO PLC KERIAN WIGGS CUSTOMER Customers like our convenient, simple and competitive financial products and services.
Mother of four Mrs Kerian Wiggs was delighted with the way that TPF looked after her when she had to claim on her Tesco home insurance.
Kerian, a registered childminder, was mowing her lawn when a stone ew up and smashed the living room window.
She called our 24 hour helpline and within 20 minutes Kerian had been contacted by the repairers to make all the necessary arrangements.
She didnt have to ring round to get quotes for the repair and the potentially dangerous window was quickly and efficiently replaced.
TESCO PLC 25 Wherever we operate, whether in the United Kingdom, Europe or Asia, our step change programme continually improves our operations by making them better, simpler and cheaper for both the business and our customers.
SMAHAN HASSAN FASTWAY DISTRIBUTION CENTRE, DAVENTRY 26 TESCO PLC OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE BETTER, SIMPLER AND CHEAPER In the UK, we have delivered savings of over 200 million this year through combining new processes and investing in new systems.
Our industry leading Continuous Replenishment system orders products based on the continuous information from our checkouts, which means we can provide wider product ranges with better availability.
Over 50% of our supplier volume is now handled by primary distribution, which improves the movement of goods from the factory to our distribution centres.
This year we have opened a 256,000 sq ft dedicated clothing NOV ZNKY HYPERMARKET Slovakia Products are ordered based distribution centre at Daventry, servicing all of our stores in the UK.
on the continuous information from our checkouts.
INNOVATIONS We have delivered many new systems to the UK this year, all intended to make work simpler for staff and improve service for customers.
All of our UK stores now have hand-held computers providing key information on the sales oor, simplifying our stock and order operation for our people.
Our customer service desks have access to our intranet and we have automated all of the key processes.
This has helped to improve the speed and quality of our responses to customer queries.
This year we have tested self-service checkouts to help reduce queuing and congestion while offering greater choice to our customers.
During Christmas over 371,000 customers used these checkouts in our 21 trial stores, scanning goods worth over 5 million.
We have HOVE SUPERSTORE UK experimented with radio barcodes in our supply chain and in stores to improve availability The introduction of self-service checkouts in some stores.
30% for customers and make life easier for staff.
These radio barcodes are able to carry of our checkout bank in our more information than traditional barcodes, enabling staff to know where products are new Hove store is self-service.
located, and when shelves need re-stocking.
SUPPLY CHAIN INTERNATIONAL As part of our programme for long-term growth we have invested throughout the supply chain in our European and Asian businesses this year.
Based on our UK centralised distribution model, in March 2003 we opened the largest Distribution Centre DC in Asia.
The 1.5 million sq ft centre in Mokchon has signicantly improved our supply chain capability in Korea.
In Poland we opened our first DC in Teresin, near Warsaw, creating 360 new jobs.
In just three months we built the Jazlovice Distribution HERCEGHALOM Hungary Centre in the Czech Republic.
This 260,000 sq ft DC now supplies all of our stores Central Distribution warehouse in the country and has a capacity of 29,000 pallets.
In Hungary we extended our central distribution warehouse at Herceghalom, which now supplies 80% of centrally allocated stock.
We have introduced a new state-of-the-art system to improve productivity and are currently building a new fresh food DC, due to open in Hungary in August 2004.
A new 209,000 sq ft Composite DC has opened at Ballymun near Dublin and will supply all of our stores in the Republic of Ireland.
This completes the centralisation of all fresh food suppliers.
TESCO PLC 27 EVERY LITTLE HELPS ACTING RESPONSIBLY Our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR objective is to earn the trust of our customers by acting responsibly within the communities that we serve.
We focus our CSR programme around three areas: Being a good employer by providing training and opportunities for all our staff: making a positive contribution to local communities: and minimising our environmental impact.
We are a member of the Business in the Community 1% Club by donating over 1% of our pre-tax profits to charity.
We are one of the top companies in the Business in The Community BiTC Corporate Social Responsibility Index 2003 and listed in the FTSE4Good index of socially responsible companies.
COMMUNITY Each year we adopt a national charity with a strong community presence to be the Tesco Charity of the Year.
This year we chose Barnardos and thousands of staff have helped raise 2.5 million for the Tesco Building Blocks Appeal.
Next year we will be working with Help the Hospices.
The Charity of the Year provides a focus for staff fundraising and the money raised is topped up by 20% by the Tesco Charity Trust.
During the year, the Charity Trust also made cash grants of nearly 650,000 to charities and presented 124 Community Awards to community-based projects.
URBAN REGENERATION Our nine regeneration schemes around the country have created over 3,200 jobs for the long-term unemployed.
This year we opened new partnerships at Shettlestone, Warrington and Batley.
RACE FOR LIFE For the second year running we were main sponsor of Cancer Research UKs Race for Life.
This year over 300,000 women took part in 130 events around the British Isles, raising 17.5 million to help ght the cancers that touch womens lives.
As national presenting sponsor we were awarded the Hollis Sponsorship award and the Marketing Week Effectiveness award for ethical marketing.
Race for Life and Computers for Schools were recognised by BiTC and received the Big Tick award.
ENVIRONMENT We are committed to reducing the amount of waste that we produce and to recycling, with a comprehensive programme for ourselves and our customers.
In the year we recycled over 80% of our cardboard and plastic waste that would otherwise have gone into landll sites.
We have reduced water and energy consumption in the last 12 months by over 4%.
We are running solar and wind power trials to assess their financial viability.
This year we have also introduced 100% biodegradable carrier bags and tested new recycling units for CDs and cardboard at Borehamwood, Royston and Watford stores.
INTERNATIONAL In Poland we have developed Tesco for Schools, using the successful UK Computers for Schools model, and have provided 35 schools across the country with multimedia equipment worth 100,000.
Poland has also adopted Charity of the Year fundraising activities for Caritas Polska.
In the Republic of Ireland we sponsored the Special Olympics 2003, where teams from 160 countries and 7,000 athletes, including three of our staff, participated.
For more information log on to www.
com everylittlehelps 28 TESCO PLC Since launching Computers for Schools in 1992 we have given away computer equipment worth 84 million.
Over two-thirds of all schools in the UK now participate in the scheme and this year over 1,000 new schools signed up.
During the year, we gave away 7 million worth of equipment to 24,000 schools.
KERRIE McCARTHY CAMBRIDGE EXTRA TESCO PLC 29 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 30 TESCO PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 DAVID REID 57 2 RODNEY CHASE 60 3 SIR TERRY LEAHY 48 BOARD CHANGES NON-EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN DEPUTY CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE This year Tesco PLC announced SENIOR NON-EXECUTIVE David Reid became NonTerry Leahy became Chief a series of changes as part Rodney Chase was appointed executive Chairman in April Executive in 1997.
Joining of the long-term development a Non-executive Director 2004.
Prior to his appointment Tesco in 1979, he held a of its Board.
He is also a Nonhe was Deputy Chairman of number of marketing and executive Director of Diageo Tesco PLC and served on the commercial positions prior Following the retirement of plc and Computer Sciences Tesco Board since 1985. to being appointed to the John Gardiner, David Reid has Corporation.
Board of Tesco PLC in 1992. taken over as Non-executive Chairman in April 2004.
Rowley Ager and John Gildersleeve both retired from the PLC in February.
Richard Brasher has succeeded 4 RICHARD BRASHER 42 5 PHILIP CLARKE 43 6 ANDREW HIGGINSON 46 John Gildersleeve as Commercial COMMERCIAL AND INTERNATIONAL FINANCE AND and Trading Director.
Lucy TRADING DIRECTOR AND IT DIRECTOR STRATEGY DIRECTOR Neville-Rolfe has succeeded Richard Brasher was appointed Philip Clarke was appointed to Andrew Higginson was Rowley Ager as Company to the Board in March 2004. the Board in 1998.
Prior to his appointed to the Board in 1997.
Secretary and joins the PLC He joined Tesco in 1986.
He has appointment he held a number He is a member of the 100 Executive Committee.
held a number of marketing, of roles in store operations, Group of Finance Directors, commercial and store commercial and marketing.
Chairman of Tesco Personal Ken Hydon joined the Board operations positions, most Finance and Non-executive in February 2004 as a Nonrecently Non-food Director of C & J Clark Limited.
Member of the Audit Committee 7 TIM MASON 46 8 DAVID POTTS 46 9 CHARLES ALLEN CBE 47 Member of the Nominations Committee MARKETING, ECOMMERCE, RETAIL AND LOGISTICS DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Member of the Remuneration Committee PROPERTY AND REPUBLIC David Potts was appointed to Charles Allen was appointed OF IRELAND DIRECTOR the Board in 1998.
He joined a Non-executive Director in Tim Mason was appointed to Tesco in 1973 and has held 1999.
He is Chief Executive the Board in 1995.
He joined a number of store and Head of ITV PLC.
From 1997 he executive Director of Capital directed the integration of our Radio PLC.
businesses in Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland before returning to the UK in his current role in July 2000.
10 E MERVYN DAVIES 51 11 DR HARALD EINSMANN 70 12 KEN HYDON 59 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Mervyn Davies was appointed Dr Harald Einsmann was Ken Hydon was appointed a Non-executive Director appointed a Non-executive a Non-executive Director in 2003.
He is Group Chief Director in 1999.
He is the Financial Executive of Standard Non-executive Director of EMI Director of Vodafone Group Chartered PLC.
Group PLC, is on the Board Plc, a member of the Board of of Stora Enso Oyj, part of the Representatives of the Verizon Wallenberg Group and is a Partnership in the USA and Director of British American a Non-executive Director of Tobacco PLC.
13 VERONIQUE MORALI 45 14 GRAHAM PIMLOTT 54 LUCY NEVILLE-ROLFE 51 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR COMPANY SECRETARY Veronique Morali was appointed Graham Pimlott was appointed Lucy Neville-Rolfe was a Non-executive Director in a Non-executive Director in appointed Company Secretary 2000.
He is a Non-executive in March 2004 in addition to officer and Director of Fimalac S. A.
Director of Provident Financial her role as Group Corporate PLC and Chairman of Export Affairs Director.
She joined Credit Guarantee Department.
Tesco in 1997 from the Cabinet He is Deputy Chairman of Ofce and is Non-executive Hammerson PLC.
Director of the Foreign Ofce and Deputy Chair of The British Retail Consortium.
TESCO PLC 31 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TESCO PLC We have examined the summary financial statement of Tesco PLC.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY AND BUSINESS REVIEW The principal activity of the Group is the operation of AND AUDITORS The Directors are food stores and associated activities in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Hungary, Poland, Czech Republic, responsible for preparing the Annual Review and Summary Financial Slovakia, Thailand, South Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia.
During the year we entered the Turkish and Statement in accordance with Japanese markets.
The summary operating and financial review is on pages 34 to 35. applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you, our opinion on the DIVIDENDS The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 4.77p per ordinary consistency of the Summary Financial share to be paid on 25 June 2004 to members on the Register at the close of business on Statement, the Directors emoluments 30 April 2004.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.07p per ordinary share paid in November and the summary of executive share 2003 the total dividend for the year comes to 6.84p, compared with 6.20p for the previous options and disclosable shareholdings within the Annual Review and year, an increase of 10.3%.
Summary Financial Statement 2004 with the Annual Report and Financial DIRECTORS Details of the current members of the Board are shown on pages 30 and 31.
Mr C Statements 2004, the Directors L Allen, Mr P A Clarke, Dr H Einsmann, Ms V Morali and Mr G F Pimlott retire from the Board report and the Report of the by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Mr R W Directors on Remuneration and P Brasher, Mr E M Davies, Mr K J Hydon and Mr D E Reid were appointed by the Board in its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the last 12 months and as required by the articles also offer themselves for election.
the Companies Act 1985 and the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The company has complied with all the provisions of the 1998 Combined regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained Code on Corporate Governance except with regard to the provision on the length of the in the Annual Review and Summary Directors service contracts.
This has been reviewed and the Board is moving to one-year contracts.
Financial Statement and consider An assessment of the Revised Combined Code issued in 2003 confirmed the company is the implications for our report if substantially compliant.
The company is taking action in order to be fully compliant with the new we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material code before it comes into effect next reporting year.
The company has an established framework inconsistencies with the summary of internal control which is reviewed by the Audit Committee and has a separate Executive financial statement.
This statement, Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee.
A full corporate governance including the opinion, has been statement is contained in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004. prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the SUMMARY REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS ON REMUNERATION Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The remuneration packages, including contract periods of this opinion, accept or assume Executive Directors, are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
It ensures that the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom remuneration package is appropriate for their responsibilities, taking into consideration the overall this statement is shown or into financial and business position of the Group, the highly competitive industry of which the Group whose hands it may come save is part and the importance of recruiting and retaining management of the appropriate calibre.
where expressly agreed by our As a result of this years review of Executive Directors remuneration, the Remuneration Committee prior consent in writing.
has proposed a number of changes to short and long-term incentives.
The changes seek to align BASIS OF OPINION We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin the interest of Executive Directors and shareholders more closely in promoting the companys 1999 6 The auditors statement on progress and are subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board Executive Directors are members of the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme, which is a dened benefit for use in the United Kingdom.
scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
OPINION In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with COMPLIANCE The Remuneration Committee has been constituted and operated throughout the the Annual Report and Financial period in accordance with the principles outlined in the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules Statements and the Directors report derived from Schedule A of the Combined Code.
In framing the remuneration policy, full consideration of Tesco PLC for the year ended has been given to the best practice provisions set out in Schedule B, annexed to the Listing Rules.
28 February 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section A summary of Directors emoluments and interests, including executive options, is set out on 251 of the Companies Act 1985, page 33.
A more detailed analysis is provided in the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the regulations made thereunder.
Copies of the Executive Directors contracts of employment are available for inspection by  LLP Chartered Accountants and shareholders as required.
Registered Auditors The Groups total shareholder return performance can be found on page 35.
b Retired from the Tesco Group in March 2004.
Mr R S Ager and Mr J Gildersleeve were awarded bonuses of 150,000 each, which have been sacrificed in return for pension augmentation.
c Mr D E Reid has sacrificed an amount of 430,000 from his long-term bonus relating to overseas business growth in return for pension augmentation.
Mr D E Reid resigned as an Executive Director in December 2003 and was appointed Non-executive Chairman in April 2004.
Options granted include new family interests that fall to be reported during the year.
In addition, certain Directors held options under the companys savings-related share option scheme.
b The value realisable from shares acquired on exercise is the difference between the fair market value at exercise and the exercise price of the options, although the shares may have been retained.
TESCO PLC 33 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT AND OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT This was another successful trading Our world-leading step change programmes continue to deliver year for the Group.
Group increasing levels of efficiencies enabling us to invest for underlying pre-tax profit, excluding net loss on disposal of xed customers.
We delivered savings of over 200m this year.
assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation, increased by Sales in the Rest of Europe increased to 3,834m, up 27.5% 21.9% to 1,708m.
Underlying diluted earnings per share rose and contributed an underlying operating profit of 184m, up 16.7% to 16.31p and diluted earnings per share rose 11.3% to 30.5%.
In Asia, sales were up 31.1% to 2,847m and we made 14.93p.
A final dividend of 4.77p per share is proposed, making an underlying operating profit of 122m, up 71.8% on last year.
the full year dividend 6.84p, an increase of 10.3% over last year.
International profit has grown from 212m to 306m, up 44%.
On a 52-week basis, International operating margins increased to 5.1% from 4.5%.
Of this, 6.7% came from Total profit from joint ventures and associates for the year was existing stores, including strong volume growth of 6.6% net.
New 99m, before goodwill amortisation of 2m, compared to 72m stores continue to perform well, contributing 7.5% to sales last year.
Tax has been charged at an effective rate of 31.1% growth.
UK underlying operating profit increased to 1,526m compared to 30.5% last year.
Our UK operating margin remained broadly at at 6.2% in a year when we again made substantial investments Net interest payable for the year was 223m, an increase of in price.
The summary financial statement on Continuing operations pages 34 and 35 and the summary Acquisitions 2003 Directors report on pages 32 and 2004 2004 2004 restated SUMMARY PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT m m m m 33 are a summary of information in the Annual Report and Financial Sales at net selling prices 33,418 139 33,557 28,280 Statements 2004.
This summary Turnover including share of joint ventures 30,919 131 31,050 26,197 financial statement does not contain Less: share of joint ventures turnover 236 236 193 sufficient information to allow for a Group turnover excluding value added tax 30,683 131 30,814 26,004 full understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs Normal operating expenses 28,804 121 28,925 24,444 of the company and the Group.
Employee profit-sharing 57 57 51 The Directors report, the accounts Integration costs 45 45 4 and Auditors report on those Goodwill amortisation 48 4 52 21 accounts, which is unqualied, are Operating profit 1,729 6 1,735 1,484 contained in a separate publication profit from joint ventures and associates 97 97 70 entitled Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004.
Copies may be Net loss on disposal of xed assets 9 9 13 obtained free of charge by writing to: Interest 223 223 180 The Company Secretary, Tesco PLC, profit before tax 1,594 6 1,600 1,361 Tesco House, Delamare Road, Underlying profit before net loss on disposal of xed Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL.
assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation 1,708 1,401 Telephone 01992 632222.
Net loss on disposal of xed assets 9 13 Shareholders wishing to receive Integration costs 45 4 the Annual Report and Financial Goodwill amortisation 54 23 Statements as well as the Annual Tax 498 415 Review and Summary Financial Statement in future years should profit after tax 1,102 946 write to this address.
Minority interests 2 profit for the financial year 1,100 946 The summary financial statement Dividends 516 443 was approved by the Board Retained profit 584 503 on 19 April 2004.
Earnings per share 15.05p 13.54p Terry Leahy Underlying diluted earnings per share 16.31p 13.98p Andrew Higginson Diluted earnings per share 14.93p 13.42p Directors Dividend per share 6.84p 6.20p Excluding net loss on disposal of xed assets, integration costs and goodwill amortisation.
34 TESCO PLC SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET BALANCE SHEET Net assets have increased by 1,431m last year 2004 2003 to 7,990m.
Fixed assets increased by 1,362m, after charging m m depreciation and goodwill amortisation of 754m.
Fixed assets 15,423 14,061 Group capital expenditure was 2,285m.
UK capital expenditure Current assets 3,139 2,440 was 1,520m, including 735m on new stores and 272m on Short-term creditors 5,618 5,372 extensions and rets.
Total international capital expenditure was Net current liabilities 2,479 2,932 765m, 322m in Asia and 443m in Europe.
In the year ahead Total assets less current liabilities 12,944 11,129 we forecast Group capital expenditure to be around 2.4bn.
Long-term creditors 4,368 4,049 Provisions 586 521 Net assets 7,990 6,559 Equity shareholders funds 7,945 6,516 Minority interests 45 43 Total capital employed 7,990 6,559 CASH FLOW STATEMENT Cash inow from operations increased SUMMARY CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2004 2003 by 23.9% to 2,942m.
Net interest paid includes cash received m m on sale of financial instruments of 235m.
Cash from operations 2,942 2,375 Changes in nancing is signicantly higher than last year due to Net interest 61 218 net proceeds of 773m from the share placing.
Business changes Tax 326 366 primarily consists of consideration paid for the C Two-Network Gross trading cash ow 2,555 1,791 and Kipa acquisitions.
Net capital expenditure 2,228 2,052 Changes in nancing 868 73 Net debt at the year end was 4,090m, a reduction of 647m Dividends 303 368 on the previous year.
Gearing decreased to 51% from 73% last year.
Normal cash ow 892 556 Business changes 217 597 Non-cash movements 28 24 Movement in net debt 647 1,177 Opening net debt 4,737 3,560 Closing net debt 4,090 4,737 PERFORMANCE GRAPH The Groups total shareholder return performance i. e. share price movements plus dividends reinvested Tes co over the last five financial years relative to the FTSE 100 index 150 of companies is shown below.
This index has been selected to provide an established and broad-based comparator group of retail and non-retail companies of similar scale to Tesco, against which the Groups TSR performance can be measured.
2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 statistics have been calculated based on the adoption of FRS 19, Deferred Tax.
Sales and turnover have been restated as a result of the implementation of FRS 5, Application Note G, Revenue Recognition.
Employees excludes shares held in nominee accounts on behalf of employees for Shares In Success.
36 TESCO PLC REGISTRAR AND SHAREHOLDING ENQUIRIES FINANCIAL CALENDAR Administrative enquiries about the holding of Tesco PLC 2004 shares other than ADRs and enquiries in relation to Financial year end 28 February the scrip dividend scheme should be directed to: Results announced 20 April Final dividend: Lloyds TSB Registrars ex-dividend date 28 April The Causeway, Worthing, Final dividend: West Sussex BN99 6DA record date 30 April Telephone 0870 600 3970 Annual Report posted 14 May AGM and trading LOW COST DEALING statement 18 June The company has arranged a low cost postal share Final dividend pay date 25 June dealing service through Lloyds TSB Registrars.
For details Half year end 14 August and a dealing form please telephone 0870 600 3970.
Interim results announced mid September TESCO WEBSITES Interim dividend: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and ex-dividend date 29 September integrity of the financial information on the website.
This Interim dividend: information has been prepared under UK accounting record date 1 October standards and legislation.
Trading statement mid November Tesco information, including the Annual Report and Interim dividend: Financial Statements 2004, is available on the internet pay date 26 November at: www.
com corporateinformation 2005 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ONLINE Financial year end 26 February Tesco shareholders have the option of viewing the Results announced mid April Annual Report through the internet.
The information will be exactly the same as the printed version, but using the internet has clear advantages such as lowering our costs and reducing environmental waste.
CUSTOMER SERVICES Tesco Customer Services Freepost SCO2298 Baird Avenue, Dundee DD1 1YP Telephone 0800 505555 e-mail customer.
co. uk INVESTOR RELATIONS Investor Relations Department Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL Telephone 01992 646484 e-mail investor.
com SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE Lucy Neville-Rolfe Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL This material is recyclable, bio-degradable and is approved recycled grade.
Telephone 01992 632222 This product complies with ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 Accreditation.
Designed and produced by Corporate Edge 020 7855 5888 Photography by Arnhel fide Serra Printed by CTD Printers Ltd. COVER: HARISH THAPA AND ALEX BOATENG ABREFA, SANDHURST EXTRA Tesco PLC, Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire EN8 9SL
