ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS These financial FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Fixed assets are carried at cost statements have been prepared under the historical cost and include amounts in respect of interest paid on funds convention, in accordance with applicable accounting standards specically related to the nancing of assets in the course of and the Companies Act 1985. construction.
Interest is capitalised on a gross basis.
As in the prior year, the Group has continued to account for Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the pensions and other post-employment benets in accordance anticipated useful economic lives of the assets.
with SSAP 24 but has complied with the transitional disclosure The following rates applied for the Group and are consistent requirements of FRS 17.
These transitional disclosures are with the prior year: presented in note 27.
Land premia paid in excess of the alternative use value at 2.5% of cost.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group financial statements consist of the financial statements of the parent company, its subsidiary Freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years undertakings and the Groups share of interests in joint unexpired at 2.5% of cost.
The accounts of the parent companys Leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are subsidiary undertakings are prepared to dates around 28 amortised by equal annual instalments over the unexpired February 2004 apart from Global T. H. Tesco Polska Sp.
Tesco Stores CR a. s. Tesco Stores SR a. s. Tesco Kipa A. S., Plant, equipment, xtures and ttings and motor vehicles Samsung Tesco Co. Limited, Tesco Malaysia Sdn Bhd, at rates varying from 10% to 33%.
Tesco Taiwan Co. Limited, Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Ltd and C Two-Network Co. Ltd which prepared accounts to GOODWILL Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and 31 December 2003.
In the opinion of the Directors, it is amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life, necessary for the above named subsidiaries to prepare accounts up to a maximum of 20 years.
to a date earlier than the rest of the Group to enable the timely publication of the Group financial statements.
IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSETS AND GOODWILL Fixed assets and The Groups interests in joint ventures are accounted for using goodwill are subject to review for impairment in accordance the gross equity method.
The Groups interests in associates are with FRS 11, Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill.
Any accounted for using the equity method.
impairment is recognised in the profit and loss account in the year in which it occurs.
TURNOVER Turnover consists of sales through retail outlets and sales of development properties, excluding value added tax.
The LEASING Plant, equipment and xtures and ttings which are the policy was revised this year in accordance with FRS 5 Application subject of finance leases are dealt with in the financial statements Note G Revenue Recognition issued November 2003.
Turnover as tangible xed assets and equivalent liabilities at what would is now reported net of vouchers and on a commission-only otherwise have been the cost of outright purchase.
basis for mobile phone airtime sales.
Turnover is stated net of Rentals are apportioned between reductions of the respective returns.
liabilities and finance charges, the latter being calculated by reference to the rates of interest implicit in the leases.
The STOCKS Stocks comprise goods held for resale and properties finance charges are dealt with under interest payable in the held for, or in the course of, development and are valued at profit and loss account.
the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Stocks in stores are calculated at retail prices and reduced by appropriate margins Leased assets are depreciated in accordance with the to take into account factors such as obsolescence, seasonality depreciation accounting policy over the anticipated working lives and damage.
of the assets which generally correspond to the primary rental periods.
The cost of operating leases in respect of land and MONEY MARKET DEPOSITS Money market deposits are stated at buildings and other assets is expensed as incurred.
All income from these investments is included in the profit and loss account as interest receivable and similar income.
30 TESCO PLC TAXATION The amount included in the profit and loss account FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivative instruments utilised by the is based on pre-tax reported income and is calculated at current Group are interest rate swaps, oors and caps, forward start local tax rates, taking into account timing differences and the interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward rate likelihood of realisation of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
agreements and forward exchange contracts and options.
Termination payments made or received in respect of derivatives DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing are spread over the life of the underlying exposure in cases differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance where the underlying exposure continues to exist.
Where the sheet date and which could give rise to an obligation to pay underlying exposure ceases to exist, any termination payments more or less taxation in the future.
Deferred tax assets are are taken to the profit and loss account.
recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Interest differentials on derivative instruments are recognised by They are regarded as recoverable to the extent that on the adjusting net interest payable.
Premia or discounts on derivative basis of all available evidence, it is regarded as more likely than instruments are amortised over the shorter of the life of the not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the instrument or the underlying exposure.
future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis Currency swap agreements are valued at closing rates of at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in exchange.
Forward exchange contracts are valued at discounted which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws closing forward rates of exchange.
Resulting gains or losses are substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
offset against foreign exchange gains or losses on the related borrowings or, where the instrument is used to hedge a PENSIONS The expected cost of pensions in respect of the committed future transaction, are deferred until the transaction Groups dened benefit pension schemes is charged to the occurs or is extinguished.
profit and loss account over the working lifetimes of employees in the schemes.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread over the expected remaining working lifetimes of employees.
Note 27 in the financial statements provides further detail in respect of pension costs and commitments.
POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS The cost of providing other post-retirement benets, which comprise private healthcare, is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost over the service lives of relevant employees in accordance with the advice of qualied actuaries.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are spread over the expected remaining working lifetimes of relevant employees.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the financial year end exchange rates.
profits and losses of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange.
Gains and losses arising on the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences arising on matched foreign currency borrowings, are taken to reserves and disclosed in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging are recognised in the profit and loss account when the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised.
