General Information for Shareholders Attending the Annual General Meeting Shareholder information 1 The Notice of Meeting is being issued to all shareholders.
Enclosed with If you have any questions concerning your shareholding, please speak to the staff this notice, you will find an attendance card and a form of proxy.
at the shareholders enquiry desk.
2 If you are attending the meeting, you should bring the attendance card.
Disabled persons 3A shareholder is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, upon Special arrangements have been made to offer every assistance to people a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a shareholder.
If you wish with disabilities.
If you have a companion to assist you, they will be admitted to appoint a proxy, you must complete the enclosed form of proxy which to the meeting as a guest.
Guide dogs will also be permitted.
The auditorium must be deposited with the Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, has an induction loop system and headsets are available on request if you are Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6UU, not later than 11.00 a. m. on 7 July 2004. deaf or hard of hearing.
4 Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts, letters of appointment First aid for the Non-executive Directors, a statement of all transactions of Directors First aid facilities are available.
Ask any member of staff for assistance.
and of their families in the share capital of the Company in the year ended Emergency precautions 31 March 2004, a copy of the Register of Directors and their families An announcement will be made if there is a fire warning or other emergency.
interests in the share capital of the Company and a copy of the Companys Emergency exits are marked clearly around the auditorium.
In case of a medical Memorandum and Articles of Association will be available for inspection emergency, please contact a member of staff.
at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on each day except Saturday, Sunday and any public holidays from the date of the Refreshments Notice of Meeting until 9 July 2004 and also at the place of the AGM from Refreshments will be available between 9.30 a. m. and 10.50 a. m. 10.30 a. m. on the day of the meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
Important Copies of the same will also be available on the same days at the offices If you have any questions about the meeting, or if you need any assistance, please of the Companys solicitors, Biggart Baillie, Dalmore House, 310 St Vincent telephone the Annual General Meeting enquiry line on 020 7763 3156 from Street, Glasgow, G2 5BB.
Monday 7 June 2004 during normal working hours.
Introduction After his opening remarks, the Chairman will explain in detail the procedures for the conduct of the meeting, particularly for asking questions and voting on resolutions.
The resolutions which are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will then be put to the meeting.
How to ask questions At the meeting, shareholders will be given the opportunity to ask questions from Question Points which will be clearly indicated.
At each Question Point, a member of staff will be available to help you.
Please tell the member of staff the nature of your question and give your name and address.
You may be asked to wait until called upon to speak.
Please remember to state your name before asking your question.
How to vote You should raise above your head your voting card which you will receive when you register indicating that you are voting either for or against each resolution as it is put to the vote by the Chairman.
Only shareholders, or authorised representatives of corporate shareholders, may vote on a show of hands.
If you are attending as a proxy for a shareholder, you will receive an appropriate identification card at registration.
Time The doors will open at 9.30 a. m. and the meeting will start promptly at 11.00 a. m. Cameras tape recorders, etc.
No cameras, video recorders or tape recorders will be allowed into the meeting.
Mobile phones must be switched off during the meeting.
Registration To ensure your entrance to the meeting is dealt with promptly, please bring your attendance card with you and register at the registration desk inside the hotel.
Customer enquiries Company personnel will be available if you have any questions as a customer of the Company.
47 Shareholder and Contact Information Analysis of shareholders as at 31 March 2004 Share dealing THUS Groups shares may be bought or sold at competitive rates by post Range of holdings Number of shareholders Numbers of shares or telephone.
For further details, please contact Stocktrade on 0845 601 0995, quoting LOWC0078.
Tel: 020 7763 3156 0141 566 3051 5,001100,000 6,506 101,765,064 Corporate Communications, THUS Group plc, 1 2 Berkeley Square, 100,000 and above 481 1,127,048,898 99 Berkeley Street, Glasgow, G3 7HR Tel: 0141 566 3106 0141 566 3051 THUSs services Financial calendar Information about THUSs services can be found on the THUS website at www.
9 July 2004 Annual General Meeting November 2004 Interim Results for the six months ending 30 September 2004 April May 2005 Preliminary Results for the year ending 31 March 2005 Shareholder information Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Radisson SAS Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, Glasgow, G2 8DL on Friday 9 July 2004 at 11.00 a. m. Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 46. Dividend The Directors have not recommended the payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Listing Ordinary shares of THUS Group plc have been admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and are traded on The London Stock Exchange.
Share price details The share price is available from the THUS website at www.
net and in national newspapers.
Secretary and registered office David Macleod THUS Group plc 1 2 Berkeley Square 99 Berkeley Street Glasgow, G3 7HR Registered number SC 226738 Registrars All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should be directed to The Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Tel: 0870 609 4531, Fax: 01903 833 371.
48 Designed and produced by williams and phoa, printed in the UK.
E-Communications Care for the environment Each year, your company sends tens of thousands of paperbased Annual Reports but there is a better and more cost-effective way for you to receive this information which is also kinder on the environment.
THUS shareholders can choose to receive shareholder documentation from us electronically by registering with Shareview, a free webbased enquiry and portfolio management service offered by our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
This service enables you to: View your shareholding at any time View recent movements in your shareholding Obtain a regularly updated valuation on your shareholding Receive shareholder information electronically, including Annual Reports and Accounts and Notices of General Meetings Maintain your details on-line For further details please visit www.
net shareview THUS Group plc 1 2 Berkeley Square 99 Berkeley Street Glasgow G3 7HR www.
net THUS Summary Annual Report 2004 People Productivity Profit Contents 01 Corporate Highlights 02 THUS at a Glance 04 Chairmans Letter 05 Chief Executives Review 07 Operating and Financial Review 12 Board of Directors 13 Summary Directors Report 14 Summary Corporate Governance Report 15 Summary Directors Remuneration Report 17 Statement of the Independent Auditors to the Members of THUS Group plc 18 Summary Financial Statement 22 Notice of Annual General Meeting 24 General Information for Shareholders Attending the Annual General Meeting 25 Shareholder and Contact Information 29 May 20 August 22 September Broadband links for Scottish Borders THUS manages premium rate Scottish education broadband network minutes for Greenland Interactive UKERNA, in alliance with THUS, THUS is providing wireless Greenland Interactive, one enables the delivery of broadband broadband connections for of the UKs top five providers of content to Scotlands local residents and businesses in the interactive services offering voting, authorities with a new network Scottish Borders, in an innovative competitions, information and linking local authorities and project run by Scottish Borders entertainment lines, selects THUS to national education agencies.
Rural Broadband Ltd on behalf meet its telecommunications needs.
27 October London Grid for Learning Equinox, THUS and BT announce that more than half of Londons schools almost 1,800 sites and more than 800,000 pupils, plus libraries and council offices are connected to the London Grid for Learning broadband network, giving teachers access to on-line learning materials and pupils 3 November 22 December the power to extend their learning Broadband ADSL customers Tele2 outside the classroom.
reach 50,000 THUS wins significant contract The extensive range of to provide the network services Demon ADSL Internet access required to support Tele2s entry services attracts more than in the UK residential voice market.
12 January Virgin switch to THUS Virgin Group selects THUS as its preferred supplier of voice services linking 200 sites across the UK, belonging to 10 Virgin businesses.
28 January 5 April 31 March Free cash flow positive Advanced data solution for GWR On track for profit THUS turns sustainably free GWR, the UKs largest commercial THUS confirms the Group is on 1 cash flow positive in Q3, we radio station and home to Classic track to deliver positive operating believe the first UK alternative FM, goes live with a new advanced, profit in the second half of the telecommunications operator 34 site, MPLS data network from new financial year ending to have achieved this goal.
THUS, connecting both studio and 31 March 2005. office facilities across the UK.
1 Cash flow after returns on investments This makes GWR the first radio and servicing of finance and capital broadcaster in the UK to multicast expenditure and financial investment.
THUS Group plc provides telecommunication solutions to business customers throughout the UK under the THUS and Demon brands.
In an industry driven by reliability and innovation, THUS can draw upon experience established over more than a decade in the delivery of voice, data, Internet, contact centre and interactive response services.
Delivering both standard and bespoke solutions, THUS addresses customers existing business needs and works hand in hand with customers to develop new business opportunities.
The Companys record in the creation of innovative new services is complemented by an award-winning focus on quality and full certification under the ISO9001:2000 standard.
net 1 3 Turnover EBITDA Cash flow Corporate Highlights year ended 31 March year ended 31 March year ended 31 March millions millions millions Strong, double-digit 332.4 43.6 turnover growth 291.2 1 268.4 229.3 Continued EBITDA 213.9 27.1 expansion 11.3 3 Cash flow positive 2 3.1 for second half 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 of year -2.6 Sustained -36.7 progress towards -24.6 -106.8 operating profit -130.9 -191.3 1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation see Note 2 to the Summary Financial Statement on page 21.
2 Excludes 3.2 million exceptional restructuring costs.
3 Cash flow after returns on investments and servicing of finance, taxation and capital expenditure and financial investment.
1 Data Data technology has continued to grow and develop over the past year and, within the broad range of data services we offer, we have seen demand for both Ethernet and MPLS Multi-Protocol Label Switching services accelerate.
Customers are taking advantage of Data services have seen some of THUS is the first provider of our true end-to-end UK-wide Ethernet the fastest growth in our portfolio of National Ethernet services on a products.
Rapid take up of Ethernet capabilities and we now have more services, launched in the Autumn UK-wide basis to carry the Cisco than 2,000 Ethernet connections in of 2002, has seen more than Powered Network designation.
These private Ethernet connections 2,000 Ethernet circuits provided This status helps THUSs to corporate customers, including enable our customers, such as Imperial Baillie Gifford, TOTAL E&P UK and customers to understand that College London and Scottish Executive, UHI Millennium Institute, the higher its services are delivered over to link sites across the UK while operating education institution.
a reliable, high performance at the same high speed as their office architecture, designed with network.
Ethernet is becoming one of Quality of Service applications the most reliable and cost-effective ways in mind.
to deliver broadband applications and Duncan Mitchell, Vice President services, providing companies with cost and Managing Director, and efficiency savings.
UK and Ireland, Cisco Systems When we initially designed our MPLS platform, it was essential that it was MPLS IP VPN services securely built to allow us to offer a range link customers various locations of interoperable technologies in the headquarters, branch offices and future and, with the growth of Ethernet remote users using cost-effective Telecoms IP-based voice services and data technology, we are now able to realise connectivity.
Furthermore, it enables Traditional voice services continue this and combine these services.
customers to pick and mix the to be a key requirement for UK In 2003 we launched MPLS-based IP most appropriate technology and businesses and companies today are bandwidth at each site, resulting in VPN Internet Protocol Virtual Private a reduction in total network costs.
continually looking to their telecoms Network services using Ethernet as the suppliers to provide them with a flexible access technology.
This enables an range of voice services at the same organisation to securely link its various time as providing cost efficiencies.
locations headquarters, offices One such customer is Virgin Group and remote users, using cost-effective which has chosen THUS as its preferred IP-based voice services and data supplier for 200 sites across the UK.
MPLS enables packets We will be providing Virgin Group of information to be transmitted in a THUS at a Glance with a range of voice services and also particular order and within a specified THUS provides telecommunication providing data services such as leased timeframe, making it ideal for the solutions to business customers lines.
Our flexible approach and delivery of time sensitive data.
When throughout the UK under the specifically designed package combined with the simplicity and THUS and Demon brands.
of services is enabling Virgin Group affordability of Ethernet access, MPLS During the past 12 months, we to reduce its costs across the group IP VPNs are ideal for corporate voice, have increased momentum from while meeting the differing needs data and Internet communications.
new customer contracts, adding of each individual business.
to our scale and productivity We chose to work with UK-wide.
Our service innovation The introduction of Carrier Pre-Select THUS because its innovative is complemented by full CPS voice services last year led approach and expertise means certification for voice, data, to a change in the way that traditional our customers will get exactly Internet and contact centres voice services are delivered in the UK.
under the ISO9001:2000 CPS technology allows customers to Bill Butler, Managing Director, Tele2 standard, which is testament bypass the BT network and have their to the people, skills, application In THUS we found a likecalls carried by an alternative telecoms and commitment to quality minded company committed supplier without the need to dial within our business.
Tele2 was to providing excellent customer service and able to move one such company to take advantage quickly to get the job done.
of these changes and launch a new Jennie Beament, consumer voice service in the UK it chose THUS to provide the systems Group Procurement Director, Virgin Management Ltd and routing technology to carry Tele2s domestic voice traffic over our national fibre optic network.
2 Internet The broadband Digital Photo Through our Demon brand, THUS offers Kiosks, enabled by THUS, will the full range of Internet access services for the first time give the mass market the means to get the very including email, hosting, e-commerce and of course DSL Digital Subscriber Line most from their digital camera.
technology services which continue to Alistair Brown, Business Development dominate growth in the Internet sector.
Manager, Jessops There has been a rapid take up of ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line, also known as broadband, with nearly 100,000 customers now using Demon ADSL products in the UK and the Netherlands.
Broadband offers a high bandwidth, low cost alternative to dedicated leased lines or the more traditional dial-up services.
Customers are Contact centre services being more innovative in their deployment THUS provides a range of inbound of broadband and we recently provided and outbound contact centre services 90 ADSL broadband connections to and was recently awarded the EnergySure Jessops for the rollout of Digital Photo Accreditation for its telemarketing Kiosks in its stores.
These kiosks provide operations only the third contact centre Jessops customers with an easy-to-use employer in the UK to receive the award.
and reliable way to purchase professionally This means that all THUS employees Amserve Ltd has renewed our printed digital photographs.
selling utility services in our contact contract to provide telecommunications services for its Amstrad e-m@iler and centres are trained to adhere to best DSL is no longer just a high bandwidth e-m@ilerplus products until 2009. practice guidelines.
Internet connection and we have THUS first started working with developed and launched Private Access Amstrad in 2001 when it developed Interactive the platform for the e-m@iler and DSL to provide customers with an THUS Interactive services create and in April 2003, THUS enabled an alternative to traditional leased lines and important enhancement to the service, provide a range of telephone based allowing two-way SMS texting between ISDN access technologies for their virtual marketing promotions targeted the e-m@iler and mobile phones.
private or wide area networks, providing at the consumer market.
In December 2003, THUS worked the same levels of security at a significantly with Amstrad to introduce the CopyMail function, allowing users reduced cost.
In addition, we have worked to nominate an e-mail address which with Scottish Borders Rural Broadband Ltd then automatically receives copies to provide wireless broadband connections of all messages sent or received by the e-m@iler.
for businesses and residents in a number of rural towns in the Borders region.
Network and quality Behind all of the products and services EnergySure provides a Quality we offer sits our technologically advanced Assurance where sales centres national fibre optic network.
This was conform to a minimum standard designed and built with the foresight to of recruitment, training and enable todays technologies to be performance management.
seamlessly integrated whilst continuing ScottishPower is delighted that to offer superior quality of service to our THUSs contact centre, working customers.
We now believe that, after BT, hand-in-hand with ScottishPower, we offer the best UK-wide coverage and has not only met these standards connectivity from the far north of Scotland Lerwick but has surpassed many to the south-east of England, compared Stornoway|Kirkwall of the measures laid down Thurso to any other alternative carrier in the UK.
Inverness Keith Jones, National Compliance Fibre optic cable length now Aberdeen  Manager, ScottishPower approaches 8,000km including Glasgow|Falkirk 6,100km of trunk network Edinburgh More than100 points of presence Dumfries Newcastle|Sunderland 15 metropolitan area networks Durham Middlesbrough THUSs fibre optic network Preston  stretches from the South Chester|Sheffield Stoke-on-Trent of England to the Shetland Nottingham Birmingham Gloucester Islands and the Hebrides Bristol|Milton Keynes Swindon THUS has connectivity Reading London to 12 Telehouses in London, Southampton|Croydon Brighton Manchester and Edinburgh 3 Dear Shareholders: This has been another remarkable year of progress and achievement for your Company in a challenging market.
It has been a year where we have reinforced our position in the UK by extending our relationships with our customers, and by meeting our financial milestones.
The success of your Company in a challenging market environment is a huge tribute to all our staff, and we thank them greatly for their continued loyalty and commitment to growing your Company.
THUS is a Company that believes in integrity at all levels.
I believe we apply high corporate governance, accounting and ethical standards to our business.
We also take our social responsibilities and commitment to the communities where we operate extremely seriously.
This year your Company has continued to support the Womens Aid domestic abuse campaign.
More recently we have provided support to Emmaus, a charity to help homeless people in Glasgow to which we will continue to provide support on an ongoing basis.
We are now playing a small role in supporting Business in the Community with our staff engaging with pupils at Lochend Community High School in Easterhouse, Glasgow, and we have recently supported the Princes Trust.
None of these involve large charitable donations, but they do involve our employees giving time and commitment in the support of others.
After three years of service on your Board, I have decided to retire.
The Board has commenced a search for a suitable successor and plans an orderly handover of responsibility.
We expect this change to occur during the course of this year.
I have enjoyed being part of THUSs formative years as a public company, and I shall take an avid interest in its future development.
We expect the trends from last year to continue throughout this financial year.
Despite market conditions which continue to be challenging, the Board remains comfortable with market expectations for the year ahead, and of achieving our next key financial objective of operating profit in the second half of this financial year.
Roy Brown, Chairman Roy Brown, Chairman and Chairmans Letter William Allan, Chief Executive 4 THUS is a young business approaching its fifth anniversary as a listed company.
The strength and viability of our business becomes more evident with each passing year.
Uncertainty in our market from competitive intensity remains as tough as before, yet THUS continues to prevail.
THUSs strength in providing innovative new services and being responsive to our customers needs and expectations is our key differentiator.
We believe our service innovation record in the UK is second to none, and our responsiveness to our customers is a strong measure of the quality of our employees.
In 1999 we set out our strategy for the UK market.
This strategy involved a heavy up-front investment in network and service capability throughout the UK.
It is a tenyear journey, and in November of this year we will have reached the halfway point.
Our business model defined the financial metrics we needed to deliver to prove the 1 2 financial viability of our business: EBITDA positive: cash flow positive: operating profit: and, finally, a return on capital employed greater than our cost of capital.
We are on target at this halfway point: we became cash flow positive in Q3, a quarter earlier than we had originally anticipated and we remain convinced that our strategy is robust, and focused to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
Our headline revenue growth was 14% for the year, and 18% in the second half.
Our EBITDA increased by 61%: our operating loss reduced by 58%: and cash outflow before financing was reduced by 34.1 million, with a positive net inflow of 5.7 million in the second half.
We believe that these are impressive results and justify our confidence that we will achieve an attractive return on investment in the longer-term.
The consistency of our reputation for quality and service innovation, coupled to the scalability of our network and services, have now positioned us strongly in the managed services arena where lasting value is created.
In this segment and where our contracted revenue grew strongly, with the average contract increasing in value.
During the year we won significant managed services contracts with Capital Radio, Southern Water, GWR Group, and preferred supplier status with Glasgow City Council.
These contracts, coupled to our existing customer relationships and other new contracts such as Virgin Group, Tele2 and Amserve, accelerated growth in our key data and telecoms division to 24% over the course of the year.
Internet services enjoyed strong double-digit growth with revenue from our broadband DSL portfolio now exceeding revenue from our dial-up customer base.
This is a key milestone as we transition our business from old to new, with a new generation of IP-enabled services for the corporate market and small and medium sized businesses.
Our strength in winning new contracts, coupled to our focused and disciplined approach to our operating costs, has proven the flexibility and robustness Chief Executives of our business model.
Growth from incremental revenue now exceeds capital expenditure.
We believe THUS is the first alternative carrier to have achieved this, Review and become sustainably free cash flow positive.
These are two critical measures to prove the viability of the alternative carrier business model to achieve the longerterm goal of a return on capital employed greater than our cost of capital.
This year our achievements demonstrate that we are well on track towards that objective.
Our balance sheet is strong: our quality of service remains class leading: our service innovation record is consistently impressive: and our list of blue chip customers continues to grow longer each year as our credibility and reputation wins wider respect.
Our objective is to become the pre-eminent alternative to BT in the UK business services market: we remain firmly focused on achieving that goal.
William Allan, Chief Executive 1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
2 Cash flow after returns on investments and servicing of finance and capital expenditure and financial investment.
5 People Our commitment to teamwork enables us to work passionately as one team, with one vision and one voice, keeping us ahead of the competition.
Productivity Day in, day out, we constantly strive to increase our effectiveness by utilising all of our resources, people, technology and knowledge to generate shareholder value.
Profit Our focus on generating value and quality services for our customers leads to profitable growth for our Company.
This enables us to deliver on our promises and consistently achieve strong financial performance.
6 THUSs business, objectives key financial measures turnover, Cash flow was also positive in the and strategy operating profit and cash flow.
We believe THUS aims to be the leading alternative that we are the first infrastructure based With the delivery this year of positive provider of telecommunication and altnet in the UK to have achieved this free cash flow, it is now time to replace Internet services for business customers on a sustainable basis, realising a key EBITDA, a primary measure which in the UK.
validation point of our business model.
was strongly linked to our access to We believe we can deliver this aim on financing, with our next key milestone EBITDA margin expanded from the back of the large scale investment of operating profit.
9% to 13% and capital expenditure we have made in previous years.
fell from 15% to 12% of turnover, We have set out a series of longer-term We built and developed our own with approximately 55% of capital targets based on asset utilisation advanced service capability, including expenditure now driven by growth and profit margin to ensure we achieve 8,000km in total of network linking in turnover.
our goal of delivering a return to the major industrial and commercial shareholders above our weighted For an alternative carrier to sustain centres throughout the UK.
This allows average cost of capital.
To achieve this, profitable growth, we believe the ratio us to control the quality of our services, we believe that our Company will have of increase in turnover to capital to innovate more quickly with new and to approximately double its turnover expenditure must exceed 1:1 in order differentiated services, and to protect by the end of the decade 2009.
This to deliver the scale required to provide margins against competitive pressures.
will provide additional scale to expand a proper return on invested capital.
As more of our major corporate operating margins, leveraging our During the year, we achieved this customers become directly connected, low operating cost base and existing we believe we are the first alternative we become increasingly efficient investments.
Given our focus on carrier to do so.
This represents another by carrying a greater proportion customers, our strengths in a range important validation point for our of their traffic over our own network, of services and consistent quality, business model.
minimising delivery costs and reducing we believe that this is a realistic and payments to other operators.
We have continued to grow business achievable target which, representing with existing customers and to win new This year has been another successful less than 5% market share of the UK customers.
Millions of consumers in the year in delivering our targets, set over telecommunication market, leaves plenty UK now use our services daily, without a decade, as our Company grows to of potential for longer-term growth.
knowing about THUSs key role.
This maturity from its flotation on The London Overview of the year is illustrated by the large and diverse Stock Exchange in November 1999.
THUS made good progress against customer bases of, for example: The heavy investment made between its objectives during the year.
We grew Sky Active through the red button, 1999 and 2001, putting our UK-wide turnover by 14%, representing, we and SkyTalk: capability into place, depressed our believe, more than double the market Amstrad, via the Amstrad headline profit and cash flow metrics.
growth rate, leading to reduced e-m@iler: and Since then, THUS has delivered operating losses of 21.2 million from Tele2, through their residential sustainable positive EBITDA and, 50.8 million last year.
This puts us voice resale services.
1 now, positive, sustainable free cash flow on track to go operating profit positive 1 with operating and pre-tax losses also in the second half of the financial year Cash flow after returns on investments and servicing of finance and capital expenditure narrowing significantly.
Our continued ending 31 March 2005. and financial investment.
progression will be tracked by three John Maguire, Operating and Chief Financial Officer Financial Review 7 This approach of supporting the growth services is a reflection of our scale for inclusion in facilities management of our corporate customers, but not and the class-leading quality of our are typically of longer than average having to directly support or market facilities and services.
duration and involve a range of services to large consumer bases, remains one requiring a dedicated THUS team CPS will remain an important source of four key legs in the delivery of our for their implementation.
Our recent of growth in the next year.
It complements our contract win of Southern Water and the short-term, it may dilute our gross direct sales to UK-centric corporates our award of preferred bidder status margin, the low level of incremental and SMEs, as well as our active with Glasgow City Council illustrate operating and capital costs required reseller channel.
our scale and capability in this area.
to support this scalable service makes For example, the Glasgow City Council Segmental analysis of turnover it a strong contributor to operating contract will run for a minimum Data and telecoms, including facilities profit progression.
of six years with an estimated value management In data services, wide area Ethernet of 42 million.
Turnover in these services grew services grew strongly.
With over by 24% to 198.6 million, and was Internet 2,000 circuits now provisioned, THUS the main engine of growth for THUS.
Internet turnover grew by 10% to 99.1 has a strong first-mover advantage million.
During the year, the rapid The expansion of voice volumes was in a technology that we believe has market growth in the development particularly robust, due to Carrier compelling advantages to corporate of broadband Internet access via Pre-Select Services CPS which improve users of more traditional telecoms data Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line the capture of indirectly connected services.
New users in the year include ADSL services continued.
This strong customer calls by automatically routing Imperial College London, the Scottish growth was partly masked by continued this traffic over THUSs network.
Executive and TOTAL E&P UK, part churn in our narrowband dial-up base Changes by the regulator have enabled of the TOTAL Global Energy Company.
but we have migration plans in place THUS to move voice services from BT and expect the churn to greatly reduce We also continue to make advances without requiring the customer to use with MPLS data services, including the next year.
special equipment or the inconvenience provision of a managed network for of access codes.
We are also able to UK broadband customers more GWR Group, enabling it to become provision these services more effectively than doubled year on year to 58,000, the first radio broadcaster in the UK than before.
While CPS was introduced attracted by our wide and expanding to multicast live commercial audio in its current form in 2002, this year range of product options, competitive broadcasts over MPLS.
This builds has seen more widespread adoption pricing and targeted marketing on THUSs success with Capital Radio of the service.
promotions to business customers and our expansion into data services under the Demon brand.
CPS has also been used to support for main national radio operators the retail telephony products of other outside the BBC.
For ADSL services we typically operators, including Tele2s launch into wholesale from BT but add enhanced Facilities management represents an the UK in the second half of the year.
features and functionality for our expanded area this year.
Previously Tele2 is Europes largest supplier of customers.
ADSL is gross margin this has largely represented trading indirect voice telephony to consumers, dilutive, but operating profit expansive with our former parent company, and its choice of THUS to carry its UK due to low incremental operating and ScottishPower.
Contracts qualifying Operating and Financial Review 8 capital costs.
We continue to review Interactive CPS and broadband DSL may dilute options to expand the margin profile of Turnover for the Interactive division, our gross margin, the low level of this growing customer base, including providing premium rate services and incremental operating and capital local loop unbundling, once the competition formats, declined by 18% costs required to support these scalable economic case justifies this investment.
to 13.0 million, reflecting a steep services make them strong contributors decline in turnover in the second half to operating profit progression in line Our UK broadband success was of the year, resulting from a marked with our business model.
We view replicated in Demon Netherlands, which increase in competition.
Although this as an opportunity for growth grew its ADSL customer base five-fold turnover has fallen, this division and as part of the service transition to 38,000, reflecting a higher consumer contributes both operating profit that is currently taking place in the content.
While THUS continues to focus and positive cash flow for the Group.
on the UK, the Netherlands operation, at 4% of turnover, remains a growing Margin expansion and progress to profit S, D&A selling, distribution and and successful core adjunct With the achievement of positive cash administration costs, excluding to existing activities.
flow in the second half of the year, our depreciation and amortisation but focus with respect to margin is now on including other operating income, New innovations to our broadband operating profit.
Operating losses more fell from 28% to 22% of turnover and by product portfolio were implemented, than halved to 21.2 million and we 10% in absolute terms to 73.1 million.
including a range of high-speed, costare on a solid trajectory to achieve The year saw the benefits of the full effective, self-install options and the operating profit in the second half of the annual impact of actions taken in the addition of private access DSL that next financial year ending 31 March prior period, as well as rationalisation allows customers to use broadband as a 2005.
The contributors to operating of the back office billing platforms.
secure connection into private networks.
profit expansion are considered below.
Combining turnover growth and cost Contact centre services Gross profit, excluding depreciation efficiencies, EBITDA grew strongly to Contact centre turnover for the full year and amortisation, showed good 43.6 million compared with 27.1 fell to 21.7 million from 24.6 million.
absolute growth, up 8% to 116.7 million in the year ended 31 March Although turnover in the first half fell 2 million.
Excluding the Contact Centre 2003 and 3.1 million in the year below that in the previous year and Interactive divisions, underlying ended 31 March 2002. following the loss of the Microsoft gross profit increased 13%, broadly account, the division recovered ground Depreciation and amortisation for the in line with turnover growth.
in the second half, as indicated at the year at 64.8 million was 13.1 million Interim results, principally through the Gross margins, excluding depreciation lower than the previous years charge.
expansion of existing accounts and the and amortisation, fell 2% to 35%, This mainly reflected lower impairment successful renewal of our major contract compared with 37% last year, and charges of 8.6 million year on year.
Our focus down slightly to 21% after these items.
There was an impairment of 4.8 remains on the top end of the market, Given our change in product mix with million in the year, mainly reflecting providing support for customers who strong growth in CPS and broadband accelerated depreciation on the have complex needs and whose DSL, we do not expect any progression 300km out of 6,100km of trunk operations must be based in the UK.
in gross margin during this financial network which was provisioned year.
Whilst, in the short-term, on overhead cable.
1 Fixed asset turnover Operating profit margin EBITDA margin Capital investment turnover year ended 31 March year ended 31 March year ended 31 March year ended 31 March times % % % 0.80 13 29 0.67 0.57 9 15 19% 4% 3% 12 improvement improvement improvement 2 1 02 03 04 02 03 04 02 03 04 02 03 04 11% -6 improvement -17 1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
9 Statutory gross profit increased 8% other timing differences of 37.8 million The loan continues to be governed to 69.5 million after depreciation giving a total deferred tax asset not by standard covenants.
included within cost of sales, with recognised of 45.0 million.
With a cash balance of 26.4 million, a margin of 21%, and the operating As disclosed in our Open Offer a positive cash flow operating business loss reduced from 50.8 million document to shareholders during our and stable financing, THUS has to 21.2 million.
demerger process from ScottishPower the capacity and financial resilience Net interest fell from 6.9 million in 2002, if our Company trades during to meet the requirements of large new to 5.3 million.
the period from 19 March 2002 to business opportunities or unforeseen 30 September 2005 on a material and external economic shocks to the sector The loss before tax showed significant non-commercial basis with members or national economy.
improvement, down 57% from 58.8 or former members of the ScottishPower million last year to 25.0 million.
Statement of recognised gains Group, our former parent company, and losses Earnings per share and dividends a tax liability of up to 570 million may The main movement in prior years, The basic loss per ordinary share be triggered arising from the original apart from trade losses, has related reduced by 57% from 4.44p per share flotation of THUS in 1999.
This payment to gains from the sale of capacity would fall on THUS under Section 179 to 1.90p.
Given our Companys stage under IRU Indefeasible Rights of development and the accumulated of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains of Use agreements.
The market for losses from the network deployment, Act 1992.
Any trigger caused by events IRUs has contracted since 2002, the Board is not yet able to recommend prior to 19 March 2002 is covered and consequently there continues by an existing indemnity with a dividend.
to be limited activity in this area.
A strong control regime Capital investment is in place to manage this remote risk.
THUSs differentiating factors Capital investment continued to be and operating environment tightly managed and was 41.1 million Cash flows THUS is firmly focused on the UK compared with 44.9 million last year, Net cash flow from continuing market without the distraction of major falling to 12% of turnover from operating activities was positive at international investments or foreign 37.4 million compared with 26.1 15%.
Approximately 55% of capital regulatory regimes and operating expenditure was tied to turnover growth million last year.
We have completed our either through customer connections, was EBITDA of 43.6 million.
Cash UK-wide deployment of capability and 1 product development or platform flow before financing costs was positive are consequently deriving significant at 0.8 million for the first time in our capacity upgrades.
Our quality and growth capital expenditure includes Companys history, compared with service innovation are class-leading billing platform replacements and other an outflow in the prior year of 28.3 and well respected.
We are financially back office functions.
In addition, cash flow after strong.
We believe we are also the returns on investments and servicing No individual project accounted only alternative carrier to have a strong of finance and capital expenditure for more than 10% of the total spend, ISP inside with the Demon brand, and financial investment was positive merging the best of Internet and reflecting the diverse and customerin the second half of the financial year linked nature of our investment telecommunication cultures.
Capitalised We believe these factors position labour and overhead costs required At the year end, net debt stood at 35.4 us well to withstand the continued million compared with 32.7 million to deliver this programme amounted sector turmoil and enhance our ability to 8.7 million in the year.
last year and gearing was 16%.
Our to address concerns relating to growth drawdowns under our 60.0 million and competitive intensity.
Tax loan facility stood at 57.0 million, A small tax charge of 0.2 million which converted to an amortising term Our model implies that we need to arises from trading activities in the loan on 1 April 2004.
Repayments approximately double in size to develop Netherlands.
UK trading losses give rise commence on 31 March 2005 and the scale to deliver an attractive return to a deferred tax asset of 7.2 million are complete on 31 March 2008, on capital.
With a growing business with accelerated capital allowances and with a balloon repayment profile.
telecoms market in the UK which we 10 believe to be in excess of 10 billion our small Netherlands operation and account for certain aspects of revenue per annum, this is a sufficiently sized limited supplier payments in US Dollars recognition.
Consequently, as THUS opportunity for us to grow into.
Hedging in the form of looks at its key measures of turnover, THUS has hit critical mass in key areas, a cap is in place to minimise interest operating profit and cash flow, detailed allowing us to benefit from architecture rate exposure on our loan facility, guidance on possible changes cannot decisions that support a full range where drawdowns are charged be made at this point.
The key primary of activities and enable a doubling at LIBOR plus 3.5%.
measure of cash flow is unaffected of network capacity for just 5% of the by the adoption of IFRS.
Tight control exists over treasury original cost.
activities, and any non-standard Under UK GAAP, the Urgent Issues There is no doubt that the market instruments require approval from Task Force issued UITF 38 Accounting remains extremely competitive, with the Chief Financial Officer or Board.
This does not come a large number and variety of operators THUS has no off balance sheet into effect until June 2004 but, while still active in the marketplace.
However, financing or special purpose vehicles, early adoption is recommended, due with a strong service development and maintains a simple and transparent to the unique nature of events during capability, we are able to develop and corporate structure.
the telecoms bubble when most of launch higher value services in market these shares in THUS were purchased, Accounting Policies segments in which few competitors early adoption is not appropriate The major event of the year relates operate.
This also allows us to for THUS.
to the introduction of International differentiate at the commodity end Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Guidance notes were also issued of services, where the capability from 31 December 2005 year ends on Financial Reporting Standards to offer a migration path to higher onwards, mandated by the European Reporting the Substance of value products is important.
This Union for all listed companies within Transactions FRS 5 relating to gives customers such as Amserve the the EU.
At the moment, and for the year revenue recognition, but these have not confidence to renew and grow services ending 31 March 2005, THUS reports changed the interpretation of THUSs on major long-term contracts in their under UK GAAP.
accounting policies in these areas.
THUS intends to publish its first Outlook We also have to grow our margins.
IFRS results at the half year ending The strategy we outlined at the time Leveraging increasing revenues 30 September 2005.
This requires of our listing has enabled us to deliver on our scalable network and operating comparatives for the prior year our business model to date, scaling platforms provides a powerful driver including, therefore, a 31 March 2004 and flexing our business according to for our new focus on operating profit.
Assuming Our Companys activities are affected during the year we have been reviewing the macro environment remains broadly by the rulings and actions of Ofcom, our position with staff training and a unchanged, we remain comfortable the industrys regulator.
This year diagnostic review to highlight key points with our short-term goal of becoming Ofcom has taken on the role of Oftel of difference between IFRS and UK operating profit positive in the second and initiated a review of the market.
We are currently quantifying half of the new financial year and our European regulation also plays these areas, and in March 2004 the longer-term goal of at least returning an important role in promoting Audit Committee met to consider our our cost of capital.
and defining the framework under IFRS accounting policies.
1 Representing cash outflow before financing which Ofcom operates and this is likely of 2.6 million 2003: 36.7 million and returns New and revised versions of IFRS to increase.
THUS continues to raise on investments and servicing of finance of 3.4 have been issued up to March 2004 million 2003: 8.4 million.
specific areas of concern with Ofcom.
In addition, Policy issues a convergence project for revenue Treasury recognition between US GAAP and THUSs treasury policy aims mainly IFRS is under way and due to report in to manage financial risks arising from 2005.
This has the potential to change limited foreign currency exposure from the way all European companies 11 Board of Directors Non-executive Directors Executive Directors Roy Brown 57 was appointed as a Non-executive William Allan 50 is Chief Executive of THUS.
He joined Director of THUS in January 2001 and became Chairman a predecessor company in December 1998 as Chief on 10 July 2002.
Until May 2001, Mr Brown was a main Operating Officer and was appointed Managing Director Board Director of Unilever and President of Unilevers in February 1999.
Mr Allan has more than 25 years European Foods and Beverages division.
In addition, experience in the telecommunications industry.
In 1997, he has held the role of Regional Director of Unilevers Africa, Mr Allan was appointed Chief Executive of Cable & Wireless Middle East, Central and Eastern Europe division.
He was a Director on the boards will become Non-executive Chairman of GKN plc on 21 of Telecommunications of Jamaica, Entel Panama, the May 2004, having been a Non-executive Director, and Barbados Telephone Company and the Barbados External is also a Non-executive Director of Brambles Industries plc, Telecommunications Company.
Between 1995 and 1997, BUPA, HMV Group plc and Lloyds Franchise Board.
Mr Allan was Regional Director for Cable & Wireless North East Asia Region, President and Representative Director of Ian Chippendale 55 was appointed as a Non-executive Cable & Wireless Japan, and Chairman of Cable & Wireless Director of THUS in October 1999.
Mr Chippendale Communications Services Limited Japan.
He was also a is Executive Chairman of RBS Insurance, having previously Director on the boards of International Digital Communications been Chief Executive of Direct Line Group Limited, and has IDC Japan, Sakhalin Electrosvyaz, Sakhalin Telecom, considerable experience in the insurance and financial Sakhalin Telecom Mobile and Nakhodka Telecom.
Prior to joining Direct Line in 1996, Mr Chippendale was Chief Executive of Privilege Insurance Philip Male 37 is Chief Operating Officer.
He joined from 1994 and before that he was a Director of Provident a predecessor company originally as Technical Director Financial plc.
of Demon Internet Limited in October 1997.
Mr Male has previous experience as Technical Director of Computer Michael fide Kare-Silver 47 joined the Board of THUS as Newspaper Services and PA Data Design, part of the Press a Non-executive Director in September 2000.
He is currently Association Group, and has held the positions of Head Managing Director of Modem Media Europe and before of Research and Development and, prior to joining Demon, that was Head of eBusiness Services at PA Consulting Director of Strategic Research with the Press Association Group.
Prior to that he was Group e-commerce Director Group.
With advanced knowledge of data networking at Great Universal Stores Plc GUS.
Prior to joining GUS, technologies, programming languages and operating Mr fide Kare-Silver was Senior Partner of the strategy systems, Mr Male has been involved in the development consulting firm, the Kalchas Group which was acquired of Internet services in the UK since 1990. by Computer Sciences Corp. in September 1997.
Mr fide Kare-Silver is Visiting Professor at Middlesex John Maguire 38 a Chartered Accountant, joined THUS University Business School of Computing Sciences.
as Chief Financial Officer in December 2000.
Prior to joining THUS, Mr Maguire was Vice President Finance Japan and Jo Connell 56 joined the Board of THUS as a Non-executive Asia for Cable & Wireless Global.
This included leading the Director in January 2001.
Mrs Connell was until March 2003 finance team in Cable & Wireless IDC, Japans second largest Managing Director of Xansa plc.
She joined Xansa in 1977 international carrier.
Mr Maguire has extensive financial after five years at CMG Limited and an early career with and international telecommunications experience, having Mars Group.
She became a member of the Xansa board held a number of other key financial positions within in 1991 and was subsequently appointed Chief Operating the Cable & Wireless group since 1991, including that Officer in July 1997 prior to being appointed Group of Regional Finance Director of Cable & Wireless Asia Managing Director in November 1999.
Mrs Connell Pacific, based in Singapore.
is also a Non-executive Director of London Bridge Software Holdings plc and Synstar plc, and is a governor of the Audit Committee University of Hertfordshire.
Ian Chippendale, Chairman Jo Connell Margaret Ford 46 was appointed as a Non-executive Michael fide Kare-Silver Director of THUS in November 2002.
She is the Chairman of English Partnerships, founder and Deputy Chairman of Nomination Committee Good Practice Ltd and a Non-executive Director of Serco plc.
Roy Brown, Chairman From 1993 to 2002 she was Managing Director and then William Allan Chairman of Eglinton Management Centre.
From 1997 to Ian Chippendale 2001 she was Chairman of Lothian Health Board and from Remuneration Committee 2000 to December 2003 she was a Non-executive Director Michael fide Kare-Silver, Chairman of Ofgem.
She is an expert in change management and Ian Chippendale leadership issues.
Jo Connell Margaret Ford Senior Independent Non-executive Director Ian Chippendale 12 Recruitment activity has remained steady and we are seeing Summary Directors Report a greater interest externally from experienced candidates from within our market sector keen to join us.
Activities THUS is a provider of voice, data, Internet and contact centre Our employee policies and processes are continually reviewed services to corporate and small and medium sized enterprise to ensure our commitment to providing equal opportunities markets, primarily in the UK.
A review of the business and to all our staff is maintained within all areas of the business its future development is contained in the Chairmans Letter and to support our position that performance and ability and Chief Executives Review on pages 4 and 5 and in the remain the basis for progression within the business.
Operating and Financial Review on pages 7 to 11.
A follow-up employee survey was conducted in September Results and dividend 2003 and, whilst it highlighted areas of focus for future The loss transferred to reserves for the year amounted improvement, we also found that the majority of questions to 25.2 million 2003: 59.0 million, details of which answered demonstrated improvements during the year.
are set out in the Summary Group Profit and Loss Account Plans are in hand to ensure this key piece of feedback on page 18. is used to further enhance our employee proposition for the coming years.
The Company has not declared or paid a dividend on its share capital 2003: Nil.
The Company intends to retain Our policy in respect of the employment of disabled future earnings to expand the growth and development persons is the same as that relating to all other employees of its business.
Accordingly, it does not anticipate paying in matters of training, career development and promotion.
dividends in the foreseeable future.
In addition, given the Where employees become disabled during the period Companys stage of development and the accumulated of their employment, we will endeavour to continue losses built up during the network deployment, the Company to provide employment.
is not yet able to pay a dividend.
Environment Board of Directors Our environmental policy principles remain unchanged The names and details of the Directors of the Company are and continue to meet the criteria set by FTSE4Good.
We believe communications technology can help reduce adverse environmental impact.
We believe that proper fiscal In accordance with the Articles of Association, William Allan, management, operational management and risk management Michael fide Kare-Silver and Jo Connell are retiring from are all facets of good corporate governance.
We believe office at the Annual General Meeting.
These Directors, being good environmental management is a key part of this eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
responsibility and that it adds value for all our stakeholders.
Directors interests Our environmental management system is being Details of the Directors service contracts, letters of integrated with the health and safety management system.
appointment and remuneration are set out in the Summary This, together with environmental management training Directors Remuneration Report on pages 15 to 17. in the risk management team, will aid efficient control Other than as disclosed therein, none of the Directors of these complementary risk areas.
had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company and its subsidiaries during or at the end We recognise our responsibility to properly manage of the financial year.
redundant and obsolete equipment, hence we maintain our endeavours to have electronic and electrical Employees equipment re-used or recycled in preference to disposal.
Our employees have yet again responded well to the challenges we set ourselves for the year and, in the main, We are committed to reducing environmental impacts our objectives were met.
and continue to work with our specialist energy management advisors to reduce waste and cut costs.
Our ability to meet the challenges in the year ahead will Our preference is to procure energy from renewable be dependent on all of us maintaining the same levels sources and energy efficient equipment, where available of commitment and performance, and the need to continue and financially viable.
to attract, develop and retain the very best talent will again be critical.
THUS recently secured energy from renewable supplies that provides electricity to 33% of our site portfolio.
The Company continues to operate within very tight cost controls but has ensured that money spent on development We have installed intelligent meters at a number of activities has been focused on the areas of improving selected sites, to allow our specialist advisors to analyse leadership and personal development and we have yet again usage patterns.
The programme of installation continues, seen an increased usage of the COOL e-learning system.
as this will help us identify and rectify consumption inefficiencies and set targets for the coming years.
We have focused the business on improving the key measures of staff turnover and sickness.
Both of these measures have THUS is encouraging its shareholders to receive seen significant improvement over the year and are now documentation electronically via the Web.
Please see considered to be extremely low for our market sector and the back of the Summary Report.
13 Summary Directors Report continued Summary Corporate Governance Report Health and Safety We remain convinced that moral and economic drivers are Internal control compatible in occupational risk management.
We recognise The Board has adopted an approach which is in line that efficient management systems are safe management with the guidance issued by The London Stock Exchange systems because the human and economic costs of accidents in establishing the Groups internal control procedures are greater than effective risk control costs.
The revised Combined Code requires that the effectiveness of the system of internal control, Our health and safety management system, modelled on including financial, operational, compliance controls the principles set out in the Health and Safety Executives and risk management, is reviewed at least annually Successful Health and Safety Management, continues by the Directors.
Guidance to the Directors in respect to evolve.
of this requirement is also provided by the Turnbull Report We have implemented an initiative called Serious About Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Safety, which provides access to information and helps Combined Code, published in September 1999. build a positive safety culture.
High quality document The Directors of THUS Group plc have overall responsibility folders containing information, risk assessment forms for the system of internal control and for reviewing the and guidance have been distributed to employees, effectiveness of the system.
The system of internal control enabling them to conduct personal risk assessments.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Operational documentation can be included in the to achieve business objectives.
Internal control, therefore, can system, emphasising the ethos of safety as an integral only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against part of work.
In light of new legislation, we published our Occupational The purpose, authority and responsibility of the Groups Driving Safety Code of Practice.
Our position is clear: Internal Audit function is contained within a formal charter THUS employees are not required to use a mobile phone which is approved by the Board.
The function supports whilst driving and the use of hand held devices whilst the Directors in assessing key internal controls through driving is prohibited.
We continue to revise our policy and process The risk management framework adopted by the Group documentation as required, for example, the procedure is designed to ensure that the key controls are, and have for assessing and controlling occupational risks to our been, embedded into business processes.
The risk employees who are mothers, or expectant mothers, management and internal control systems continue to be and their infants.
developed across the Group and have enabled the Directors Once again our occupational injury rates remain very low to be satisfied that the Group was fully compliant with the when compared to industry sector standards, which is a Combined Code provisions on internal control in the course tribute to our employees professionalism.
THUS employees of the financial year ended 31 March 2004. reported seven minor injuries and two lost time injuries over the 2003 calendar year.
With the approximate average number of employees across the year this gives a frequency rate of 0.28.
THUS has not been the subject of any enforcement action.
This record is reflected in the strong relationships we have built with our insurers.
14 The Company has achieved sustainable positive EBITDA, Summary Directors has grown turnover by more than double the market growth Remuneration Report rate and has achieved a cash flow positive position during the second half of the year.
In the Committees view, this During the year the Committee has continued its decision reflects superior performance in comparison with the making on the basis of a number of underlying principles telecommunications sector and demonstrates significant which can be summarised as follows: progress in what remain challenging market conditions.
Executive Directors and other senior executives should The Committee considers the bonus payments determined be paid market-competitive levels of remuneration and for the year fairly and reasonably reward the standard of achievement.
The Committee is keen to ensure that the receive significant incentives for performance which significantly exceeds challenging and objective targets: Executive Directors further increase their longer-term shareholdings in the Company and has therefore decided In setting base salary levels, the Committee has regard to that half of the annual bonus earned should be compulsorily a range of benchmark data in particular, remuneration deferred into shares and transferred to Executive Directors levels in other similar FTSE Mid-250 companies and after three years, provided they remain with the Company.
companies in the telecommunications industry of similar No bonus was paid for the previous financial year.
The aim is to set salaries which are generally around the mid-market level.
Salaries will be The bonus plan operates for 2004 05 against the same above mid-market where individual performance and financial measures but the weighting applied to cash flow skills justify it: has been increased from 25% to 50% and that for EBITDA reduced from 50% to 25%.
The weighting for turnover The Committee remains strongly committed to ensuring remains at 25%.
The Committee takes the view that an there is an appropriate balance between fixed and increased focus on cash flow will further encourage prudent performance pay with performance pay comprising capital management and better support the Companys both bonuses and share incentives.
It also seeks business objectives for the year.
to ensure alignment with shareholders interests: Long-term incentives The Committees primary goal is to ensure that executive Share options remuneration continues to be sufficiently attractive to The Company operates an executive share option scheme retain Executive Directors in an increasingly competitive the THUS Group plc Discretionary Share Option Scheme, market and to motivate them to deliver results and to under which market value options can be granted, at the enhance shareholder value.
discretion of the Committee, to selected Executive Directors and employees.
The performance criterion that currently In accordance with these principles and best practice, the Committee has started a review of total remuneration and applies to the vesting of options is relative Total Shareholder has made a number of changes.
The review will continue into Return TSR measured against the FTSE Telecommunications sector and the FTSE Mid-250 excluding telecommunications the next financial year and will cover share-based long-term companies.
Two-thirds of the options vest depending on the incentives and performance measures.
Pension policy will also be considered further in the light of the forthcoming tax Companys TSR compared against the telecommunications reforms.
The Committee will engage major shareholders in index and one-third, depending on the Companys TSR compared against the FTSE Mid-250.
Half the options the process.
become exercisable when the Companys TSR is at the The remuneration package median.
All the options are exercisable when the Companys Basic salary TSR is at the upper quartile.
The Committee must also satisfy The Committee sets the basic salary for each Executive itself that the underlying financial performance of the Director by reference to individual performance and Company has improved during the vesting period.
Relative to external market information prepared by its advisors.
TSR performance is calculated by Towers Perrin using data Salaries effective from 1 April 2004 are: William Allan supplied by Datastream to provide independent verification 350,000: John Maguire 250,000: Philip Male 250,000. and is reported to the Committee.
The basic salaries of the Executive Directors were last increased on 1 July 2002.
No share options were granted in the financial year ended 31March 2004.
Options were last granted Annual bonus to Executive Directors in the financial year ended 31 March Executive Directors and senior executives participate in the 2002.
The terms of the grant provided for the retesting of the Companys annual bonus plan.
The annual bonus plan for performance condition from a fixed point on two occasions.
Executive Directors is based solely on corporate and business The market value of grants made in the next financial year performance and provides a maximum total payment will not exceed one times salary.
The performance test of up to 100% of salary in respect of the Chief Executive described above will apply but, for options granted thereafter, and up to 85% of salary for other Executive Directors, with there will be no opportunity to retest if the performance performance measured against EBITDA earnings before condition is not met three years from the date of grant.
interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, turnover and cash flow targets set at the outset of the financial year.
Relative Total Shareholder Return was regarded as the most appropriate measure to determine the vesting of share options when the plan was approved.
It was supported 15 by our shareholders as a measure which aligned the interests the Committees underlying principles.
Executive Directors of executives with those of shareholders by rewarding will only be rewarded if shareholders have gained.
However, performance relative to the Companys sectoral peers.
the remuneration review will continue to look carefully at the design of the Companys long-term incentives, at the vehicles Performance shares used, and at the performance criteria and standards.
The Company also operates the THUS Group Performance Share Plan under which an award of shares can be granted Pension and other benefits at the discretion of the Committee to selected Executive Pension benefits are provided, subject to Inland Revenue Directors and employees.
Grants made during a year will limits, under the THUS Group plc Pension Scheme.
The only become exercisable after three years if demanding arrangements for Executive Directors are the same as for all performance targets set by the Committee are met.
The scheme is a contributory defined-benefit performance share awards were granted in the financial scheme that provides 1 60th of final pensionable salary year ended 31 March 2004.
Performance shares were last for each year of pensionable service.
Normal retirement granted to Executive Directors in the financial year ended age under the scheme is 60 and final pensionable salary 31 March 2003.
Share awards are subject to a maximum is defined as the highest pensionable salary averaged over of 100% of basic salary.
any 12-month period in the last five years of membership, or the highest three-year average in the last 10 years if higher.
Two performance criteria currently apply to the vesting Pensionable salary is defined as basic salary only.
For half of an award of performance shares to vest, THUSs TSR Total Shareholder As all the Executive Directors are affected by the earnings cap, Return compared to that of the constituents of the FTSE this means that their level of pension provision is significantly All-Share Telecoms Sector as at the date of grant is measured below market practice.
The companies against which THUS over a three-year period.
No shares vest where the Companys benchmarks typically provide unapproved benefits on earnings TSR is below the median.
The minimum proportion of shares above the cap.
The Committee has therefore decided to that vest at the median is 30%.
All the shares vest when make adjustments to the pension arrangements for Executive the Companys TSR is at the upper decile.
The Committee will determine its approach in the is measured over three years with no retesting opportunities.
light of the Companys response to the pensions tax reforms The Committee must also be satisfied at the time the for all employees but the value of the additional provision performance condition is met that this is consistent with is expected to be about 18% of base salary in the case of the the achievement of commensurate underlying financial Chief Executive and 12% of base salary for the Chief Financial performance of the Company.
Officer and the Chief Operating Officer.
For the remaining half of the performance share award to Executive Directors are eligible for a range of benefits.
vest, normalised Earnings Per Share EPS performance of the These include the provision of a company car or car Company is measured over a three-year period.
The EPS test allowance, fuel, private medical, life, permanent health is set with reference to broker forecasts covering the relevant and critical illness insurances.
The extent to which EPS targets are Service contracts satisfied after three years will be confirmed by the Committee.
Reflecting current market practice, the Executive Directors Relative TSR has been included as one of the performance have service contracts that are terminable on one years conditions for the performance share awards to ensure notice by either the individual or the Company.
It is not the alignment between the interests of executives with those Committees intention to appoint any new Executive Directors of shareholders for the reasons noted above.
The Committee with contracts that provide for a longer notice period.
has also included an EPS measure as this ensures rewards The Committee endorses the principle of mitigation of loss are only received for sustained improvements in the financial on early termination of a service contract and generally seeks performance of the Company.
The TSR elements of the to achieve that objective, where possible and appropriate.
performance conditions will be calculated by Towers Perrin In the event that THUS wished to terminate an Executive using data supplied by Datastream and regularly reported Directors contract other than in circumstances where the to the Committee.
The EPS calculations will be performed Company is entitled to summarily dismiss an Executive internally and audited.
Director, it would need to either give 12 months notice The Committee has usually granted either share options or make a payment in lieu of salary and benefits.
In the next financial year, it intends New contracts have been implemented for each of the to make grants under both the THUS Group plc Discretionary Executive Directors and the special provisions in their Share Option Scheme and the THUS Group Performance contracts that provided for an enhanced termination Share Plan.
This will increase the proportion of remuneration payment of up to 24 months salary and benefits if they which is performance-linked, in accordance with the were to leave shortly prior to, or following, a takeover Committees remuneration principles.
or trade sale of the Company have been removed.
The Committee is satisfied that the combination of share The new contracts provide for a compensation payment options and performance shares in the financial year ending in the event of termination within 12 months of a hostile 31 March 2005 is necessary to ensure that the remuneration takeover equivalent to 12 months remuneration.
packages for Executive Directors are competitive and reflect 16 The Chairman and Non-executive Directors Statement of the Independent The Chairman and Non-executive Directors have letters of Auditors to the Members of THUS appointment which are available at www.
They have Group plc pursuant to Section 251 all been appointed for a term of three years terminable at the request of the Board and which renew subject to their reof the Companies Act 1985 election by shareholders.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The fees We have examined the Summary Financial Statement set out of the Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board.
The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are not entitled This statement is made solely to the Companys members, as to compensation on early termination of their term of office.
a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act No individuals are involved in the determination of their 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state own remuneration.
to the Companys members those matters we are required to Performance graph state to them in such a statement and for no other purpose.
Legislation introduced by the Government requires this To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Report to contain a graph showing the performance of the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company Company compared with a broad equity market index and the Companys members as a body, for our work, for over the period since the Company listed on 14 March this statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
The Committee has chosen the FTSE All-Share Respective responsibilities of Directors Telecommunications Index, of which THUS is a constituent.
and Auditors This Index was chosen because it shows the performance The Directors are responsible for preparing the Summary of the Company relative to its industry peer group and Annual Report in accordance with applicable United is therefore particularly relevant to shareholders.
Historical TSR Performance Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the Source: Datastream consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the 140 Summary Annual Report with the full annual Accounts, the 120 Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, 100 and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 80 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made 60 thereunder.
We also read the other information contained 40 in the Summary Annual Report and consider the implications 20 for our report if we become aware of any apparent 0 misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary 31 March 02 31 March 03 31 March 04 Financial Statement.
Growth in the value of hypothetical 100 holding since listing date Basis of opinion FTSE All-Share Telecommunications Services Index comparison based on spot values We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, THUS Group The auditors statement on the summary financial statement FTSE All-Share Telecommunications Service Index issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Our report on the Groups full annual Accounts Summary of emoluments paid to Directors describes the basis of our audit opinion on those Accounts.
000 Opinion Aggregate emoluments paid to Directors 1,525 In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the full annual Accounts, the Directors Report and the Aggregate gains made by Directors Directors Remuneration Report of THUS Group plc for the on exercise of share options 0 year ended 31 March 2004 and complies with the applicable Aggregate value of assets receivable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and under long-term incentive schemes 0 the regulations made thereunder.
Aggregate company contributions in respect KPMG Audit Plc of Directors to money purchase pension schemes 0 Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 8 Salisbury Square Number of Directors with retirement London benefits accruing under: EC4Y 8BB Money purchase schemes 0 30 April 2004 Defined-benefit schemes 3 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the THUS Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Accounts or audit report since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
17 Summary Group Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 31 March 2004 2004 2003 000 000 Turnover from continuing operations 332,372 291,236 Operating loss from continuing operations 21,213 50,799 Exceptional items Loss gain on sale of fixed assets 266 250 Loss on ordinary activities before interest and other similar charges 21,479 50,549 Amounts written back to off investments 1,740 1,325 Net interest payable and other similar charges 5,270 6,915 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 25,009 58,789 Taxation on loss on ordinary activities 212 196 Loss for the financial year 25,221 58,985 Loss and diluted loss per ordinary share pence 1.90 4.44 Directors emoluments pounds 1,524,664 1,056,169 Summary Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses for the year ended 31 March 2004 2004 2003 000 000 Loss for the financial year 25,221 58,985 Currency translation differences on overseas net assets 38 62 Unrealised gains losses on fixed asset disposals 839 507 Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 24,420 59,554 18 Summary Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the year ended 31 March 2004 2004 2003 000 000 Loss for the financial year 25,221 58,985 Currency translation differences on overseas net assets 38 62 Merger reserve movement 814 Unrealised gains losses on fixed asset disposals 839 507 Net movement in shareholders funds 24,420 58,740 Opening shareholders funds 407,412 466,152 Closing shareholders funds 382,992 407,412 Summary Balance Sheets as at 31 March 2004 Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 000 000 000 000 Fixed assets 416,212 436,809 56,963 56,963 Current assets 126,515 107,513 87 87 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 101,817 95,628 627 627 Net current assets liabilities 24,698 11,885 540 540 Total assets less current liabilities 440,910 448,694 56,423 56,423 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 57,179 40,666 Provisions for liabilities and charges 739 616 Net assets 382,992 407,412 56,423 56,423 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 33,715 33,715 33,715 33,715 Merger reserve 566,560 566,560 Capital redemption reserve 23,248 23,248 23,248 23,248 Other reserves 18,700 18,840 Profit and loss account 259,231 234,951 540 540 Shareholders funds 382,992 407,412 56,423 56,423 19 Summary Group Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31 March 2004 2004 2003 000 000 Net cash inflow from continuing operating activities 37,418 26,076 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 3,351 8,413 Free cash flow 34,067 17,663 Capital expenditure and financial investment 36,664 54,362 Cash outflow before financing 2,597 36,699 Financing 16,875 39,394 Increase in cash in the year 14,278 2,695 Movement in net debt in the year 2,697 36,699 Approved by the Board on 30 April 2004 and signed on its behalf by William Allan John Maguire Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer The Summary Financial Statement on pages 18 to 21 is only a summary of information in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
They do not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company or of the Group, and of their policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration as would be provided by the full Annual Report and Accounts.
The statutory financial statements have been delivered to the Registrar of Companies and the Auditors have reported on them: their report was unqualified and did not contain statements under Section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
For further information, the full Annual Accounts and the Independent Auditors Report on those Accounts should be consulted.
Copies of the full Annual Report and Accounts may be obtained, free of charge, on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Members may elect to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts in place of the Summary Financial Statement for future years by writing to the Company Secretary.
20 Notes to the Summary Financial Statement for the year ended 31 March 2004 1 Basis of preparation 2 Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA The Group restructuring was accounted for in accordance with the principles of merger accounting set out in Financial 2004 2003 000 000 Reporting Standard 6 Acquisitions and Mergers FRS 6 and Schedule 4A to the Companies Act 1985.
Operating loss 21,213 50,799 The final step of the restructuring of the THUS Group was the Depreciation charge for the year 64,611 77,737 redesignation on 19 March 2002 of the THUS Group plc Amortisation charge for the year 165 165 Preference Shares to ordinary shares, the relative rights of EBITDA 43,563 27,103 shareholders at the start and end of the restructuring process did not remain unchanged.
As a result, the restructuring did not meet the definition of a group reconstruction under FRS 6 which would have required the restructuring to be accounted 3 Directors emoluments and interests for under acquisition accounting principles.
This would have resulted in all the separate assets and liabilities of THUS plc The aggregate amount of emoluments and gains on being recorded at fair value, goodwill and goodwill the exercise of the Performance Unit Equity Plan PUEP amortisation charges arising and only the post acquisition entitlements and the Profit Sharing Scheme, but excluding results of THUS plc being reported in the Consolidated Profit pensions, of the highest paid Director was 540,328 and Loss Account.
The Directors of the Company did not 2003: 337,363. believe that this would have given a true and fair view of the Half of the bonus 112,500 awarded during the year state of affairs of the Group and of its results as, in substance, to the highest paid Director is compulsorily deferred the change of the relative rights of the shareholders was into shares which will vest after three years subject incidental to the main purpose of the restructuring which was to continued employment.
a change in the identity of the holding company rather than an acquisition of a business.
The aggregate of the gains made on exercise of the PUEP entitlements and the Profit Sharing Scheme during the year Consequently, the restructuring was accounted for using was Nil 2003: 52,017.
No other share options or awards merger accounting principles as the Directors of the Company were exercisable in the current or prior year.
considered this was necessary in order to meet the overriding requirements of the Companies Act 1985 to show a true and fair view.
The Directors of the Company consider that it is not practicable to quantify the effect of this departure from the detailed accounting requirements.
21 Athe allotment of equity securities in connection with Notice of Annual General Meeting a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders and in favour of holders Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of any other class of equity security in accordance with of the Company for 2004 will be held on Friday 9 July 2004 the rights attached to such class where the equity securities at 11.00 a. m. at the Radisson SAS Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, respectively attributable to the interests of such persons Glasgow, G2 8DL for the following purposes: on a fixed record date are proportionate as nearly as Ordinary business may be to the respective numbers of equity securities held 1To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004. rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the 2To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the Board may deem necessary or expedient to deal with year ended 31 March 2004. fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems 3To re-elect William Allan as a Director.
arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter 4To re-elect Michael fide Kare-Silver as a Director.
whatsoever : and 5To re-elect Jo Connell as a Director.
B the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph 6To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company A above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
value of 1,685,766.44 or if less 5% of the issued ordinary share capital from time to time: Special business 7To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution resolution: or, if earlier, 9 October 2005, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would THAT the Board be and it is hereby generally and or might require equity securities to be allotted after such unconditionally authorised in substitution for the authority expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance conferred on it by all subsisting authorities to exercise all of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within hereby had not expired.
the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,238,442.96, By order of the Board which authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next David Macleod Annual General Meeting of the Company after the Secretary passing of this resolution unless previously revoked or 14 May 2004 varied by the Company in general meeting or, if earlier, 9 October 2005 save that the Company may before such Registered office: expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might 1 2 Berkeley Square require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry 99 Berkeley Street and the Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance Glasgow, G3 7HR of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting hereby had not expired.
is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, 8 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution: Company.
A separate form of proxy is enclosed.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations THAT the Board be and it is hereby empowered, 2001, members will be entitled to attend and vote at the pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, meeting if they are registered on the Companys register to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section of members by 6.00 p. m. on 7 July 2004 or by 6.00 p. m. 94 of the said Act for cash, pursuant to the authority two days prior to the date of any adjournment of the meeting.
conferred by the previous resolution, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, PROVIDED THAT this power shall be limited to: 22 Notes Resolution 8 Resolution 1 If shares are to be offered for cash, the Companies Act 1985 The Directors are required by law to present to the meeting requires that those shares are offered first to the existing the Accounts and the Report of the Directors and Auditors shareholders in proportion to the number of shares they hold for the year ended 31 March 2004. at the time of the offer.
However, it may sometimes be in the interests of the Company for the Directors to allot shares other Resolution 2 than to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The shareholders are being asked to vote on the Remuneration At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders Report relating to Directors and senior executives.
The vote authorised the Board, subject to specified limits: is advisory and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on the resolution being passed.
to allot shares in connection with a rights issue, defined in summary as an offer of equity securities to shareholders Resolution 35 which is open for a period decided by the Board, subject The Articles of Association require one-third of Directors to any limits or restrictions which the Board thinks are to retire at every Annual General Meeting.
The Board, necessary or appropriate.
following its evaluation of the performance of those Directors standing for re-election, confirms that each for allotments of shares not in connection with a rights of those Directors continues to perform effectively and issue so that the pre-emption requirement does not demonstrates commitment to the role.
apply to the allotments of shares for cash up to a specific amount.
Resolution 6 The re-appointment of the Auditors is proposed.
Following This authority requires to be renewed annually.
The Directors assessment of the audit service by the Audit Committee, the will be empowered by Resolution 8 to allot equity securities Board considers the Auditors to be effective and independent within the meaning of Section 94 of the Companies Act 1985 in their role.
for cash without complying with the statutory pre-emption rights of shareholders under Section 89 of the Companies Resolution 7 Act 1985, up to a maximum amount of 11,238,442.96.
Under the Companies Act 1985 Section 80, the directors This disapplication is limited to allotments made to ordinary of a company may only allot unissued shares if authorised shareholders and holders of any other class of equity security to do so.
Passing this Resolution will continue the Directors in proportion as nearly as may be to their holdings and, flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders when otherwise, to allotments up to a maximum nominal amount opportunities arise by issuing new shares.
of 1,685,766.44 representing approximately 5% of the In Resolution 7 the Company is seeking authority to allot Companys issued ordinary share capital.
shares with a nominal value of up to 11,238,442.96, This means that the interests of existing shareholders which represents approximately 33.33% of the Companys are protected.
If a share issue is not a rights issue, the issued ordinary share capital.
The Directors intend to use proportionate interest of existing shareholders could not this authority, which will lapse at the conclusion of the next without their agreement be reduced by more than 5% Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held of the value of the new shares in cash to new shareholders in 2005 or, if earlier, 9 October 2005, for general by reference to the issued share capital at the date of this corporate purposes.
There are no current plans to allot shares except in connection with the employee share schemes.
23 How to vote General Information for You should raise above your head your voting card which Shareholders Attending the you will receive when you register indicating that you are Annual General Meeting voting either for or against each resolution as it is put to the vote by the Chairman.
Only shareholders, or authorised 1 The Notice of Meeting is being issued to all shareholders.
representatives of corporate shareholders, may vote on Enclosed with this notice, you will find an attendance card a show of hands.
If you are attending as a proxy for a and a form of proxy.
shareholder, you will receive an appropriate identification card at registration.
Time The doors will open at 9.30 a. m. and the meeting will start 3A shareholder is entitled to appoint one or more proxies promptly at 11.00 a. m. to attend and, upon a poll, vote instead of him.
If you wish to appoint a proxy, Cameras tape recorders, etc.
you must complete the enclosed form of proxy which must No cameras, video recorders or tape recorders will be be deposited with the Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, allowed into the meeting.
Mobile phones must be switched The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6UU, not off during the meeting.
Registration 4 Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts, To ensure your entrance to the meeting is dealt with promptly, letters of appointment for the Non-executive Directors, please bring your attendance card with you and register a statement of all transactions of Directors and of their at the registration desk inside the hotel.
families in the share capital of the Company in the year ended 31 March 2004, a copy of the Register of Customer enquiries Directors and their families interests in the share Company personnel will be available if you have any capital of the Company and a copy of the Companys questions as a customer of the Company.
Memorandum and Articles of Association will be Shareholder information available for inspection at the Companys registered If you have any questions concerning your shareholding, office during normal business hours on each day except please speak to the staff at the shareholders enquiry desk.
Saturday, Sunday and any public holidays from the date of the Notice of Meeting until 9 July 2004 and also at the Disabled persons place of the AGM from 10.30 a. m. on the day of the Special arrangements have been made to offer every meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
Copies of the assistance to people with disabilities.
If you have a same will also be available on the same days at the offices companion to assist you, they will be admitted to the meeting of the Companys solicitors, Biggart Baillie, Dalmore as a guest.
The auditorium House, 310 St Vincent Street, Glasgow, G2 5BB.
has an induction loop system and headsets are available on request if you are deaf or hard of hearing.
Introduction After his opening remarks, the Chairman will explain in detail First aid the procedures for the conduct of the meeting, particularly First aid facilities are available.
Ask any member of staff for asking questions and voting on resolutions.
which are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will then be put to the meeting.
Emergency precautions An announcement will be made if there is a fire warning or How to ask questions other emergency.
Emergency exits are marked clearly around At the meeting, shareholders will be given the opportunity the auditorium.
In case of a medical emergency, please to ask questions from Question Points which will be contact a member of staff.
Refreshments At each Question Point, a member of staff will be available Refreshments will be available between 9.30 a. m. and to help you.
Please tell the member of staff the nature of your 10.50 a. m. question and give your name and address.
Please remember Important to state your name before asking your question.
If you have any questions about the meeting, or if you need any assistance, please telephone the Annual General Meeting enquiry line on 020 7763 3156 from Monday 7 June 2004 during normal working hours.
24 Registrars Shareholder and Contact Information All administrative enquiries relating to shareholdings should be directed to The Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Analysis of shareholders as at 31 March 2004 Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Tel: 0870 609 4531, Fax: 01903 833 371.
Range of holdings Number of Numbers of shareholders shares Share dealing 1100 141,591 11,227,353 THUS Groups shares may be bought or sold at competitive rates by post or telephone.
Tel: 020 7763 3156 0141 566 3051 Corporate Communications, THUS Group plc, Financial calendar 1 2 Berkeley Square, 99 Berkeley Street, Glasgow, G3 7HR Tel: 0141 566 3106 0141 566 3051 9 July 2004 Annual General Meeting November 2004 Interim Results for the six months THUSs services ending 30 September 2004 Information about THUSs services can be found on the THUS website at www.
April May 2005 Preliminary Results for the year ending 31 March 2005 Shareholder information Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Radisson SAS Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, Glasgow, G2 8DL on Friday 9 July 2004 at 11.00 a. m. Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 22 and 23. Dividend The Directors have not recommended the payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004.
Secretary and registered office David Macleod THUS Group plc 1 2 Berkeley Square 99 Berkeley Street Glasgow, G3 7HR Registered number SC 226738 Designed and produced by williams and phoa, printed in the UK.
25 E-Communications Care for the environment Each year, your company sends tens of thousands of paperbased Annual Reports but there is a better and more cost-effective way for you to receive this information which is also kinder on the environment.
