Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company for Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy 2004 will be held on Friday 9 July 2004 at 11.00 a. m. at the Radisson SAS Hotel, to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member 301 Argyle Street, Glasgow, G2 8DL for the following purposes: of the Company.
A separate form of proxy is enclosed.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, members will be entitled Ordinary business to attend and vote at the meeting if they are registered on the Companys register 1To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and Accounts of members by 6.00 p. m. on 7 July 2004 or by 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the for the year ended 31 March 2004. date of any adjournment of the meeting.
2To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended Notes 31 March 2004.
Resolution 1 3To re-elect William Allan as a Director.
The Directors are required by law to present to the meeting the Accounts and the Report of the Directors and Auditors for the year ended 31 March 2004.
4To re-elect Michael fide Kare-Silver as a Director.
Resolution 2 5To re-elect Jo Connell as a Director.
The shareholders are being asked to vote on the Remuneration Report relating 6To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company to Directors and senior executives.
The vote is advisory and the Directors and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on the resolution being passed.
Special business Resolution 35 7To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution which will The Articles of Association require one-third of Directors to retire at every Annual be proposed as an ordinary resolution: General Meeting.
The Board, following its evaluation of the performance of those Directors standing for re-election, confirms that each of those Directors continues THAT the Board be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
in substitution for the authority conferred on it by all subsisting authorities to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within Resolution 6 the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate The re-appointment of the Auditors is proposed.
Following assessment of the audit nominal amount of 11,238,442.96, which authority shall expire at the service by the Audit Committee, the Board considers the Auditors to be effective conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the and independent in their role.
passing of this resolution unless previously revoked or varied by the Company Resolution 7 in general meeting or, if earlier, 9 October 2005, save that the Company may Under the Companies Act 1985 Section 80, the directors of a company may only before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require allot unissued shares if authorised to do so.
Passing this Resolution will continue the relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot Directors flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders when opportunities relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority arise by issuing new shares.
conferred hereby had not expired.
In Resolution 7 the Company is seeking authority to allot shares with a nominal 8 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution which will be value of up to 11,238,442.96, which represents approximately 33.33% proposed as a special resolution: of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The Directors intend to use this THAT the Board be and it is hereby empowered, pursuant to Section 95 authority, which will lapse at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Companies Act 1985, to allot equity securities within the meaning of the Company to be held in 2005 or, if earlier, 9 October 2005, for general of Section 94 of the said Act for cash, pursuant to the authority conferred corporate purposes.
by Resolution 7 as set out in the notice of the meeting, as if sub-section 1 Resolution 8 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, PROVIDED If shares are to be offered for cash, the Companies Act 1985 requires that those THAT this power shall be limited to: shares are offered first to the existing shareholders in proportion to the number A the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open of shares they hold at the time of the offer.
However, it may sometimes be in the offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders interests of the Company for the Directors to allot shares other than to shareholders and in favour of holders of any other class of equity security in in proportion to their existing holdings.
At last years Annual General Meeting, accordance with the rights attached to such class where the equity shareholders authorised the Board, subject to specified limits: securities respectively attributable to the interests of such persons to allot shares in connection with a rights issue, defined in summary as an offer on a fixed record date are proportionate as nearly as may be to the of equity securities to shareholders which is open for a period decided by the respective numbers of equity securities held by them or are otherwise Board, subject to any limits or restrictions which the Board thinks are necessary allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities or appropriate.
subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional for allotments of shares not in connection with a rights issue so that the entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in any overseas pre-emption requirement does not apply to the allotments of shares for cash territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange up to a specific amount.
or any other matter whatsoever : and This authority requires to be renewed annually.
The Directors will be empowered B the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph A above by Resolution 8 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,685,766.44: Companies Act 1985 for cash without complying with the statutory pre-emption or, if less, 5% of the issued ordinary share capital from time to time: rights of shareholders under Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, up to a maximum amount of 11,238,442.96.
This disapplication is limited to allotments and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the made to ordinary shareholders and holders of any other class of equity security Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, 9 October 2005, save in proportion as nearly as may be to their holdings and, otherwise, to allotments that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,685,766.44 representing approximately would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
This means that the interests of existing shareholders are protected.
If a share issue is not a rights issue, the proportionate interest of existing shareholders could not, By order of the Board Registered office: without their agreement, be reduced by more than 5% of the value of the new David Macleod 1 2 Berkeley Square shares in cash to new shareholders by reference to the issued share capital at the Secretary 99 Berkeley Street date of this notice.
There are no current plans to allot shares except in connection 14 May 2004 Glasgow, G3 7HR with the employee share schemes.
