Accounting Policies and Definitions Turnover definitions Accounting Policies The Groups turnover comprises revenues from data and telecom services, A summary of the more important Group Accounting Policies is set out below: Internet services, contact centre services and interactive services, each of which The following principal accounting policies have been applied consistently are defined as follows: in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Data and telecom services Groups Accounts.
Revenues are derived from communication solutions, including the Basis of preparation provision of switched services, capacity services, data services and facility The Accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and management services.
in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the UK, subject to the Internet services true and fair override as noted below, and with the requirements of the Revenues from Internet services comprise monthly access fees paid by Internet Companies Act 1985. dial up subscribers, ingress receipts, revenue from business access services Basis of consolidation including the provision of leased lines, web design and e-commerce services The Group Accounts include the Accounts of the Company and its subsidiary and revenues from wholesale Internet services provided to Virtual Internet undertakings made up to 31 March 2004.
Unless otherwise stated, the Service Providers.
acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the Contact centre services results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the year are Revenues represent the provision of outsourced contact centres, telemarketing, included in the consolidated Profit and Loss Account from the date of acquisition systems integration and consulting services.
or up to the date of disposal.
As noted below, the restructuring of the THUS Group was accounted for using the principles of merger accounting set out in Financial Interactive services Reporting Standard 6 Acquisitions and Mergers FRS 6 and Schedule 4A Revenue from interactive services comprise the Groups share of premium to the Companies Act 1985. rate call charges.
The final step of the restructuring of the THUS Group was the redesignation Cost definitions on 19 March 2002 of the THUS Group plc Preference Shares to ordinary The Groups costs comprise cost of sales, selling and distribution and shares, the relative rights of shareholders at the start and end of the restructuring administration costs.
process did not remain unchanged.
As a result, the restructuring did not meet the Cost of sales definition of a group reconstruction under FRS 6 which would have required the Cost of sales consists of interconnect costs and payments to other Public restructuring to be accounted for under acquisition accounting principles.
This Telecommunications Operators PTOs, network costs, network depreciation, would have resulted in all the separate assets and liabilities of THUS plc being contact centre costs, interactive royalties and related costs.
recorded at fair value, goodwill and goodwill amortisation charges arising and only the post acquisition results of THUS plc being reported in the consolidated Selling and distribution costs Profit and Loss Account.
The Directors of the Company did not believe that this Selling and distribution costs comprise expenditure on marketing, advertising would have given a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and and promotions, together with the salaries and associated costs of the sales of its results as, in substance, the change in the relative rights of the shareholders and marketing function.
was incidental to the main purpose of the restructuring which was a change Administration expenses in the identity of the holding company rather than an acquisition of a business.
Administration expenses comprise expenditure on customer services, human Consequently, the restructuring was accounted for using merger accounting resources, information technology, legal and regulatory compliance, finance principles as the Directors of the Company considered this was necessary in order department costs and non-operational property together with depreciation to meet the overriding requirements of the Companies Act 1985 to show a true of non-network assets.
The Directors of the Company consider that it is not practicable Other definitions to quantify the effect of this departure from the detailed accounting requirements.
Company or THUS Under Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the Company is exempt from THUS Group plc the requirement to present its own Profit and Loss Account.
ScottishTelecom Businesses Turnover The businesses acquired by the Company on 30 September 1999 Turnover represents the value of goods and services supplied to customers during together with Scotland On-Line Limited.
the year net of Value Added Tax.
Group Indefeasible Rights of Use IRU sales THUS Group plc and its subsidiaries and, for the periods prior As part of its service offering, the Group periodically sells dark fibre to other to 30 September 1999, the ScottishTelecom businesses.
network operators seeking to extend their own networks under IRU agreements.
Subsidiary undertakings These agreements extend for all of the assets expected useful lives and transfer Entities in which the Company holds a long-term controlling interest.
substantially all of the risks and benefits of ownership to the buyer.
In a number of cases, the Group has acquired dark fibre under IRU agreements from the same ScottishPower counterparties in order to complete its own network.
Scottish Power plc and its subsidiaries.
Where the consideration received by the Group for such IRU sales is in cash and there is no separate agreement with the buyer to acquire fibre, the resulting profit loss is shown in the Accounts as a gain loss on the disposal of fixed assets.
28 Own shares held under trust Where the sale of fibre for cash has occurred and there is a separate agreement Shares in the Company purchased for employee share options are held under with the buyer, involving the Group acquiring fibre of a similar value at a similar Trust and are recorded within Fixed Asset Investments in the Balance Sheet at cost time, the Directors have concluded that it is most appropriate to record the sale less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
and purchase transactions at fair value with the gain arising on the sale treated as unrealised and recorded in the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Unrealised gains and losses are recognised over the life of the agreement.
Finance and operating leases Interest Assets leased by the Group under finance leases are capitalised and depreciated All interest payable and receivable is reflected in the Profit and Loss Account in line with the Groups depreciation policy.
The interest element of the finance as it accrues.
lease repayments is charged to the Profit and Loss Account in proportion to the Debt issue costs are accounted for as an adjustment to the amount of debt balance of the capital repayments outstanding.
Rentals payable under operating outstanding and are included within finance charges over the life of the leases are charged to the Profit and Loss Account as incurred.
Rent free periods associated borrowings.
Debt issue costs relating to surplus loan facilities received by the Group, at the inception of new operating leases for properties, are written off immediately on identification of that surplus.
are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account over the period of the lease or, if shorter than the full lease term, over the period to the renewal date at which Taxation the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
The charge credit for taxation is based on the results for the period and takes into account full provision for deferred tax, using the approach set out in Foreign currencies Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Tax FRS 19 in respect of timing Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date differences on a non-discounted basis.
A recoverability test is applied to losses.
At the year end, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the Balance Intangible fixed assets Sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on the restatement of such balances Licence fees are capitalised at cost, less provision for any impairment in value, is taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
The Accounts of the overseas entity and amortised over the remaining licence period once the relevant network and branch are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the Balance Sheet to which a licence relates becomes operational and a service is launched date.
The exchange difference arising on the retranslation of opening net to the public.
assets is taken directly to reserves.
Costs associated with the development of new products or services are capitalised Financial instruments and amortised over the anticipated life of the new product or service once this Charges relating to financial instruments acquired to reduce risk to interest is launched to the public.
rate exposure are charged to the Profit and Loss Account as incurred.
Tangible fixed assets Pensions Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, less provision for any impairment Pension costs are accounted for on the basis of charging the expected cost in value, and are depreciated using the straight line method over their estimated of providing pensions over the period during which the Group benefits from operational lives.
Tangible fixed assets include capitalised employee costs and the employees services.
The effects of variations from regular costs are spread other costs which are directly attributable to the construction of fixed assets.
over the expected remaining working lifetime of the members of the scheme The main depreciation periods used are as set out below: after making suitable allowances for future withdrawals.
Contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the Profit and Loss Account Land and leasehold buildings Years in the period in which they are incurred.
The pension cost figures used in these Alterations to leasehold premises Over lease period Accounts comply with the current pension cost accounting standard, Statement or useful life if shorter of Standard Accounting Practice 24 Accounting for Pension Costs SSAP 24.
Buildings: Equipment accommodation modules 10 Financial Reporting Standard 17 Retirement Benefits FRS 17 was issued on Plant and equipment 30 November 2000.
Under the transitional arrangements permitted by FRS 17, Underground network 40 the Group is required to disclose the information in Note 24.
Fibre optic cable 20 For a minority of employees the Group pays varying levels of contributions to personal pension schemes.
The costs are charged against the Profit and Loss Electronics, customers systems and base stations 10 Account as incurred.
Customer connections 5 Tools 4 Other Furniture and fittings 10 Vehicles 4 Computers and related software 3 to 5 Investments Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the Balance Sheet of the Parent Company at cost less provision for any permanent diminution in value.
