Report of independent registered public accounting firm To the Board of Directors and shareholders of Tomkins plc We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Tomkins plc and subsidiaries Tomkins plc as of January 1, 2005 and January 3, 2004, and the related consolidated statements of income, cash flows and changes in shareholders equity for the years ended January 1, 2005 and January 3, 2004, the eight months to December 31, 2002 and the year ended April 30, 2002.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting.
An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the combined businesses internal control over financial reporting.
Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Tomkins plc as of January 1, 2005 and January 3, 2004 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years ended January 1, 2005, January 3, 2004, the eight months ended December 31, 2002 and for the year ended April 30, 2002, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
On May 1, 2002, the Company changed its method of accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets to conform to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
This is discussed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
On May 1, 2001, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, and its related amendments.
This is discussed in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP London, United Kingdom March 18, 2005 62
