Notice of meeting To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will Notice is hereby given that the seventy-ninth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, be proposed as an ordinary resolution: Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Thursday 19 May 2005 12 THAT the rules of the Tomkins 2005 Sharesave Scheme produced to at 11.00 am to transact the following business: the Meeting and, for the purposes of identification, initialled by the 1 To receive the Directors report and financial statements for the year Chairman, be and are hereby approved, and that the Directors be ended 1 January 2005 together with the independent auditors report.
and are hereby authorised to do all acts and things which they may 2 To approve the Remuneration Committee report for the year ended consider necessary or desirable for implementing and giving effect 1 January 2005. to the said scheme, and further that the Directors be and are hereby 3 To declare a final dividend of 7.77p per ordinary share for the year authorised to establish one or more further schemes based on the ended 1 January 2005.
Tomkins 2005 Sharesave Scheme but modified to take account of any 4 To re-appoint as a Director Mr N N Broadhurst.
local tax, exchange control, securities or other laws in overseas 5 To re-appoint as a Director Mr J M J Keenan.
6 To re-appoint as a Director Mr J Nicol.
By Order of the Board 7 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent auditors.
8 To authorise the Directors to determine the independent N C Porter Secretary auditors remuneration.
East Putney House To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will 84 Upper Richmond Road be proposed as an ordinary resolution: London SW15 2ST 9 THAT the Directors be and they are hereby authorised in accordance 22 March 2005 with, and subject to the terms of, article 5 of the Companys Articles of Association to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal Notes: amount of 12,880,674.
Any shareholder entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint a proxy to attend and vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will A white form of proxy for use by ordinary shareholders and or a green form of proxy be proposed as special resolutions: for use by convertible cumulative preference shareholders is are enclosed.
Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 10 THAT the Directors be and they are hereby authorised in accordance 6.00 pm on Tuesday 17 May 2005 shall be entitled to attend and or vote at this Meeting in with, and subject to the terms of, article 6 of the Companys Articles of respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6.00 pm on Tuesday 17 May 2005 shall be Association to allot shares for cash for the purposes of paragraph ii of disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and or vote at this Meeting.
article 6 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,934,724.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for this Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using 11 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST authorised, in substitution for any authority to purchase ordinary sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company previously conferred provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
"save to the extent the same has been exercised, to make market In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act valid, the appropriate CREST message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must be properly 1985 of ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital of the Company authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo's specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual."
The Shares provided that: message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be acquired to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID 7RA01 by is 77,408,588 Shares or, if lower, such number of Shares as is equal 11.00 am on Tuesday 17 May 2005.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by at the close of business on 18 May 2005: enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the b the maximum price which may be paid for any Share is an amount equal appointee through other means.
to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for a CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Share to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member is contracted to be purchased and the minimum price which may be paid concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored for any such Share shall be the nominal value of that Share: and member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a c this authority shall expire on 30 June 2006 or, if earlier, at the message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning in 2006, but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
which will or may be executed wholly or partly thereafter, and a The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out purchase of Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Copies of the rules of the Tomkins 2005 Sharesave Scheme will be available for inspection during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excepted at the offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY and the Company, East Putney House, 84 Upper Richmond Road, London SW15 2ST from the date of this Notice until the time of the Meeting and at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre from 15 minutes before the Meeting until it ends.
