Reconciliation to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP which differ in certain respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America US GAAP.
The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit attributable to shareholders and shareholders equity determined in accordance with UK GAAP, necessary to reconcile to net income and shareholders equity determined in accordance with US GAAP.
RECONCILIATION FROM UK GAAP TO US GAAP Profit attributable to shareholders 1 January 2005 3 January 2004 Notes million million Net income before preference dividend under UK GAAP 172.6 171.8 US GAAP adjustments: Goodwill amortisation a 12.5 11.9 Goodwill impairment a 30.0 Reversal of UK provision for impairment a 51.4 Adjustment to UK provision for costs on exit of business 10.3 10.5 Other differences arising on treatment of provisions for restructuring costs 1.6 2.5 Intangibles amortisation b 2.9 1.6 Adjustments to fair value of net assets acquired c 0.2 Gain loss on disposal of operations d 13.1 22.6 Inventory adjustment e 0.9 2.5 Pension costs f 10.6 3.4 Share options g 1.4 4.0 Capitalised interest h 4.5 2.2 Deferred income tax i 12.8 2.1 Derivatives j 20.1 29.5 Net income under US GAAP 206.3 265.4 $ million $ million Net income under US GAAP expressed in US dollars at an average exchange rate of 1 $1.
8257 Year ended 3 January 2004, 1 $1.6306 376.6 432.7 Differences arising from use of average exchange rate versus actual exchange rate 1.1 6.0 377.7 426.7 Shareholders equity 1 January 2005 3 January 2004 Notes million million Shareholders equity under UK GAAP 785.6 744.0 US GAAP adjustments: Goodwill net a 698.5 736.7 Reversal of UK provisions for costs on exit of business 10.5 Intangibles net b 25.6 24.5 Inventory e 3.0 2.3 Pension liabilities f 101.3 127.0 Share options g 1.4 0.7 Capitalised interest net h 17.1 13.5 Dividends l 60.0 57.2 Deferred income tax i 30.2 46.8 Derivatives j 7.6 0.5 Restructuring costs k 0.8 2.5 Shareholders equity under US GAAP 1,522.5 1,506.6 $ million $ million Shareholders equity under US GAAP expressed in US dollars at a closing exchange rate of 1 $1.9199 3 January 2004 1 $1.7901 2,923.1 2,697.0 Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior period amounts to conform with the current periods presentation.
Directors Report and Accounts 2004 59 Reconciliation to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America continued DESCRIPTION OF DIFFERENCES FROM ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Under UK GAAP, the effect of the variations in cost can be accumulated at GENERALLY ACCEPTED IN THE UNITED KINGDOM successive valuations and amortised on an aggregate basis.
Under US GAAP, the amortisation of the costs of past service benefit improvements are a Goodwill separately tracked.
Experience gains losses are dealt with on an aggregate Under UK GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions subsequent to 3 May 1998 basis but amortised only to the extent that they exceed 10 per cent of is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over its the greater of the plan assets or the projected benefit obligation at the estimated useful economic life which is estimated not to exceed a maximum beginning of the fiscal year.
UK GAAP allows measurements of plan assets of 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or before 2 May 1998 and liabilities to be based on the result of the latest actuarial valuation, was charged directly to reserves and is recaptured through the profit and loss whereas US GAAP requires measurement of plan assets and liabilities to be on disposal.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Under US GAAP, effective made at the date of the financial statements or up to three months prior 1 May 2002, Tomkins adopted US Statement of Financial Accounting to that date.
US GAAP also requires that a minimum pension liability must Standards SFAS No.
142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
be recorded for the amount by which the plan is under-funded ignoring This statement addresses financial accounting and reporting for acquired projected future salary increases.
A corresponding amount is recorded as goodwill and other intangible assets and requires that goodwill and some an intangible asset, to the extent of unrecognised prior service cost, and the intangibles no longer be amortised on a recurring basis.
Instead, goodwill balance is recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax.
and intangible assets with an indefinite life are subject to an annual impairment test thereafter.
An annual impairment test has been completed g Share options as of 1 January 2005 and 3 January 2004.
These reviews resulted in a Under UK GAAP, the difference between the exercise price and the market goodwill impairment of nil and 30.0 million respectively.
price of the shares at the grant date is recorded as compensation expense in the income statement.
Under US GAAP, stock based compensation is b Recognition of intangibles arising on a business combination accounted for in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion Under UK GAAP, intangible assets, other than goodwill, may only be separately APB No.
25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.
Under APB recognised in a business combination if they can be disposed of separately from No.
25, the Company recognises compensation expense for the difference the business of the entity and their value can be reasonably estimated.
between the exercise price and market price at the measurement date over Under US GAAP, intangible assets arising on a business combination should the vesting period.
The measurement date is the first date on which the be recognised i if they arise from contractual or other legal rights employer knows the number of shares that an employee is entitled to receive regardless of whether those rights are transferable or separable from the and the exercise price is known.
Where the measurement date occurs after acquired entity or from other legal rights or obligations or ii they are the grant date, as in the case of performance related options, compensation capable of being separated or divided from the acquired entity and sold, cost is recorded over the vesting period for the difference between the share transferred, licensed, rented or otherwise exchanged.
price at the balance sheet date and the exercise price and is adjusted in subsequent periods up to the measurement date.
Where the performance c Valuation of net assets acquired in a business combination condition is such that management cannot make a reasonable estimate Under US GAAP manufactured stock acquired in business combinations because the Company cannot control the outcome of the performance is recorded at estimated selling price less future disposal costs and conditions, such as the achievement of a target share price, no compensation a reasonable profit allowance whereas it is recognised at replacement cost is recognised until the performance condition is satisfied.
Under UK GAAP, the compensation costs relating to share options granted d Disposal of operations to employees under annual bonus plans that vest in future periods are The gain or loss on the disposal of operations is a result of the difference recognised on the grant date.
Under US GAAP, the compensation costs in values between assets and liabilities disposed of under UK GAAP and relating to such grants are recognised over the future vesting period.
The majority of the difference arises from the differing treatment of goodwill.
h Capitalisation of interest Under UK GAAP interest expense is not capitalised, whereas under e Inventory US GAAP, the estimated amount of interest expense incurred while Under UK GAAP, inventory is stated at the lower of cost, determined on constructing major projects is included in fixed assets and amortised a first-in first-out FIFO basis, and net realisable value.
The last-in firstover the estimated useful lives of the related assets.
out LIFO method is prohibited.
i Deferred income tax Under US GAAP, inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market value.
In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, deferred tax is provided Tomkins adopts the LIFO method for determining the cost of inventory in full on all liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent for a number of its US subsidiaries.
it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable f Pension costs profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, pension costs are accounted can be deducted and for this purpose Tomkins considers only future for in accordance with UK Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No.
periods for which forecasts are prepared.
Under US GAAP, deferred taxes 24 Accounting for Pension Costs, with costs being charged to income are provided for all temporary differences on a full asset and liability basis.
over employees estimated working lives.
Under US GAAP, pension costs A valuation allowance is established in respect of those deferred tax assets are determined in accordance with the requirements of SFAS No.
87 where it is more likely than not that some portion will not be realised.
Employers Accounting for Pensions and SFAS No.
88 Employers The look-forward period is not limited to the period for which forecasts Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension are prepared.
Plans and for Termination Benefits.
Key differences between the UK and US GAAP figures arise from the requirement to use different methods and assumptions for valuing scheme assets and a different method of amortising surpluses or deficits.
60 Reconciliation to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America continued DESCRIPTION OF DIFFERENCES FROM ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES may be separately highlighted on the face of the profit and loss account.
GENERALLY ACCEPTED IN THE UNITED KINGDOM CONTINUED Under US GAAP, the items described above are included in operating income.
Items that form part of operating activities and are significant in j Derivative instruments size or nature may be separately highlighted on the face of the profit and Tomkins has entered into derivative financial instrument contracts in order loss account or in the accompanying notes.
to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
Under UK GAAP, where there are derivative instruments that qualify as Discontinued operations a hedge, gains and losses are deferred and recognised in the profit and Under UK GAAP discontinued operations are defined as those where the loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of assets and sale or termination is completed either in the period or before the earlier liabilities, only when the hedged transaction has itself settled and been of three months after the year-end or the date of approval of the financial reflected in the Groups accounts.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted statements.
The disposal must have a material effect on the nature of for as a hedge, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting operations resulting from its withdrawal from a particular market or from profit or loss recognised at that time.
Derivatives entered into to hedge a material reduction in turnover from continuing markets.
Sales and the net investment in overseas entities are recorded directly to operating profit are disclosed separately on the face of the profit and loss shareholders equity.
Under US GAAP, derivative instruments are not account.
Assets and liabilities are not separately distinguished.
Under US regarded as hedges and any unrealised gains or losses arising at the period GAAP, the results of a component of an entity that has been disposed of or end are taken to income.
Derivatives entered into to hedge the net is classified as held for sale are separately reported in a single caption.
investment in overseas entities do not qualify as a hedge under US GAAP Furthermore, the assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held and any gains or losses are charged to the income statement.
for sale are presented separately in the balance sheet.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, restructuring costs are The consolidated statement of cash flow prepared under UK GAAP recognised when there is an unavoidable obligation as a result of a past presents substantially the same information as that required under US event and a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
Cash flow under UK GAAP represents increases or decreases in GAAP, restructuring costs and one-time termination benefits are generally cash, which comprises cash in hand, deposits repayable on demand recognised as incurred.
Under US GAAP, cash flow represents increases or l Dividends decreases in Cash and Cash Equivalents, which includes short-term, In Tomkins consolidated financial statements, ordinary dividends are highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three provided for in the period in respect of which they are proposed on the months, and excludes overdrafts.
basis of the recommendation made by the Directors.
Under US GAAP, Under UK GAAP, cash flows are presented separately for operating ordinary dividends are not provided for until formally declared.
activities, returns on investment and servicing of finance, taxation, capital m Earnings per share expenditure and financial investment, acquisitions and disposals, equity The earnings per share calculated under UK GAAP does not include the dividends, management of liquid resources and financing activities.
Under gain arising on the redemption of the redeemable convertible cumulative US GAAP, only three categories of cash flow activity are presented, being preference shares.
Under US GAAP, this gain is included in the net earnings cash flows relating to operating activities, investing activities and financing available to common shareholders in the calculation of earnings per share.
Cash flows from taxation and returns on investments and servicing of finance are, with the exception of servicing of shareholder PRESENTATION AND CLASSIFICATION DIFFERENCES finance, included as operating.
In addition to the recognition and measurement differences between UK and US GAAP there are a number of differences in the manner in which amounts are presented and classified in the accounts.
The principal presentation and classification differences are summarised below: 1.
BALANCE SHEET AND PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT PRESENTATION General The format of a balance sheet prepared in accordance with UK GAAP differs in certain respects from US GAAP.
UK GAAP requires assets to be presented in ascending order of liquidity in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, whereas under US GAAP assets are presented in descending order of liquidity.
In addition, current assets under UK GAAP include amounts that fall due after more than one year, whereas under US GAAP, such assets are classified as non-current assets.
Pensions Under UK GAAP, assets and liabilities relating to different plans are not offset in presentation.
Under US GAAP, assets and liabilities of different plans are offset in presentation.
Exceptional items UK GAAP requires profits and losses in relation to the disposal of fixed assets to be shown separately on the face of the profit and loss account below operating profit.
In addition, items that result from the ongoing activities of the business but are significant because of their size or nature Directors Report and Accounts 2004 61
