Principal accounting policies Accounting convention Finance leases The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention Assets held under leases which confer rights and obligations similar to and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
those attaching to owned assets are capitalised at fair value as tangible fixed assets and the corresponding liability to pay rentals is shown net of Basis of consolidation interest in the accounts as obligations under finance leases.
The capitalised The accounts include the results of all subsidiary undertakings values of the assets are written off on the straight-line basis over the subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are shorter of the period of the lease or the useful life of the asset concerned.
consolidated for the periods from the effective dates of acquisition The interest element of the lease payments is allocated so as to produce or to the effective dates of sale.
a constant periodic rate of charge.
Accounting period Investments The accounts are for the 364 days ended 1 January 2005.
The comparative Shares in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
figures are for the 368 days ended 3 January 2004.
An associated undertaking associate is an investment in which the Foreign currencies Group has substantial long-term minority equity interest and in which it Trading results denominated in foreign currencies are translated into participates in commercial and financial policy decisions.
The consolidated sterling at the average rates of exchange ruling throughout the year.
profit and loss account includes the Groups share of the results of Assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling associates.
Investments in associates, all of which were acquired before at the balance sheet date, or at composite rates specified in related 2 May 1998, are incorporated in the consolidated balance sheet at cost, less forward contracts.
goodwill written off, plus the Groups share of post-acquisition reserves.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of the opening net Other investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
assets of foreign subsidiaries, the translation of foreign subsidiaries profit Stock and loss accounts from average or composite rates to closing rates and Stock is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value with due from transactions executed solely for the purpose of hedging foreign allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Net realisable value currency translation exposure are taken to reserves.
Other exchange is the estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell.
Work in differences are taken to the profit and loss account when they arise.
progress, finished goods and goods held for resale include an appropriate Derivative financial instruments proportion of overhead expense.
Derivative financial instruments are held to reduce exposure to Long-term contracts are valued at cost plus attributable profit less foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
None are held for provisions for foreseeable loss.
If the outcome of a contract can be assessed speculative purposes.
with reasonable certainty, profit is taken by the percentage of completion To qualify as a hedge, a financial instrument must be related to actual method, otherwise profit is taken at the conclusion of each contract.
foreign currency assets or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
It must Certain commodities used by operating companies are purchased or sold involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and by way of forward contracts in order to fix the purchase price of the must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the underlying raw material or product.
Where such an arrangement exists, Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts are commodities are accounted for at the cost fixed by the forward contract.
deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when the hedged transaction Own shares has itself been reflected in the Groups accounts.
Own shares deducted in arriving at shareholders funds represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired by ESOP trusts in connection If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example, with the Groups employee share schemes.
because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
Goodwill Goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair values Fixed assets attributed to the net assets at acquisition, is now capitalised and is being Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any amortised over its useful economic life, which is usually expected not to provision for impairment.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or before 2 May 1998 was Depreciation of tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land and assets charged directly to reserves.
The profit or loss on disposal or closure of a under construction, is provided on the straight-line basis over anticipated business includes any attributable goodwill previously charged to reserves.
useful lives: Turnover Freehold buildings and long leasehold Ten to fifty years Turnover comprises sales in the ordinary course of business to external land and buildings customers for goods supplied and despatched and services provided, Short leasehold land and buildings Length of lease exclusive of sales related taxes.
Plant, equipment and vehicles Two to twenty years 28 Principal accounting policies continued Research and development Expenditure on research and development and on patents and trademarks is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on the straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Employee share schemes With the exception of awards made under SAYE option schemes in respect of which no cost is recognised, the cost of awards made under the Groups share based compensation schemes is based on the intrinsic value of the awards and is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period to which the employees performance relates.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The costs of pension plans and other post-retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the costs over the employees' working lives with the Group.
As permitted by the transitional arrangements of Financial Reporting Standard No.
17 Retirement benefits FRS 17 the Group has elected to defer its implementation.
The disclosures required under the transitional arrangements are set out in note 26.
Government grants Government grants relating to tangible fixed assets are treated as deferred income and credited to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the anticipated useful lives of the assets to which the grants relate.
Other grants are credited to the profit and loss account when they are received.
Tax The tax charge is based on the profit for the year and takes into account tax deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for tax and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is regarded that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
