qxd 24 11 2004 18:11 Page 59 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the Company will be held at the Companys premises at Thorpe Way, Grove Park, Enderby, Leicestershire LE19 1SU on 11 January 2005 at 10.30am.
Three of the resolutions are to be taken at this years Annual General Meeting as special business.
By way of explanation of these and certain of the other resolutions: Ordinary business Resolution 2 Final dividend A final dividend of 6.00 pence per Ordinary Share is recommended by the Directors for payment to shareholders on the register of members of the Company at the close of business on 14 January 2005.
Subject to approval by the Ordinary Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 31 January 2005.
An interim dividend of 2.00 pence per Ordinary Share was paid on 30 June 2004.
This gives a total dividend level of 8.00 pence per Ordinary Share for the 53 week period to 2 October 2004.
Resolutions 3 and 4 Re-election of Directors WA McIntosh and VH Watson are the Directors retiring by rotation this year and they offer themselves for re-election.
All members of the Board of Directors submit themselves for re-election at least every three years with the exception of VH Watson who at the age of 76 retires and offers himself for re-election annually.
Brief biographical details about the Directors standing for re-election appear on page 19 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Special business Resolutions 7 and 8 Appointment of authority to issue shares and the disapplication of statutory rights of pre-emption Resolution 7: The right of the Directors to allot further shares in the capital of the Company requires in most cases the prior authorisation of the shareholders in general meeting under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
Resolution 7 will be put to members as special business to authorise the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 1,885,987 out of the Companys unissued share capital representing approximately 33.3% of the Companys current issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
The Company holds 407,800 Ordinary Shares in treasury representing approximately 0.18% of the Companys current issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising the authority to allot further shares.
The authority shall expire immediately following the Annual General Meeting next following the resolution or, if earlier, 15 months following the resolution being passed.
Resolution 8: Will seek to obtain power under Section 95 of the Act to enable the Directors to allot, for cash, shares with an aggregate nominal value of 283,181 equal to approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share capital without being required first to offer such securities to existing shareholders.
The Company will thereby be given greater flexibility when considering future opportunities but the interests of existing shareholders will be protected as, except in the case of a rights issue or the allotment of shares under the Companys share option schemes, the Directors have no present intention to allot any part of the unissued share capital of the Company or, without the prior approval of the Company in general meeting, to make any issue which would effectively alter the control of the Company or the nature of its business.
This authority will expire immediately following the Annual General Meeting next following the resolution or, if earlier, 15 months following the resolution being passed.
Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 59 WRSSVBDU BKLUHV SGI 0 TOP arb04.
qxd 24 11 2004 18:11 Page 60 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Special business continued Resolution 9 Authority to purchase Ordinary Shares At the Annual General Meeting, Ordinary Shareholders are being invited under Resolution 9 to grant authority to the Company to make market purchases of its Ordinary Shares.
It is proposed such authority shall expire on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2006 or twelve months from the date of this resolution, if earlier.
This authority will be limited to the purchase of not more than 14.9% of the Ordinary Shares currently in issue.
This represents the maximum amount of Ordinary Share capital in issue which is permitted before tender or partial offer to all shareholders is required to be made to perform any share buy-back.
The maximum price payable under this authority will be 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of an Ordinary Share for the five business days before the relevant purchase and the minimum price will be 2.5p per Ordinary Share.
In considering whether or not to purchase Ordinary Shares under the market purchase authority, the Directors will take into account cash resources, the effect on gearing and other investment opportunities before exercising the authority.
In addition, the Company will only exercise the authority to make such a purchase in the market when the Directors consider it is in the best interests of the shareholders generally to do so and it should result in an increase in earnings per Ordinary Share.
The Directors current intention is that the authority sought by Resolution 9 shall be utilised in respect of the shares under these options.
As at 30 November 2004, there were options to subscribe for 3,629,047 equity shares outstanding under various schemes representing approximately 1.60% of the current issued share capital of the Company.
If the authority sought by Resolution 9 was exercised in full, the number of outstanding options would represent approximately 1.88% of the issued share capital following the repurchase of shares.
Topps Tiles Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 60 WRSSVBDU BKLUHV SGI
