TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the forty first Annual General Meeting of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Lords Conference and Banqueting Centre, St. Johns Wood Road, London, NW8 8QN on Wednesday 27 April 2005 at 11.45 a. m. for the following purposes: The resolutions Resolutions 1 to 10 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
Resolutions 11 to 13 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the Companys financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 together with the directors report, the directors remuneration report, the auditors report on those accounts and on the auditable part of the directors remuneration report.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 of 21.0 pence per ordinary share, payable to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 April 2005.
To appoint, pursuant to Article 71 of the Companys Articles of Association, John Coleman who was appointed as a director by the board on 10 February 2005.
Biographical details of John Coleman appear on page 31.
To appoint, pursuant to Article 71 of the Companys Articles of Association, Geoff Cooper who was appointed as a director by the board on 1 February 2005.
Biographical details of Geoff Cooper appear on page 30.
To re-appoint John Carter, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of John Carter appear on page 30.
To re-appoint Michael Dearden, who is retiring by rotation pursuant to Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Michael Dearden appear on page 31.
To re-appoint Peter Maydon, who is retiring by rotation, pursuant to Article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Biographical details of Peter Maydon appear on page 31.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
That the directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 set out on pages 39 to 47 be approved.
That the authority conferred on the directors by Article 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution, or if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and for that period the section 80 amount is 1,439,526.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10, the power conferred on the directors by Article 4 C of the Companys Articles of Association be and is hereby renewed for the period expiring fifteen months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and for that period the section 89 amount is 404,535.
That the amendments to the Companys Articles of Association as summarised in the directors report to shareholders on pages 49 to 53 and produced to the meeting initialled by the Chairman, for the purpose of identification, be approved.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares, provided that: a. the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 12,060,474 representing 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 4 March 2005 : b. the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value of 10 pence, exclusive of expenses: c. the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased, exclusive of expenses: d. this authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months from the date of passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: and e. the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
By order of the board, Andrew Pike Secretary Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, Northampton, NN5 7UG 4 March 2005 Registered in England No.
