TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Accounting policies For the year ended 31 December 2004 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Compliance with SSAP 19 Accounting for Investment Properties requires departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 relating to depreciation and an explanation of the departure is given in note f below.
The particular accounting policies adopted are: a Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention modified by the revaluation of certain freehold, leasehold and investment properties.
The group has adopted the transitional rules within FRS 15, which allow it to maintain the carrying value of the revalued assets excluding investment properties at their modified cost.
b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements consolidate the accounts of the company and all its subsidiaries.
The cost of acquisition represents the cash value of the consideration and or the market value of the shares issued on the date the offer became unconditional, plus expenses.
At the date of the acquisition an assessment is made of the fair value of the net assets.
It is this fair value, which is incorporated into the consolidated accounts.
Any excess cost over the fair value of net assets represents goodwill.
Prior to 1 January 1998, goodwill was written off directly to reserves as a matter of accounting policy.
From 1 January 1998, in accordance with FRS 10, goodwill is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful life, which the directors consider to be 20 years.
c Depreciation Depreciation is provided on tangible fixed assets on a straight-line basis to write off the cost or valuation of those assets over their estimated useful lives.
The principal rates of depreciation are: Freehold buildings Over the estimated useful life of the building Leasehold property Over the term of the lease Fixed plant and equipment 10% - 20% per annum 1 Mobile plant 12 2% per annum 1 Motor vehicles 12 2% - 20% per annum Computer installations 25% per annum Tools and plant for hire 25% per annum No depreciation is provided on freehold land or investment properties.
d Properties held for resale Properties held for resale are surplus to the groups requirements and are transferred to current assets and shown at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The appropriate transfer from revaluation reserves is offset against the value transferred from fixed assets.
Profits on the sale of properties are calculated by deducting the amounts at which they were stated in the balance sheet from sale proceeds net of expenses.
e Investments i In the balance sheet of the parent company, investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less amounts written off.
ii Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
f Investment properties In accordance with SSAP 19, investment properties are revalued at open market value annually by either independent professional third party valuers or the directors.
The aggregate surplus or deficit is transferred to revaluation reserve, subject to individual impairments in value.
No depreciation is provided in respect of investment properties.
However, the Companies Act 1985 requires that all properties should be depreciated.
This requirement conflicts with the generally accepted accounting principle set out in SSAP 19.
The directors consider that these properties are not held for trading use but are held for their investment potential.
It is therefore necessary to adopt SSAP 19 as to depreciate them would not give a true and fair view.
If this departure from the Act had not been made, the profit for the financial year would have been reduced by depreciation.
However, the amount of depreciation cannot reasonably be quantified because depreciation is only one of the many factors reflected in the annual valuation.
60 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC g Leases i Finance leases Assets held under finance leases and the related lease obligations are recorded in the balance sheet at the fair value of the leased assets at the inception of the leases.
The amounts by which the lease payments exceed the recorded lease obligations are treated as finance charges, which are amortised over each lease term to give a constant rate of charge on the balance of the obligation.
ii Operating leases Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal annual instalments over the periods of the leases.
h Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, with allowance being made for obsolete and slow moving items.
i Taxation Current UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued unless by the balance sheet date there is a binding agreement to sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on sale had been recognised in the financial statements.
Neither is deferred tax recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is measured at the standard tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
j Pension costs For defined benefit schemes, operating profit is charged with the cost of providing pension benefits earned by employees in the period.
The expected return on pension scheme assets less the interest on pension scheme liabilities is shown as a finance cost within the profit and loss account.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the period from the difference between actual and expected returns on pension scheme assets, experience gains and losses on pension scheme liabilities and the effects of changes in demographics and financial assumptions are included in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Recoverable pension scheme surpluses and pension scheme deficits and the associated deferred tax balances are recognised in full and included in the balance sheet.
k Financial instruments Derivative instruments utilised by the group are interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts.
The group does not enter into speculative derivative contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the group in line with the groups risk management policies.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are recognised as adjustments to interest expense over the periods of the contracts.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates ruling on the date of the transaction, unless matching forward foreign exchange contracts have been entered into, in which case the rate specified in the relevant contract is used.
At the balance sheet date, unhedged monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
