Pg 69 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies In the opinion of the directors, publishing rights and titles have an The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with indefinite economic life and are not, therefore, subject to annual applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards and have amortisation.
The carrying values of these assets are reviewed annually been applied on a consistent basis in the current and prior period.
and provision made for any impairment in the carrying value if required.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and associated undertakings is capitalised in the year of acquisition and amortised over the directors Basis of accounting assessment of its useful economic life up to a maximum of 20 years.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost The directors regard 20 years as a reasonable maximum for the useful convention as modied by revaluation of freehold properties.
economic life of goodwill, since it is difficult to make projections beyond this period.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Any goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to the implementation of statements of Trinity Mirror plc and all its subsidiaries.
FRS 10 was written-off to reserves as a matter of accounting policy, remains eliminated in reserves and will be charged or credited to the On the acquisition of a business, including an interest in an associated profit and loss account on the subsequent disposal of the business undertaking or a joint venture, fair values are attributed to the Groups to which it relates.
share of the identiable assets and liabilities of the business existing at the date of acquisition and reecting the conditions as at that date.
Tangible xed assets Freehold land and tangible xed assets not yet in use are not depreciated.
Where the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to Depreciation on assets qualifying for investment and regional such net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill and development grants is calculated on their full cost.
The basis and the capitalised in the balance sheet.
Prior to the implementation of FRS 10 annual rates of depreciation relating to tangible xed assets are: Goodwill and Intangible Assets, purchased goodwill was written-off directly to reserves and has not been reinstated.
i Freehold buildings and leasehold properties with over 50 years unexpired 2% straight line: Results of businesses are included in the consolidated profit and loss account up to the date of relinquishing control.
A business is classied ii Other leasehold buildings straight line over the life of the lease: as a discontinued operation if it is clearly distinguishable, has a material effect on the nature and focus of the Groups activities, represents a iii Plant, xtures and motor vehicles straight line at appropriate rates material reduction in the Groups operating facilities and either its sale with reference to the expected life of the individual classes of assets, or is completed or, if a termination, its former activities have ceased the lease term if shorter, resulting in the assets being written-off over permanently prior to the approval of the financial statements.
periods varying from 3 to 25 years.
The profit or loss on the disposal or closure of a previously acquired Investments business includes the attributable amount of any purchased goodwill Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost less provision for any relating to that business not previously charged through the profit and impairment.
Listed current asset investments are stated at the lower of loss account.
cost and market value, and other current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
The results and cash ows relating to a business are included in the consolidated profit and loss account and the consolidated cash ow Associated undertakings and joint ventures statement from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
Investments, excluding those classied as subsidiaries, are regarded as associated undertakings where the Group has a long-term interest Intangible xed assets in more than 20% of the equity and exercises a significant inuence over Intangible xed assets comprise goodwill and acquired publishing their affairs on a continuing basis, or as joint ventures where the Group rights and titles.
These are stated in the consolidated balance sheet as the Groups share of net assets after adjustment for goodwill or discount On the acquisition of a business, including an interest in an associated on acquisition.
undertaking, the cost of the investment is allocated between net tangible assets, goodwill and publishing rights and titles on a fair value basis.
The fair value of publishing rights and titles is assessed by the directors at the date of acquisition, based on discounted cash ow valuations.
