Pg 69 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies In the opinion of the directors, publishing rights and titles have an The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with indefinite economic life and are not, therefore, subject to annual applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards and have amortisation.
The carrying values of these assets are reviewed annually been applied on a consistent basis in the current and prior period.
and provision made for any impairment in the carrying value if required.
The particular accounting policies adopted are described below.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries and associated undertakings is capitalised in the year of acquisition and amortised over the directors Basis of accounting assessment of its useful economic life up to a maximum of 20 years.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost The directors regard 20 years as a reasonable maximum for the useful convention as modied by revaluation of freehold properties.
economic life of goodwill, since it is difficult to make projections beyond this period.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Any goodwill arising from acquisitions prior to the implementation of statements of Trinity Mirror plc and all its subsidiaries.
FRS 10 was written-off to reserves as a matter of accounting policy, remains eliminated in reserves and will be charged or credited to the On the acquisition of a business, including an interest in an associated profit and loss account on the subsequent disposal of the business undertaking or a joint venture, fair values are attributed to the Groups to which it relates.
share of the identiable assets and liabilities of the business existing at the date of acquisition and reecting the conditions as at that date.
Tangible xed assets Freehold land and tangible xed assets not yet in use are not depreciated.
Where the cost of acquisition exceeds the fair values attributable to Depreciation on assets qualifying for investment and regional such net assets, the difference is treated as purchased goodwill and development grants is calculated on their full cost.
The basis and the capitalised in the balance sheet.
Prior to the implementation of FRS 10 annual rates of depreciation relating to tangible xed assets are: Goodwill and Intangible Assets, purchased goodwill was written-off directly to reserves and has not been reinstated.
i Freehold buildings and leasehold properties with over 50 years unexpired 2% straight line: Results of businesses are included in the consolidated profit and loss account up to the date of relinquishing control.
A business is classied ii Other leasehold buildings straight line over the life of the lease: as a discontinued operation if it is clearly distinguishable, has a material effect on the nature and focus of the Groups activities, represents a iii Plant, xtures and motor vehicles straight line at appropriate rates material reduction in the Groups operating facilities and either its sale with reference to the expected life of the individual classes of assets, or is completed or, if a termination, its former activities have ceased the lease term if shorter, resulting in the assets being written-off over permanently prior to the approval of the financial statements.
periods varying from 3 to 25 years.
The profit or loss on the disposal or closure of a previously acquired Investments business includes the attributable amount of any purchased goodwill Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost less provision for any relating to that business not previously charged through the profit and impairment.
Listed current asset investments are stated at the lower of loss account.
cost and market value, and other current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
The results and cash ows relating to a business are included in the consolidated profit and loss account and the consolidated cash ow Associated undertakings and joint ventures statement from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
Investments, excluding those classied as subsidiaries, are regarded as associated undertakings where the Group has a long-term interest Intangible xed assets in more than 20% of the equity and exercises a significant inuence over Intangible xed assets comprise goodwill and acquired publishing their affairs on a continuing basis, or as joint ventures where the Group rights and titles.
These are stated in the consolidated balance sheet as the Groups share of net assets after adjustment for goodwill or discount On the acquisition of a business, including an interest in an associated on acquisition.
undertaking, the cost of the investment is allocated between net tangible assets, goodwill and publishing rights and titles on a fair value basis.
The fair value of publishing rights and titles is assessed by the directors at the date of acquisition, based on discounted cash ow valuations.
Pg 70 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued Any difference between the expected return on assets and that actually achieved is charged through the statement of total recognised gains Stocks and losses.
Similarly, any differences that arise from experience or Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
assumption changes are charged through the statement of total Cost represents materials, direct labour and production overheads.
Deferred taxation Capital instruments Deferred taxation is provided in full at the anticipated tax rates on timing Capital instruments are accounted for in accordance with the principles differences arising from the different treatment of items for accounting of FRS 4 Capital Instruments and are classied as equity share capital, and taxation purposes.
No provision is made for deferred tax on non-equity share capital, minority interest or debt as appropriate.
The Group has elected not to discount the deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Financial instruments Any premium or discount associated with the purchase of interest rate Foreign currency and foreign exchange instruments is amortised over the life of the Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the transaction.
Interest receipts and payments are accrued to match the average rate applicable to the accounting period.
Other exchange net income or cost with the related finance expense.
No amounts are differences are taken through the profit and loss account.
recognised in respect of future periods.
Gains and losses on early termination or on repayment of borrowings, to the extent that they Finance and operating leases are not replaced, are taken to the profit and loss account.
Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Employee Share Option Schemes Other leases are treated as operating leases.
Future instalments payable Shares held within Employee Share Option Schemes are dealt with under finance leases, net of finance charges, are included in creditors in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
with the corresponding asset values recorded in tangible xed assets and depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or their Grant income lease terms.
Payments are apportioned between the finance element, Investment and development grants received are credited to revenue which is charged to the profit and loss account as interest, and the over the life of the relevant tangible xed assets.
capital element, which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments.
Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss Turnover account in equal annual amounts over the period of the leases.
Turnover excludes inter-company sales, VAT and similar sales-based taxes.
Pension scheme arrangements dened benefit schemes Under FRS 17, pension scheme assets are measured using fair values.
Exceptional items Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method Exceptional items relating to profits or losses on the sale or and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate termination of an operation and costs of a fundamental reorganisation bond of equivalent term to the liability.
or restructuring, having a material effect on the nature and focus of the Group, are disclosed in accordance with FRS 3 Reporting Each pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or Financial Performance.
deficit is recognised in full, net of deferred tax, and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
The movement in the scheme surplus deficit Other items which are deemed to be exceptional by virtue of their size is split between operating and nancing items in the profit and loss are included under the statutory classication appropriate to their nature account and the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
but are separately disclosed on the face of the profit and loss account.
The full service cost of the pension provision is charged to operating Libel litigation profit.
The net impact of the unwinding of the discount rate on scheme Accruals are made for legal costs in respect of libel litigation in progress.
liabilities and the expected return of the scheme assets is charged Provision is made for estimated damages where it is judged probable credited to other finance costs.
that damages will be payable.
