Pg 102 Notes to the pro forma IFRS financial information 1 Presentation of pro forma financial information for Business combinations IFRS 3, Business Combinations 53 weeks ended 2 January 2005 The Group has elected not to restate business combinations recognised Trinity Mirror plc is preparing for the adoption of International Financial before the date of transition.
Reporting Standards IFRS as its primary accounting basis, following the adoption of Regulation No.
1606 2002 by the European Parliament Fair value as deemed cost IAS 16, Property, Plant and on 19 July 2002.
Equipment The Group has elected, where appropriate, to use fair value as the IFRS will apply for the first time in the Groups Annual Report for the deemed cost of plant, property and equipment on adoption of IFRS.
The first financial report prepared under IFRS will be for the 26 weeks ended 3 July 2005.
Employee Benets IAS 19, Employee Benets The Group has elected to recognise all cumulative actuarial gains and To facilitate the understanding of the change from UK GAAP to IFRS losses in relation to employee benefit schemes at the date of transition.
certain pro forma financial information in relation to the 53 weeks ended In subsequent periods all actuarial gains and losses will be recognised 2 January 2005 and the balance sheet as at 2 January 2005 has been in full in the period in which they occur in the Statement of Recognised included in this analysis for illustrative purposes only.
As set out in Income and Expense in accordance with the amendment to IAS 19, Note 3 Basis of Preparation below, this information does not reect issued on 16 December 2004. the full adoption of IFRS but has been presented to provide an indication of how the adoption of IFRS would have affected the Groups Financial Instruments IAS 32, Financial Instruments: Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Balance Sheet and Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39, Financial Consolidated Cash Flow Statement at the dates and for the period Instruments: Recognition and Measurement stated above.
The Group has elected to apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 from a transition date of 3 January 2005.
Therefore the proforma financial information in Reconciliations to assist the reader in understanding the nature and respect of financial instruments is presented in accordance with UK GAAP.
quantum of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS are presented on pages 97 to 101.
The Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 2 January Share-based Payments IFRS 2, Share-Based Payments 2005, the Consolidated Income Statement and Cash Flow Statement for The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 to all share-based awards the 53 week period ended 2 January 2005, as prepared on the basis set and options granted post 11 November 2002 but not vested at out in the Basis of Preparation, have been audited by Deloitte & Touche 3 January 2005.
Their report to the Board of directors of Trinity Mirror plc is set out on page 96.
3 Basis of Preparation The financial information presented on pages 97 to 101 has been Where principal accounting policies applied in respect of IFRS prepared based on the adoption of International Financial Reporting signicantly differ from UK GAAP details are set out below in Note 4.
Standards IFRS, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards 2 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Board IASB and its committees, as interpreted by any regulatory and Accounting Standards bodies relevant to the Group.
These are subject to ongoing amendment For the 53 weeks to 2 January 2005 the Group has applied the by the IASB and subsequent endorsement by the European Commission principles set out in IFRS 1, First-time Adoption of International Financial and are therefore subject to change.
As a result, information contained Reporting Standards IFRS 1, which has been applied in preparing this herein will need to be updated for any subsequent amendment to IFRS pro forma financial information.
required for first time adoption, or any new standards that the Group may elect to adopt early.
IFRS 1 sets out the procedures that must be followed when adopting IFRS for the first time as the basis for preparing the Groups consolidated Under the accounting statement on First-time Adoption, IFRS 1, the financial statements.
The Group is required to establish its IFRS Group has elected by way of an exemption to apply financial instrument accounting policies as at 1 January 2006 and, in general, apply these accounting under IAS 32 and IAS 39 from 3 January 2005.
In preparing retrospectively to determine the IFRS opening balance sheet at the date this financial information, the Group has assumed that the European of transition, 29 December 2003.
IFRS 1 provides a number of optional Commission will endorse the amendment to IAS 19, Employee Benets exemptions to this general principle.
The most significant of these Actuarial Gains and Losses, Group Plans and Disclosures IAS 19. are set out below, together with a description, in each case, of the exemption adopted by the Group.
