Pg 103 Notes to the pro forma IFRS financial information continued 4 Differences between IFRS and UK GAAP Holiday pay IAS 19, Employee benets IAS 19 requires the recording of a holiday pay accrual.
This has been Presentation IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements included in the opening IFRS Balance Sheet at 29 December 2003.
The presentation format of IFRS is different from UK GAAP and the As it is expected that this adjustment will be relatively stable in magnitude illustrative financial information herein is designed to assist the reader from one year to another, the position at 2 January 2005 is unchanged to understand these changes.
with no Income Statement impact for 2004.
Dividends IAS 10, Events After the Balance Sheet Date Goodwill IAS 38, Intangible Assets Dividends proposed will be disclosed as a Non-adjusting Event after the Under IAS 38 goodwill is not amortised.
Instead it is subject to an annual Balance Sheet Date under IAS 10, Events after the Balance Sheet Date.
An adjustment has been made to remove the goodwill Under IFRS dividends are not recognised as liabilities IAS 37, Provisions, amortisation charge.
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets until they are appropriately approved and are no longer at the discretion of the directors.
Accordingly Associates IAS 28, Investments in Associates the 2004 proposed dividend amount under UK GAAP is removed from IFRS requires the share of profit of Associate to be shown post tax the IFRS accounts.
Under UK GAAP this amount is shown before tax with the tax charge included as part of the Group tax charge.
Capitalised Leases IAS 17, Leases This standard has a wider scope than UK GAAP and has resulted 5 Presentation of financial information in a small number of short leasehold buildings being capitalised on The primary statements within the financial information contained on the Balance Sheet.
pages 97 to 101 have been presented substantially in accordance with IAS 1.
However, this format has been adapted to assist the reader and Employee Option and Performance Share Schemes IFRS 2, will, where necessary, be modied to take into account future guidance Share-based Payments and practice in the development of IFRS reporting.
All transactions within the scope of IFRS 2 are valued based on the fair value of the option or award at grant date and expensed to the Income Statement over the vesting period of the scheme.
Pension costs IAS 19, Employee Benets The main difference between IFRS and UK GAAP is the measurement of scheme assets.
The IFRS valuation is determined at bid rather than mid market price thus increasing the Groups pension scheme liabilities.
In addition, there is a presentational difference with the pension scheme liability now being shown gross of its deferred tax asset.
in collaboration with Lippa Pearce.
Trinity Mirror plc Registered Ofce: One Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5AP T: 020 7293 3000 F: 020 7293 3405 www.
