Business review Your Communications Installing telecoms systems in Manchester Enabling mobile business Sustaining progress Your Communications is a successful alliances with Business Serve and Siemens.
telecommunications business offering We also have an alliance with Vodafone, voice, mobile and data services to the which makes Your Communications one public sector and small to medium-sized of the largest independent mobile service corporate customers, predominantly in providers in the UK business sector.
the Midlands and north of England.
Business impacts Our market is characterised by aggressive Our objective is to sustain our progress.
Our sector is growing but is ercely competitive.
By participating in ongoing consolidation The new unied industry regulator Ofcom now, we are strengthening our position for was established during the year.
of our Calls & Lines product this year marks Business performance the culmination of significant work in lobbying In March, we announced the acquisition the regulator into giving UK business more of Manchester-based Eurocall for 42 million.
freedom when selecting their telecoms All of Eurocalls 15,000 customers and 137 supplier.
Launched a full six months ahead employees transferred to Your Communications.
of the competition, Calls & Lines represents the most powerful incentive yet for We met our major target this year, which companies across the UK to switch was to be a net cash contributor to the their telecoms business.
group on a post-tax basis, excluding the acquisition of Eurocall.
Turnover increased Corporate responsibility by 14.8 per cent in 2003 04 to 185.6 In the community, we have continued to million, as a result of the continued progress work closely with the Regional Broadband in increasing its proportion of higher value Consortium in north west England, to support business sales.
Operating losses were the North West Learning Grid which is bringing reduced by 14.9 per cent to 16.6 million.
broadband internet access to schools We were also free cash ow positive in the throughout the region.
Hugh Logan We have been working to increase our Managing director strategic alliances.
This year we developed United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 17
