Facts and gures Serving millions United Utilities provides services to Our non-regulated businesses are: millions throughout the UK and overseas.
United Utilities Contract Solutions We are the largest operators of water and Contract Solutions provides infrastructure wastewater systems in the UK, managing management services in competitive 1in5 networks serving ten million people in north markets, serving more than 11 million west England, most of Wales and parts of people.
It operates infrastructure networks households in the UK is Scotland and providing specialist services to internationally, generates renewable industry.
We are the UKs leading provider of energy and provides multi-utility contacted by us each year customer management services, handling services to industry.
201 million customer transactions each year.
Vertex We employ over 15,500 people.
Vertex is one of the largest business United Utilities has five businesses.
process outsourcing companies in Our two regulated businesses are: the UK.
It provides services to clients in the commercial, utility and government 2.94bn United Utilities Service Delivery sectors and has particular expertise in Service Delivery owns and operates the customer management.
Last year Vertex minutes of usage on our electricity distribution, water and wastewater handled 206 million inbound calls.
networks in north west England.
It manages telecommunications over 700 water and wastewater treatment Your Communications network works, 32,000 electricity sub-stations and Your Communications offers voice, mobile around 120,000 kilometres of pipes, sewers and data services to the public sector and and cables.
business customers throughout the UK.
It provides services both directly to end users United Utilities Customer Sales and to selected resellers through its Customer Sales manages our regulated wholesale channel.
customer base in north west England.
It is a major service provider in the competitive industrial water and wastewater market and is responsible for the relationship with 2.9 million household and business customers.
6 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 Our global operations Australia to Vertex clients and are providing We operate 12 water and two industrial consultancy services on Indias first major wastewater treatment plants in Australia, private sector water project.
Philippines Bulgaria We are helping to improve water and We operate, maintain and improve water wastewater services to the 3.4 million and wastewater services for a population of inhabitants of eastern Manila.
1.2 million in the capital, Soa.
Poland Canada We provide water and wastewater services We provide customer service expertise to to 300,000 people in the southern Polish city 1.2 million electricity customers and operate of Bielsko-Biala and nine neighbouring a long-term water strategy and efficiency communities.
programme for 800,000 customers in Ontario.
USA Estonia We have a debt recovery agency in Denver, We manage water and wastewater serving utility companies throughout the operations for the capital, Tallinn, serving United States.
India We have a contact centre near New Delhi, providing customer management services Our UK operations Regulated businesses Operational boundary regulated businesses United Utilities Service Delivery Operational boundary Welsh contract United Utilities Customer Sales Contract Solutions Vertex 1,300.7m Turnover Your Communications Main ofce locations 519.6m Operating profit 4,684 Employees Non-regulated businesses United Utilities Contract Solutions 446.9m Turnover 67.8m Operating profit 2,381 Employees Vertex 368.5m Turnover 25.1m Operating profit 7,746 Employees Your Communications 185.6m Turnover 16.6m Operating loss 709 Employees NOTE: Employee numbers stated on this page are full time equivalent and an average over the entire 2003 04 period.
Figures exclude contractors and agency staff.
154 people are employed by the group in other capacities.
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 7
