qxd 9 06 2004 17:44 Page b This report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations and business of the company.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about the companys beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, Stakeholder Report 2004 estimates, potential, reasonably possible and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
These statements are based on current plans, assumptions, estimates and projections which may be signicantly varied, and therefore investors should not rely on them.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and speak only as of the date they are made, and except as required by the rules of the UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Exchange plc, the company undertakes no obligation to update publicly any of them in the light of new information or future events.
Our Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
United Utilities PLC cautions investors that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statements.
These factors include: i the effect of, and changes in, regulation and government policy: ii the effects of competition and price pressures: iii the ability of the company to achieve cost savings Company and operational synergies: iv the ability of the company to service its future operations and capital requirements: v the timely development and acceptance of new products and services by the company: vi the effect of technological changes: and vii the companys success at managing the risks of the foregoing.
The company cautions that the foregoing list of important factors does not address all the factors that could cause the results to differ materially.
The financial information set out in this stakeholder report does not 04 constitute the companys statutory accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004 but is derived from those accounts.
The statutory accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004 contained an unqualified audit report.
The statutory accounts were despatched to shareholders on 18 June 2004 and will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies following the companys annual general meeting to be held on 30 July 2004.
In this report: our performance and results the customers view facts and gures Cover image: Dawson House Graduate recruit, Nina Shabanzadeh Warrington WA5 3LW managing our impacts with one of our electricity maintenance Telephone 01925 237000 teams at Little Hayeld, Derbyshire.
