Business review Customer Sales Our water catchment land at Rivington Improving coastal and inland bathing waters Improving service United Utilities Customer Sales is experienced since 2000 that were not responsible for our regulated customer allowed in the current five-year regulatory base of 2.9 million domestic households period.
This is in addition to the allowed and business premises in north west 4.5 per cent real price rise which was set at England.
It is also a provider of water the last price review and it brings our total and wastewater services in the allowed real price increase to 8.9 per cent competitive industrial market.
for the year from April 2004 to March 2005.
Our objectives are to maintain and improve We also delivered major improvements in our levels of customer service: to maximise customer service on our regulatory targets.
profitability and cash ow: and to manage our 93.3 per cent of calls were answered within reputation and inuence the regulatory agenda.
30 seconds and 99.1 per cent of bill-related queries were responded to within five days.
A key task is to ensure that the forthcoming price review produces a balanced outcome Throughout the year we achieved real that is fair to all stakeholders.
improvements in managing cash and we are gradually solving the problems associated During the months ahead, we need to make sure that all customers understand the reasons why bills are rising and we have active programmes to make sure this is clearly communicated.
Drinking water quality Business performance Through the regulatory process this year, we successfully secured additional income for the business.
In December 2003, we 99.72% received Ofwats final decision on our Interim Determination of K IDoK application, which 2003: 99.49% allows us to increase real prices by a further 4.4 per cent next year.
The increase reects Operational performance index OPI Bob Armstrong Managing director actual additional costs the company has score for calendar year 2003 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 11 Customer Sales continued The customer New customer billing programme, launched in March 2004 with long-standing customer debt.
The a decision we fully support since we believe Ive heard that my the costs would outweigh the potential payment card system that we introduced last benets to customers.
However, we welcome year has performed well.
We now have water bill will be competition for business customers in 360,000 customers on instalment plans plus water services as a driver for efficiency and a further 176,000 cards in issue.
innovation and we are key players in industry We launched our new customer billing working groups to develop the competitive Where exactly will programme in March 2004 and will roll out framework.
There is a need for a wellour new billing system to all customers managed process to deliver competition my money be going?
Lisa Taylor We made improvements to our meter Water customer The Water Act also set out a new obligation reading service for commercial and for water companies to uoridate supplies domestic customers this year, which when requested by a Strategic Health improved service, increased cash flow, Authority.
We welcome the clarification of the and reduced cost.
The rapid growth in the legal position, which rightly removes water As part of the five-yearly review of number of water meters meant that the companies from decisions on public health.
water company investment plans, weve routes our meter readers followed had Corporate responsibility asked the regulator Ofwat to increase become unmanageable.
This led to delayed One result of the current price review is bills.
This is needed to help pay for a billing and poor service for customers and that prices are likely to rise substantially 3.2 billion programme of service affected our cash ow.
Our concerns match those improvements and investment to satisfy In collaboration with Vertex, we introduced expressed generally about the affordability tougher regulations for drinking water route smoothing to ensure that the same of water bills, particularly for low income quality and new European requirements households.
Our approach has been to ensure number of meters are read each week: and to safeguard the environment.
that we have robust processes in place to route realignment, to make sure that meter manage issues of debt in a way that is fair and readers follow the most logical routes.
See page ten for more information on effective for the business.
We have developed our water and wastewater business Business impacts a range of initiatives to assist vulnerable plan for 2005-10.
The Water Act 2003 is now in place.
This customers, providing support through a rules out competition in the domestic market, special tariff, an arrears allowance scheme where we match pound for pound the sums paid and money advice services.
We have also taken a leading role in the Properties affected by Debt Focus Group of Water UK, an industrywide body, looking at ways to improve the supply interruptions Department for Work & Pensions Water Direct scheme.
0.08% Target: 0.23% For more information about our customer initiatives please visit our web site.
Ofwat key performance indicator www.
com 12 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004
