Future challenges Managing water and wastewater systems throughout the UK Corporate responsibility United Utilities core skills are price prole is weighted towards higher Our approach to corporate responsibility is infrastructure and business process prices at the beginning of the five-year to develop strong policies and to embed them management.
This is designed to maintain throughout the group.
We are committed the companys credit quality and deliver By infrastructure management we to managing the impacts of our activities.
the lowest overall cost to customers over mean the running, maintenance and the period as a whole.
We recognise the need for sustainable improvement of operational networks and development.
By this we mean long-lasting assets.
Business process management In order to fund our investment, we development which protects and enhances refers to the functions that support estimate that customer bills may need the environment, conserves natural resources, business operations, such as the to increase by an average of 7.8 per cent maintains strong economic growth and management of customers.
ahead of retail price ination each year.
supports the communities we serve.
United Utilities two stage rights issue, These skills are taken from our regulated together with a number of other We actively benchmark our performance electricity distribution and water businesses contributing factors, has signicantly against that of our peers.
Results are and applied to competitive markets.
A full reduced the probable impact of the pleasing and clearly position United Utilities breakdown of our businesses and their investment programme on customer as one of the leading companies in this area, operations is included within this report.
bills, reducing the proposed average within the UK.
Regulated businesses annual increase by around a third Our employees are key to our success and For our regulated businesses the key compared to the draft business plan.
we are committed to their development.
events are the forthcoming regulatory price For the electricity business, our final Work is underway for the next stage of UCan reviews.
Final regulatory determinations business plan has been submitted our culture change programme and its for both water and electricity distribution to Ofgem for the 2005-10 period.
This transition to becoming an integral part are expected towards the end of 2004. outlines an investment programme of the way we do business.
We are now For the water business, our draft business of 642 million to preserve the current concentrating on developing leaders within plan was submitted to Ofwat, the water high quality of supply, to keep fault rates the organisation, whilst continuing to regulator, in August 2003.
This proposed stable and to maintain existing levels enhance the capability of all of our people.
a capital investment programme of of service, security and network risk.
3.8 billion in the five-year period April A further 105 million investment is 2005 to March 2010.
This was based on proposed to allow renewable energy a package of maintaining existing services generators to be connected to the region.
to customers, meeting higher drinking As a result of our proposed investment, water and environmental quality standards we anticipate an average real increase in and targeting customers expressed customer bills of five per cent per annum.
John Roberts preferences for service improvements.
Non-regulated businesses Chief executive The timetable of the regulatory review Our non-regulated businesses offer the required us to submit our final business group the opportunity for sustainable and plan in April 2004.
Changes to guidance secure growth.
Both Vertex and Contract on the scope and timing of environmental Solutions are recognised as leading improvements from the Environment players in their sectors within the UK Agency and government mean that We treat the equivalent of and are expanding internationally.
Your our proposed capital programme was Communications continues to progress reduced to 3.2 billion at 2002 03 prices in a difficult market.
from the level proposed in our draft plan.
Based on contracts already secured and We remain rmly focused on achieving opportunities were currently pursuing, we 93,000 the right outcome from the reviews for are confident that these businesses offer all of our stakeholders.
Our proposed good growth prospects.
glasses of water a second in north west England United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 5
