Business review Vertex Our customer service representatives A transformation consultant meets with a client Transforming business Vertex is one of the UKs leading providers client relationships, worth a total of over of business process outsourcing.
We secured a new contract we may not be a household name, our extension for the provision of services to clients including Marks & Spencer, the Department for Work & Pensions with Vodafone and the Department for Work & our partners Atos Origin.
We extended our Pensions are.
existing contract with Lloyds TSB and also won major new business with existing client Business process outsourcing means Marks & Spencer.
managing and often transforming the processes that support our clients Sales increased by 19.8 per cent to 368.5 businesses, such as human resources, million in 2003 04, predominantly due to the finance and accounting.
first full year impact of the contracts with the Department for Works & Pensions and Our markets are local and central Westminster City Council.
Operating profit government, the UK service sector and the has improved by 33.5 per cent to 25.1 utilities sectors in the UK and North America.
million, reecting the effect of increased A 2003 survey into our sector by market external contract activity and improved researchers Ovum Holway, identied Vertex margins.
Operating margin improved to as the fourth largest business process 6.8 per cent in 2003 04, from 6.1 per cent outsourcing company in the UK.
The expertise During the year we signed a nine-year we have developed in improving customer contract with Powergen, replacing our service and reducing back-ofce cost in the previous ten-year contract with TXU Europe, utility sector is much in demand in the public whom Powergen acquired in October 2002. sector.
We are currently pitching for around This contract consolidates our relationship.
1 billion worth of contracts in the UK local and central government sector, all of which We established a small North American team, are due to be awarded during 2004 05. based in New York, who will be targeting the utility sector.
This is one of our key target Business performance Tom Drury markets.
We already operate one contract This year was principally one of contract Managing director renewals, extending and building on existing in North America, providing customer United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 15 Vertex continued The business journalist Our Westminster contact centre management services for the Canadian utility We have an active and robust corporate Most of United Hydro One, which is progressing well.
To governance programme to manage the strengthen our offering in preparation for strategic and tactical risks which could Utilities activities are further contract opportunities, we acquired impact the business.
These are clearly First Revenue Assurance, a debt collection identied and monitored on a regular basis.
in the north west of agency based in Denver.
How can Last year, we announced that Vertex had Business impacts obtained a contact centre in India as part Market demand for business process you maintain that of its acquisition of 7C.
At Vertex, our contact outsourcing continues to grow and there is centre in India forms one part of our total a trend towards organisations outsourcing you are a national delivery mix.
It complements our UK operations more than one part of their business.
We are and enables us to offer alternative solutions continuing to develop our transformational company?
We are growing in both India skills and services in line with market Michael Taylor and the UK.
To meet our clients demands, we Editor of North West Business Insider have established an in-house team of some Balancing the interests of our stakeholders is 600 technology and change consultants an important part of the way we do business.
to manage these complex and large scale Twice a year an independent organisation transformation programmes that add asks our clients about their satisfaction with We are a national company.
In fact, over value for both the client and ourselves.
our service, the results of which have shown half our employees now work outside a demonstrable improvement over the year.
For example, we In 2003 we received recognition from have over 1,200 employees in Scotland management consultants Frost & Sullivan Our employees are vital in delivering the and over 1,300 in Wales.
Vertexs with an award for market penetration services we provide for our clients.
The operations stretch from London to response rate in our employee survey leadership, presented each year to the northern Scotland.
We also have this year improved following a significant company demonstrating excellence in operations overseas.
Nonetheless, the programme of employee involvement.
Our capturing market share within their industry.
employees have also become involved in north west remains important for us and Continuing growth led to our largest ever many fund raising and community projects.
is home to our corporate headquarters.
We now operate in 30 Vertex received recognition in a number UK locations, as well as in India, the US of key industry awards in 2003.
included a national business leadership award from the European Foundation for Quality Management EFQM.
Operating margin 6.8% 2003: 6.1% For more information about all our businessesplease visit our web site.
Growth in Vertexs operating margin www.
com 16 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004
