Business review Service Delivery Maintaining the electricity distribution network Ennerdale water treatment works in Cumbria Increasing efficiency United Utilities Service Delivery owns to customers.
We cut levels of customer and operates the licensed electricity interruptions per 100 customers from 66.48 last year to 51.0, against a target of distribution, water and wastewater 56.4, and minutes lost per customer from networks in north west England.
Through good The business aims to create value through contingency planning and rapid response, the efficient management of its assets.
Its our teams were able to minimise the key objectives are to deliver our regulatory impact on customers of damage to the contracts: to be efficient by aligning our distribution network caused by winter storms.
resources in north west England: and, We improved our drinking water quality working closely with Customer Sales, to performance to 99.72 per cent on continue improving service for customers.
the Drinking Water Inspectorates water quality index, up from 99.49 per cent the Business performance previous year.
We had a successful year, improving water quality, wastewater compliance, electricity We also delivered a significant improvement distribution performance and delivering 1 in wastewater compliance.
This year we billion of capital investment our highest ever in a single year.
In water and wastewater, we manage a major ongoing capital investment programme, Customer satisfaction ensuring value for money for our customers whilst meeting all of our regulatory targets.
In electricity distribution, our asset replacement strategy focuses on stabilising fault rates, 4.42 out of 5 which we are reducing across most elements of our network.
2003: 4.26 In electricity distribution, we beat both our regulatory targets and our own internal Ofgem measure of customer satisfaction Charlie Cornish Managing director targets for providing continuous supplies with overall quality of telephone response 8 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 The community campaigner Our water mains replacement programme reduced our score on failing works per head To ensure that we continue to deliver higher What are you of population to 0.26 per cent from 12.12 per levels of performance between April 2005 and cent last year.
We did this by putting problem March 2010, we are working on new initiatives doing to minimise works into an intensive care programme, to improve efficiency and reduce cost.
These increasing our maintenance spend, operator include a change programme to ensure that disruption to local involvement and capital work.
In 2003 04, as we have the appropriate business processes, part of our capital investment programme, we organisation, systems and commercial communities when contracts in place and a realignment of delivered 29 continuous discharge and 219 intermittent discharge improvement projects.
operational strategy to deliver further efficiencies you carry out and improvements to scheduling systems.
In our regulated businesses, turnover construction works?
The long, dry summer of 2003 had an increased by 5.7 per cent to 1,300.7 million Debra Murphy impact on water supply and demand.
in 2003 04, largely due to a real increase of Community campaigner We managed our water resources in an four per cent in water and wastewater prices.
innovative, sustainable and responsible way Operating profit increased by 3.3 per cent to maintain reservoirs at acceptable levels.
to 519.6 million in 2003 04, reecting the With the higher rainfall in the winter, reservoir increase in turnover offset by a number levels have now recovered without the need We are acutely aware of local concerns of factors, principally higher operating to restrict water use.
when we have to carry out essential costs and depreciation mainly due to works.
We try to engage with local the expanding asset base.
Our contractors continue to be of strategic communities before work commences importance.
During the last two years we Our five-year, 3.6 billion capital investment to explain why we need to do the work have entered into a number of commercial programme represents a quarter of all the and how we intend to minimise any arrangements with construction companies money being spent in England and Wales disruption this may cause.
Whenever we and are developing strategic partnerships on improving the water, wastewater and can, we plan our projects around other with them.
We delivered works in the vicinity, school holidays 1,013.9 million worth of our programme Corporate responsibility and rush hours.
Our capital investment programme is this year.
864.2 million of this was spent on delivering environmental improvements in water and wastewater and 149.7 million on north west England.
In partnership with our contractors, we delivered all of our regulatory outputs during the year.
Business impacts The biggest potential impacts on the business Properties affected by continue to be the two regulatory price reviews, low water pressure which will conclude in April 2005.
It is essential that we achieve balanced outcomes, which are fair to all of our stakeholders.
United Utilities has a major commitment to ongoing discussions with our regulators, Ofgem and 0.03% Ofwat, the Environment Agency and others to translate the anticipated outputs and For more information on our capital Target: 0.06% quality drivers into tangible and achievable improvement programme please visit our web site.
Ofwat key performance indicator United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 9 Service Delivery continued The employee Egremont UID scheme part of our 260m investment in environmental improvements in 2003 04 works and hundreds of sewer overows During the year, generation and use of Will United Utilities have been upgraded, resulting in a significant renewable energy within the business improvement to river and bathing water increased by over 23 per cent and the offer its employees quality throughout the region.
proportion of wastewater sludge sent to landll was reduced to nearly six per cent.
the right balance In parallel, the number of prosecutions for environmental offences has fallen from 29 We won recognition for our work to improve between rewards to eight.
We achieved this by working closely the worst performing areas of our electricity with the Environment Agency, highlighting the network in this years Utility Industry and opportunities?
The award focuses reduction in pollution incidents as a particular Nina Shabanzadeh on the work we have done to improve target area.
We have more work to do to Graduate recruit now internal customer service.
consolidate and build on these improvements.
communications executive On health and safety, we have implemented We also increased our investment in odour a major programme of initiatives to reduce control systems, successfully addressing an risks.
This helped us achieve a four star issue that had become of growing concern We want to encourage everyone to rating and commendation in the first ever for some customers.
achieve their full potential and feel British Safety Council audit of our policies, As part of our capital works we look supported and motivated to make procedures and practices.
We provide for innovative ways to minimise our environmental impacts.
For example, a broad range of opportunities across a new process was developed to maximise our businesses and promote on merit.
re-use of aggregate when laying pipes.
On Our aim is to provide competitive one project alone, this saved 10,000 cubic rewards to attract and retain metres of aggregate and 2,000 lorry journeys.
Since 2001, we have invested heavily to improve the culture of our company.
Water and wastewater business plan 2005-10 Our final business plan for water and This investment will wastewater services has been submitted involve improving water to Ofwat.
This details our proposed future quality in 1,900 kilometres investment plan.
of river, 75 wastewater treatment works serving Our proposal is to spend: 5.2 million people and cleaning or 1.5 billion on delivering reliable and renewing 3,000 kilometres secure water and wastewater services of water mains.
200 million on solving the concerns of our customers, including sewer ooding and managing odours A copy of our final business plan is 1.5 billion meeting higher drinking water available on request or from our web site.
For more information about our graduate and environmental standards www.
com scheme please visit our web site.
com 10 United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004
