Business review Contract Solutions Our new Scottish Water Solutions contract MacArthur water treatment works in Australia Expert innovation United Utilities Contract Solutions Scottish Water Solutions, the Welsh Water applies the groups core infrastructure contract, our International business and our management expertise to competitive Industrial business which offers waste markets.
It operates throughout the management and electricity services UK and in key target markets overseas, to industry.
providing services to 11 million people.
A major achievement this year was the By applying our core skills to competitive establishment of Scottish Water Solutions.
markets, we seek to win new business This joint venture has already delivered 160 without materially exposing the group to million of Scottish Waters capital programme, increased risk.
which is expected to total around 1.1 billion over the contract life.
Business performance Contract Solutions operates in three market In Industrial, we expanded our services to sectors: Operations Management, Green include electricity and acquired two major Energy and Networks.
Contract Solutions plants to deal with more difficult liquid and is now the leading utility infrastructure chemical wastes.
We now operate over management outsourcing business in the UK.
700 contracts in total, on sites from Turnover increased by 12.5 per cent to supermarkets to airports.
446.9 million in 2003 04, largely due to the Our contract with Dwr Cymru Welsh Water impact of the new Scottish Water contract has continued its excellent performance.
In and the first full year of the British Gas particular, Welsh Water has risen from near Trading contract.
Operating profit increased the bottom of the Ofwat Operational by 15.3 per cent to 67.8 million in 2003 04, Performance league tables to second reecting the increasing maturity of our position during the contract period.
contracts, the impact of the Scottish Water contract and our increased shareholding in Internationally, we have increased our our European concessions.
shareholdings in the Philippines and some of our European concessions.
In Europe, we Operations Management develops and have formed a joint-venture partnership with operates infrastructure management Gordon Waters the European Bank for Reconstruction and Managing director contracts in selected markets.
It includes United Utilities Stakeholder Report 2004 13 Contract Solutions continued The shareholder Hatton wastewater treatment works near Dundee Development EBRD which gives us a strong Corporate responsibility Can I be assured that strategic partner and a platform for further In Wales, we help to fund a youth offender liaison programme in Cardiff and partner growth.
In South Australia, work has started my investment is in Shelter Cymru in helping to combat the on the construction of a 7 million advanced problem of homelessness in Wales.
We also wastewater treatment plant.
safe hands, both now partner the Princes Trust in both Scotland Green Energy develops and operates and Wales.
We Geoff Hamilton Soyska Voda, our Bulgarian concession, operate more than 40 renewable energy Private shareholder is one of only six companies in the country projects throughout the UK.
Most of these to receive the good corporate practices are small-scale hydroelectric, landll and award of the United Nations Development mine gas schemes.
We are currently developing a number of We have a clear and consistent business The award acknowledges the successful wind farm schemes.
Scarweather Sands, implementation and promotion of socially strategy and have been successful in an offshore development in south Wales, and responsible practices, including recognition growing our non-regulated businesses.
Thorne, near Doncaster, are two of the largest.
in the eld of environment, for overall We are keeping our promise, made at attitude towards the problems of the the time of the rights issue, to maintain Networks provides multi-utility connections community and ecology, and for striking dividends in real terms until next year.
and metering to domestic, commercial and a safe balance between business and We will then make a decision on the industrial developers and utility suppliers.
dividend for the next review period.
also provide an energy efficiency service to What we will do is seek to maximise industry and local authorities.
Consultation is the key when it comes dividends consistent with our assessment to wind farms.
We hold public exhibitions Our metering and connections businesses of risk and our licence obligations.
for the local community and consult with up continue to grow.
We are the UK market to 70 organisations before we look at any leader in this area.
We also carry out a detailed with British Gas Trading is now approaching impact report which includes areas such envisaged volumes as the contract moves as wildlife, visual impact and noise.
out of its mobilisation phase.
Business impacts Our businesses serve different markets with different inuences.
In Green Energy, for example, planning and regulatory issues on distribution are key factors.
In liquid waste treatment we are dependent for growth on the application of new European legislation.
Increase in turnover A key issue as we grow is to recruit, retain and develop the right people.
We have a major focus on graduate recruitment and management training and have introduced sponsorship of undergraduate 12.5% For more investor relations students, which involves a job placement information please visit our web site.
