Whistleblowing arrangements However, during the year the composition of the Nominations During 2004 the Company has put in place a revised GroupCommittee and the Audit Committee has been changed to comply wide framework enabling employees to raise any concerns, with the new requirements of the Combined Code, in that as the arrangements for which are reviewed annually by the Audit from 25 May 2004 the Nominations Committee comprises a Committee to ensure their effectiveness.
The process has majority of independent non-executive Directors and the Audit been communicated to all employees across the Group and Committee comprises only independent non-executive Directors.
policy and procedures issued to management of all operating The reasons for non-compliance in each of the relevant areas units providing guidance on how they are expected to respond.
are explained within the review of the Companys application of Matters can be raised anonymously but employees are assured the principles of the Combined Code set out above.
In the areas that they will have protection under the policy.
of non-compliance the Directors believe that current policy is in the best interests of the Company.
Corporate governance statement The Board of Directors confirm that the Company has complied Going concern throughout the financial year with the majority of the provisions Under company law the Companys Directors are required set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The exceptions are: to consider whether it is appropriate to prepare Financial 1 the requirement that independent non-executive Directors Statements on the basis that the Company and the Group are excluding the Chairman should comprise not less than going concerns.
As part of its normal business practice the 50% of the Board: 2 the requirement that all members of Group prepares annual and longer-term plans and in reviewing the Remuneration Committee are independent non-executive this information the Companys Directors see no reason why the Directors: 3 the requirement that the Nominations Committee Company and the Group should not remain going concerns for should comprise a majority of independent non-executive the foreseeable future.
Therefore the Company and the Group Directors: 4 the requirement that all members of the Audit continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Committee should be independent non-executive Directors: Financial Statements.
5 the requirement that a Senior Independent Director be nominated: and 6 the requirement that the non-executive Signed on behalf of the Board Directors meet without the Chairman to appraise the Judith Nicholson Chairmans performance.
Company Secretary 21 March 2005 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to accuracy the financial position of the Company and which prepare Financial Statements for each financial period which enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company with the Companies Acts 1985. and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps profit or loss for the financial period.
as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the The Directors consider that in preparing the Financial Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Statements on pages 35 to 65 the Company has used The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied, with of the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the the exception of the application of UITF 38 as described preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may on page 39, and supported by reasonable and prudent differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Directors are required to prepare Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company that the Company will continue in business.
keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 25
