Statement of Accounting Policies Basis of preparation As a significant proportion of the Groups revenues, costs, assets and funding arise in euros, the Financial Statements are presented in both euro and sterling.
The Companys own balance sheet and related notes continue to be reported in sterling.
Basis of accounting and principal accounting policies The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
A summary of the principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the year and preceding year except for the treatment of own shares, is set out below.
Where necessary, certain comparatives have been reclassied and repositioned for consistency with the disclosure at 31 December 2004.
Own shares are held on the Groups behalf by the employee share ownership trust for awards and grants under option and award schemes.
During the year the Group adopted UITF 38, Accounting for ESOP Trusts, which supersedes UITF 13.
UITF 38 requires the presentation of an entitys own shares held in an ESOP trust as a deduction from shareholders funds, as opposed to being recognised as xed asset investments.
UITF 38 also requires that the difference between the fair value of the underlying shares at the date of grant and the exercise price of the options and awards, is charged to the profit and loss account over the period to which the options and awards are granted.
Previously, the Group charged the difference between the purchase price of the shares, net of any hedges, and the exercise price of the options and awards to the profit and loss account over the period to which the options and awards are granted.
The balance sheet as at 31 December 2003 has been restated accordingly.
Loss on ordinary activities for the years ended 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2004 has not been impacted by the adoption of UITF 38.
Basis of consolidation The Financial Statements comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold in the year are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which control passes.
The accounting reference dates of certain of the subsidiaries and its associate undertaking associate are governed by local requirements and are not coterminous with the Groups 31 December year end.
For those companies with non-coterminous year ends, management accounts for the relevant period to 31 December have been consolidated.
The principal subsidiaries with such noncoterminous year ends are Avis Location fide Voitures sas and Avis Autonoleggio SpA.
In the opinion of the Directors, the expense of providing additional coterminous statutory accounts, together with consequential delay in producing the Groups Financial Statements, would outweigh any benefit to shareholders.
Revenue Revenue includes vehicle rental income, fees receivable from licensees and credit repair income, net of discounts and excluding intercompany sales, value added and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised over the period for which the vehicle is available to the customer.
Cost of sales Cost of sales includes selling, revenue related and eet costs.
Contributions to eet costs from suppliers are credited against cost of sales over the depreciable lives of the vehicles.
Any such contributions dependent on performance criteria are recognised only to the extent that it is considered probable that the criteria will be met.
Joint ventures and associates Undertakings in which the Group has joint control are treated as joint ventures and are accounted for using the gross equity method.
Undertakings in which the Group has a participating interest and exercises significant inuence over commercial and operating policy decisions are treated as associates and are accounted for using the equity method.
Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less provision for any impairment where the recoverable amount is less than cost.
Goodwill Goodwill arising prior to 1 March 1998 was written off to reserves as permitted by FRS 10, Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 28 February 1998 is capitalised and represents the excess of the fair value of consideration paid over the fair values attributed to the net assets acquired.
Whilst useful economic lives are determined for each individual acquisition based on the particular circumstances, the Group currently amortises such goodwill on a straight line basis over estimated useful economic lives of 20 years.
If required, the carrying value of goodwill is reviewed for impairment and is adjusted to the recoverable amount.
On disposal or termination of a business, any attributable goodwill is reinstated to the profit and loss account in arriving at the profit or loss on disposal or termination.
Tangible xed assets All directly attributable costs, including finance costs, on major capital projects are capitalised and are depreciated over the expected useful lives of the project elements from the date on which the project becomes fully operational.
Vehicle depreciation is based on estimates of future residual values or on guaranteed residual values.
Depreciation rates vary between 12% and 40% per annum, depending on the type of vehicle.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated so as to write down cost to estimated residual value in equal instalments over estimated useful lives, being: Leasehold property the period of the lease Leasehold improvements the shorter of the period of the lease or the life of the asset Plant and equipment 2 to 10 years Freehold buildings 50 years Freehold land not depreciated Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 39 Statement of Accounting Policies Leases Vehicles and any other assets held under finance leases are capitalised at fair value and depreciated as described above.
Interest on leases is charged to the profit and loss account so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining balance of the finance obligation.
Amounts payable for assets held under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
Vehicles provided to customers under operating leases are capitalised as xed assets and consequent rental costs and income are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period to which they relate.
Current asset investments Current asset investments comprise marketable securities and restricted cash deposits.
Any marketable securities held as current assets are stated at cost adjusted for any amortised premium or discount.
Pension arrangements Dened benefit schemes are valued by independent qualied actuaries on a regular basis, generally every three years, using the projected unit cost method.
Contributions are paid to the schemes in accordance with the recommendations of the actuaries and are charged to the profit and loss account over the period benefiting from the employees services.
Surpluses and deficits arising from valuations are spread over the average remaining service lives of employees.
Any difference between the profit and loss account charge and the contributions paid is included as an asset or liability in the balance sheet where applicable.
The amounts payable in the year under dened contribution schemes are charged immediately to the profit and loss account.
Following the publication of an amendment to FRS 17, Retirement Benets, in November 2002, full implementation of the standard has been deferred.
In the meantime, the required transitional disclosures are shown in Note 23ii.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is provided using the incremental liability approach and is measured on a non-discounted basis at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date except that: a Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale agreement exists at the balance sheet date.
Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is in any case not recognised.
b Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures unless dividends have been accrued as receivable or there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
c Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Assets are regarded as recoverable when it is regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
d Deferred tax is not recognised on permanent differences.
Foreign currency Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Transactions during the year are recorded at rates of exchange in effect when the transaction occurs.
The results of overseas operations are translated at average rates of exchange.
Exchange movements arising from the re-translation at closing rates of the opening balance sheets and results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are taken directly to reserves.
Where foreign currency borrowings are used to finance foreign subsidiaries, including associated goodwill, the resulting exchange movements are taken to reserves.
Other exchange movements are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are used as hedges in the nancing and financial risk management of the Group: a Forward foreign exchange contracts FX contracts which hedge currency assets and liabilities are recognised in the Accounts together with the assets and liabilities that they hedge.
The contract rate is used for translation.
FX contracts which hedge future sales and purchases are not recognised in the Accounts until the transaction they hedge is itself recognised.
If an FX contract ceases to be a hedge, then any gain or loss is taken to the profit and loss account.
b Options on cross currency or interest rate swaps are used either to hedge borrowings or as a means of entering into a swap as a hedge at a pre-determined target rate.
Premiums paid or received for such options are accounted for over the life of the relevant transaction, or, if immaterial or no transaction takes place, are recognised in the profit and loss account upon exercise or at maturity of the option contract.
Premiums paid on foreign exchange option contracts FX option contracts are recognised on an accruals basis.
Recognised gains or losses on FX option contracts are reected in the Accounts on the same basis as FX contracts.
c Cross currency swaps are included in the Accounts at the rate of exchange ruling on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising are dealt with in accordance with the accounting policy on foreign currencies.
Interest paid or received on cross currency swaps is recorded on an accruals basis.
Apart from inclusion at the ruling rate of exchange, cross currency swaps are not revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
d Interest arising under interest rate swaps, caps and collars is taken to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis.
None of these instruments are revalued to fair value at the balance sheet date.
Premiums paid on caps and collars are recognised on an accruals basis.
40 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
