AUDITORS REPORT Report of the independent auditor to the members of Basis of audit opinion Cookson Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards We have audited the financial statements on pages 44 to 71.
We issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Report that is described as having been audited.
and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups the Companys members those matters we are required to state to circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members information and explanations which we considered necessary as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable we have formed.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of and the Directors Remuneration Report.
As described on the presentation of information in the financial statements and the page 42, this includes responsibility for preparing the financial part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
Our responsibilities, as independent Opinion auditor, are established in the United Kingdom by statute, the In our opinion: Auditing Practices Board, the Listing Rules of the Financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Services Authority, and by our professions ethical guidance.
affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements and of the loss of the Group for the year then ended: and give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the financial statements and the part of the Directors the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the corporate governance statement on page 24 Registered Auditor reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and 15 March 2005 we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, including the corporate governance statement and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
43 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004
