HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT Policy Performance Cookson has a Health, Safety and Environment HS&E Policy Cookson companies operate from over 120 facilities in more than the Policy, the content and effectiveness of which are reviewed 30 countries and all of these facilities are subject to local regulatory, regularly.
It sets out how Cookson is organised to manage HS&E environmental and occupational safety and health requirements.
The Policy is reproduced in full on the Groups website.
It is Group policy that compliance with these requirements is the minimum standard for these operations.
In the few instances where The Policy is based on the principle that Cookson should operate government enforcement actions were taken during 2004, Group in a manner which preserves health, safety and a sound environment companies took prompt corrective actions and the penalties and that it is important to secure the involvement and commitment assessed by the authorities were minor.
of everyone in the organisation.
For Cookson companies worldwide, the minimum acceptable standard is to meet their legal HS&E A number of Group companies in the USA are named as potentially obligations.
The aim throughout the Group is to improve HS&E responsible parties in connection with certain waste disposal sites performance continually.
owned and operated by third parties which have been designated as superfund sites, although the majority of these cases have now Organisation and responsibilities been settled or are no longer active.
Where similar cases have Cookson regards HS&E matters as mainstream management been settled, the Groups share of the costs has not been material.
Executives and line managers at all levels are directly Although the potential levels of costs to be incurred by the Group responsible through the normal management structure for HS&E for the currently active cases will depend on many factors, they matters in the operations under their control.
All employees have are expected to be settled within the amounts already provided.
a responsibility to take reasonable care of themselves and others Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have potential while at work and to participate positively in the task of preserving environmental liabilities because of past operations at their current workplace health and safety and a sound environment.
Each of Cooksons major businesses has a nominated senior Initiatives executive with special responsibility for monitoring HS&E Companies throughout the Group are involved in initiatives performance.
Advice and support is available from the corporate to improve performance in HS&E areas, including many which HS&E function.
The Group Head of HS&E leads the function at a involve collaboration with customers and suppliers.
The aim is to corporate level, oversees the Groups HS&E activities and reports improve the efficiency of products and manufacturing processes, on these matters to the Executive Committee and the Board.
whilst maintaining or improving their compliance with relevant Management systems regulatory requirements.
The Board ultimately assumes overall responsibility for the Policy.
Cookson has put in place a worldwide safety programme aimed at The Corporate HS&E team works closely with executives, line increasing employee safety awareness and commitment throughout managers, HS&E specialists and co-ordinators throughout the the Group and reducing injuries in Group plants around the world.
A reporting system is in place to collect, collate and report A team of safety experts throughout the Group spearheads this on key performance indicators.
Summary performance review effort and an advisory panel of business and operations managers, reports are compiled and presented to the Executive Committee under the leadership of the Chief Executive, has been assembled to and other senior executives quarterly and annually to the Board.
As part of this effort, Cookson The Corporate team co-ordinates policy, strategy and planning.
adopts Group-wide safety targets and programmes to achieve them, It also monitors performance, which includes site reviews, and including minimum safety standards for all Cookson operations.
The provides assistance and advice for Group businesses.
worldwide safety programme is based on lessons and techniques Cooksons operations each have their own HS&E management that have been successful in reducing occupational injuries and systems in place.
The adoption of externally monitored formal associated costs in US operations over the past six years.
The management systems is encouraged where appropriate.
worldwide programme has been in place for three years and Cooksons A number of companies have achieved certification to the occupational injury rates have improved by over 35% in that time.
international environmental management system ISO 14001, with In 2004, Cookson began a new programme to further reduce other companies working towards achieving compliance with this energy use as a way to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and standard.
At present, 36 locations have ISO 14001 certification other pollutants.
This programme includes training employees to in place, with 50 implementing or considering certification.
Some understand energy use and conservation principles.
It also includes locations are also implementing OHSAS 18001, the international energy audits to assist high-use sites in identifying and implementing standard for health and safety management systems.
locations have received certification, while over 50 others are implementing or considering the health and safety system.
Additional information on health, safety and environmental matters can be found on the Groups website, www.
41 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004
