Independent Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members Committee Report, unaudited part of the Remuneration Committee of The Weir Group PLC Report, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report and the Group We have audited the Groups accounts for the 53 weeks ended Five Year Summary.
We consider the implications for our report if 31 December 2004 which comprise the Accounting Policies, we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Consolidated profit & Loss Account, Balance Sheets, Cash Flow inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not Statement, Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in extend to any other information.
Net Funds, Statement of Total Recognised Gains & Losses, Basis of audit opinion Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, the related We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom notes 1 to 27 and Principal Companies of the Group.
These Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An accounts have been prepared on the basis of the accounting audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report that is described as having the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited.
It also includes been audited.
an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, by the directors in the preparation of the accounts and of whether in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and companys members those matters we are required to state to performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the to anyone other than the company and the companys members accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by we have formed.
fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report to be audited.
Remuneration Committee Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are Opinion set out in the Directors Responsibilities statement.
Our responsibility In our opinion: is to audit the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and the company and of the Group as at 31 December 2004 and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards of the profit of the Group for the 53 weeks then ended: and and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
the accounts and the part of the Remuneration Committee We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give Report to be audited have been properly prepared in a true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not Registered Auditor consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper Glasgow accounting records, if we have not received all the information and 21 March 2005 explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
This other information comprises the Financial Highlights 2004, 2004 Highlights, Chairmans Statement, Our products, Our geographic markets, Chief Executives Review, Operational Review, Financial Review, Board of Directors, Directors Report, Corporate Governance Statement, Audit Committee Report, Nomination The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 39 Accounting Policies a Group accounts c Tangible assets The Group accounts consolidate the accounts of the company Freehold land and buildings are stated at valuation in 1978 and and subsidiary undertakings made up to a date co-terminous 1981 with subsequent additions at cost.
Other tangible assets are with the financial year of the company.
References to subsidiaries stated at cost.
Except for land, the cost or valuation of tangible are to be taken as references to subsidiary undertakings unless assets is depreciated over the estimated useful life by equal annual otherwise stated.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the installments at rates of 2.5% for buildings and 5% to 33.33% year are consolidated from the date of acquisition and the results for plant and equipment.
The surplus arising on revaluation of of subsidiaries disposed of are consolidated up to the date of sale.
buildings included in the revaluation reserve is amortised over the estimated useful lives of these buildings by transfer to the Entities in which the Group holds an interest on a long term basis profit and loss account reserve in equal annual installments.
and are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other d Government grants venturers under a contractual arrangement are treated as joint Grants related to expenditure on tangible assets are credited to ventures.
In the Group accounts, joint ventures are accounted profit at the same rate as the depreciation on the assets to which for using the gross equity method as dened in FRS9.
The amounts shown in the balance sheet in respect Entities, other than subsidiaries or joint ventures, in which the of grants consist of the total grants receivable to date, less the Group has a participating interest and over whose operating amounts so far credited to profit.
Grants of a revenue nature and financial policies the Group exercises a significant inuence, are credited to income in the period to which they relate.
In the Group accounts, associates are e Stocks accounted for using the equity method.
References to associates Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
are to be taken as references to associated undertakings unless Cost comprises direct materials on a first-in, first-out basis and direct otherwise stated.
The results are derived from either the latest labour plus attributable production overheads based on a normal audited accounts or the latest draft statutory accounts.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable price less anticipated costs to disposal.
Provision is made for all accounting standards.
foreseeable losses and due allowance is made for obsolete and slow moving items.
Claims for progress payments are deducted b Goodwill from the value of work in progress, or to the extent that they Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates or businesses exceed this value, are disclosed as payments receivable on account.
prior to 27 December 1997 was deducted directly from reserves f Long-term contracts and has not been reinstated on implementation of FRS10.
Positive A long-term contract is dened as the supply of a single substantial goodwill arising on acquisitions since then is capitalised, classied project where the supply normally extends into different accounting as an asset on the balance sheet and amortised on a straight line periods.
profit on long-term contracts is taken as the work is basis over its useful economic life up to a presumed maximum of carried out if the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable 20 years.
It is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full certainty.
The profit included is calculated on a prudent basis to financial year following the acquisition and in other periods, if reect the proportion of the work carried out at the year end, by events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying recording turnover and related costs as contract activity progresses.
value may not be recoverable.
Depending on the nature of each contract, turnover is either If a subsidiary, associate or business is subsequently sold or closed, calculated to be cost together with a proportion of profit any goodwill arising on acquisition that was deducted directly appropriate to the stage of completion of each contract, or is from reserves or that has not been amortised through the profit ascertained by reference to the valuation of individual elements and loss account is taken into account in determining the profit of work completed with separately ascertainable sales values.
or loss on sale or closure.
Provision is made for all foreseeable losses.
Claims for progress payments are deducted from amounts recoverable on long term contracts, or to the extent that they exceed this value, are disclosed as payments receivable on account.
40 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 g Research & development expenditure j Retirement benets Research and development expenditure is written off in the year The company and its major subsidiaries operate dened benefit in which it is incurred.
pension plans which are set up under separate trusts or through insurance companies.
Contribution payments are made to the h Deferred tax plans on the advice of an independent qualied actuary.
Pension Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that plan assets are measured using market values.
Pension plan have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less or to receive corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
more tax, with the following exceptions: Any increase in the present value of the liabilities of the Groups provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation dened benefit pension plans expected to arise from employee and similar fair value adjustments of xed assets and gains on service in the period is charged against operating profit.
The disposal of xed assets that have been rolled over into replacement expected return on the plans assets and the increase during the assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there period in the present value of the plans liabilities arising from the is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
passage of time are included in other finance income.
Actuarial However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that recognised gains and losses.
the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and Unfunded unapproved pension promises and obligations to charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold: provide certain additional post retirement benets to a number of provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on overseas employees are accorded the same accounting treatment remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, joint as applies to dened benefit pension plan liabilities.
ventures and associates only to the extent that, at the balance Contributions to dened contribution pension plans are charged sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: to the profit and loss account when they become payable.
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the k Leasing directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised in the balance be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the sheet and are depreciated over their useful lives.
The interest underlying timing differences can be deducted.
element of the rental obligations is charged to the profit and loss Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax account over the period of the lease and represents a constant rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
i Foreign currencies l Employee share schemes Transactions in foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling In the case of the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the difference at the date of the transaction or at the contract rate if the between the market value of the shares at the date of the award transaction is covered by a forward foreign currency contract.
and any consideration paid for the shares is charged to the profit Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated at and loss account over the performance period of the plan.
The the closing rate or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
The amount initially recognised is based on a reasonable expectation accounts of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are of the extent that performance criteria will be met.
That amount translated using the average rate for the year for the profit and loss is charged in the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis account and cash ow statements and the closing rate for the over the period to which the performance criteria relates, subject balance sheet.
The Groups interest in the equity of overseas joint to subsequent adjustments as necessary to deal with changes in ventures and associates is translated at the closing rate.
Exchange the probability of performance criteria being met or conditional differences on consolidation, after adjusting for differences on awards lapsing.
The company has taken advantage of the foreign currency net borrowings, are treated as adjustments to exemption contained in UITF17 in respect of the accounting reserves and other exchange differences are dealt with through the for the discount arising on the grant of options in the profit and loss account as they arise other than those on contracts companys Inland Revenue approved Savings Related which are incorporated into the contract assessment.
The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 41
