Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued Weir Canada has established a programme of community to suppliers are made in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 31 involvement, health, safety and environmental awareness and December 2004, the Group had an average of 62 days purchases workforce diversication.
This includes involvement with local outstanding in trade creditors.
colleges for trades training and job placements and also within Many Weir companies are collaborating closely with suppliers local schools the company provides a work experience and job to address environmental impacts throughout the supply chain, shadowing programme.
particularly in areas such as raw materials, packaging and Weir Strachan & Henshaw in the UK supports school industry recycling, to our mutual benefit.
days and is involved in mentoring within schools giving pupils real Weir Strachan & Henshaw in the UK has developed a core of time practical experience.
It operates a graduate training scheme 'Local Suppliers and Service Providers' who support its production in order to ensure a supply of well qualied chartered engineers and site maintenance needs.
These include machinists, painters, into the business and supports the graduate training schemes cleaners, non-destructive testing, heat treatment, plating and of other organisations.
The use of the local supply chain reduces greatly Charitable contributions energy expenditure through fuel use.
They also use 'Charity' registered organisations such as the Royal School for the Blind During the year Group companies made the following who hold Third Party ISO registration in support of their activities.
contributions: In addition, they regularly facilitate 'Supplier Forums' for The Weir Group Educational Trust 15,000 their supply chain at which their aims, objectives and targets are shared.
Other charitable being specically health, heritage, educational and community purposes 96,249 Research and development Research and development has a vital role to play in meeting our The Group made no political contributions during the year.
The development of new products Marketplace that are more environmentally benign in both manufacture and In 2004, Management Today, a UK management journal, in operation and the substitution of harmful materials, offers conjunction with Nottingham Business School published the competitive advantage to ourselves and to our customers.
results of a survey of the UKs most admired companies.
The survey We recognise that many of our products are themselves contributors evaluated companies under such criteria as quality of management, to environmental protection in critical areas such as power products and services and financial soundness.
Weir Group came 14th generation, nuclear handling and subsea oil and gas exploration.
overall and second within the Engineering and Machinery sector.
We are therefore investing in research and development to We recognise that our corporate social responsibility also reects continuously improve their performance.
in the way we behave towards our suppliers.
The Group does not 2005 will see continued investment in design, research and operate a standard policy in respect of payments to suppliers.
development in which our corporate social responsibility Each operating company is responsible for agreeing the terms and business objectives are closely aligned.
and conditions under which business transactions are conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that payments Directors Responsibilities Directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the affairs of the company and of the Group and of the profit or loss financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure of the Group for the period.
In preparing these accounts, the that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and then apply them consistently, make judgements and estimates hence for taking any reasonable steps for the prevention and that are reasonable and prudent and state whether or not detection of fraud and other irregularities.
applicable accounting standards have been followed.
38 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003
