70 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 Shareholder Information Financial Calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 27 April 2005 Record date for final dividend 29 April 2005 Annual general meeting 11 May 2005 Final dividend paid 1 June 2005 shareholders on the register at this date will receive the dividend Registered ofce and company number Taxation 149 Newlands Road, Glasgow G44 4EX For the purpose of capital gains tax, the market value of The Weir Registered in Scotland Group PLC ordinary shares as at 31 March 1982 was 29.75p.
Company Number 2934 Rights issues of ordinary shares took place in April 1987 at 157p per share on the basis of one new ordinary share for every seven Registrars ordinary shares held, in July 1990 at 250p per share on the basis Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavillions, of one new ordinary share for every five ordinary shares held and Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 7NH.
in September 1994 at 252p per share on the basis of one new Shareholder enquiries relating to shareholding, dividend ordinary share for every four ordinary shares held.
payments, change of address, loss of share certicate etc.
should With effect from 28 June 1993, each ordinary share of 25p was be addressed to Computershare Investor Services PLC at the sub-divided into two ordinary shares of 12.5p and the market above address.
value of an ordinary share as at 31 March 1982 takes account The registrars provide an on-line service that enables shareholders of the sub-division.
to access details of their Weir Group shareholdings.
A shareholder Shareholder communications wishing to view the information, together with additional You can now register to receive shareholder communications information such as indicative share prices and details of recent Annual Reports, Interim Reports and other company dividends, should visit www.
communications electronically and also appoint a proxy and Dividends payment direct to banks vote electronically provided you have internet access and a Dividends can be paid direct to your bank or building society valid e-mail address.
To register, you will need your Shareholder account using the Bankers Automated Clearing Service BACS.
Reference Number, which is given on your Share Certicate or Tax This means that your dividend will be in your account on the Dividend Voucher.
This service is provided in conjunction with our same day the Company makes the payment.
Your tax voucher registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC.
To obtain more will be posted directly to your own address.
Shareholders who information and register for this service, please visit have not yet arranged to use this method of payment, can www.
The Company Website encourages you to have your dividends paid direct to a bank You may wish to view the Company website containing details of or building society.
Group activities and investor information including the Notice of Annual General Meeting the Annual General Meeting and the full Annual Report and The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Lecture Room, Accounts.
The Burrell Collection, Pollok Park, Glasgow on 11 May 2005 at 12 noon.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the shareholders circular.
The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2004 71
