Corporate governance continued Statement of Directors responsibilities Attendance at Audit Committee meetings during the year was as Company law requires the Directors to prepare, each financial follows: year, financial statements that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group, and of the loss Number of Total eligible of the group for that period.
In preparing those financial Director committees attended committees statements, the Directors are required to: Frances Heaton Chairman 3 3 Andrew Carr-Locke 2 2 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Bill Cockburn 3 3 consistently Sue Lyons 3 3 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Jim McKenna 2 3 prudent Jim Cronin 1 1 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Relations with shareholders explained in the financial statements.
The company, largely through the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Director of The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Communications, maintains a dialogue with institutional records that disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time the shareholders throughout the year.
This includes regular financial position of the company and enable them to ensure presentations, meetings, and press briefings to coincide with that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act particular events, for example the announcement of final and 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of interim results and discussion of specific matters as and when the company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention they arise.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The AGM is held at a time and location that the Directors believe The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity to be convenient to private investors.
A presentation of the of the AWG website.
Information published on the website is business results is made and shareholders are invited to ask accessible in many countries with different legal requirements questions.
relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which results in uncertainty regarding legal The company maintains a website, www.
contains details about the company.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Patrick Firth Company Secretary and Group Legal Counsel 2 June 2004 28 AWG Plc
