Accounting policies Accounting Convention The financial The carrying values of intangible assets are Interest Interest payable is charged to the statements are prepared under the historical subject to review when appropriate and any profit and loss account as incurred, except cost convention, modified to include the impairment is charged to the profit and loss for interest relating to major fixed assets revaluation of certain fixed assets in accordance account.
The amortisation periods currently under construction, which is added to the with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable being used range from 10 to 20 years.
cost until the project becomes operational.
Except as noted below, Interest receipts and payments due under these financial statements have been prepared Goodwill On the acquisition of a business, interest rate swap agreements are taken on a basis consistent with the prior year.
fair values are attributed to the net assets to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since The Group has adopted UITF 38 Accounting 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised Leases Rentals under operating leases are for ESOP trusts in these financial statements.
over its estimated useful life which management charged to the profit and loss account on The adoption of this standard represents estimates to be not more than 20 years.
The a straight line basis over the lease term.
a change in accounting policy and the carrying value of goodwill is subject to review comparative figures have been restated when appropriate and any impairment is Land and buildings leased Land and buildings accordingly see note 25. charged to the profit and loss account.
leased to third parties under operating leases have been capitalised at fair value under the Basis of consolidation The Group financial Prior to this, the Groups policy was to eliminate acquisition method of accounting.
Operating statements are the consolidation of the goodwill arising on acquisitions against reserves.
lease income is accounted for on a straight financial statements of the Company and all Under the transitional arrangements of FRS 10 line basis with any rental increases recognised of its subsidiary undertakings.
The acquisition Goodwill and intangible assets, reinstatement in any period to which they relate.
method of accounting has been adopted.
of goodwill is not required.
Consequently, such Under this method, the results of subsidiary goodwill has not been reinstated and any such Pensions The cost of providing defined undertakings acquired and sold during the goodwill will remain eliminated against reserves benefit pensions is charged against profits year are included from the effective date until the disposal or termination of the business on a systematic basis, with pension fund of acquisition or up to the date of acquired.
The profit or loss on the subsequent surpluses and deficits arising allocated over disposal respectively.
disposal or termination is calculated after the expected remaining service lives of charging the amount of any such goodwill.
Differences between the Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised amounts charged or credited in the profit in respect of all timing differences that have Tangible fixed assets The book value of and loss account and payments made are originated but not reversed at the balance tangible fixed assets is written off evenly over classified appropriately as assets or liabilities.
sheet date, with the exception that provision their estimated useful lives.
Plant and machinery Contributions to defined contribution schemes is not made on asset revaluations, or for tax is normally depreciated over 4 to 10 years, are charged to the profit and loss account that would arise on the remittance of the except where the estimated working life is as incurred.
retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, 20 years or longer e. g. papermaking machines, unless there is a commitment to do so.
when depreciation is provided over 20 years.
Provisions Provisions are made for liabilities Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted Freehold buildings are depreciated over where, in the directors opinion, present basis.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only 50 years and freehold land is not depreciated.
obligations exist and it is probable that to the extent that, more likely than not, they Leasehold improvements are depreciated over outflows of funds will be required to settle the will be recovered.
the shorter of the asset and the remaining life liabilities in the future and the amount of these of the lease.
In accordance with the transitional funds can be reasonably estimated.
Where Foreign currencies and derivatives Assets measures of FRS 15 Tangible fixed assets, material, future cash flows are discounted and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated the Group has adopted a policy of not revaluing in arriving at amounts to be provided.
into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at properties since the 1996 valuations, and the balance sheet date, except where covered accordingly the valuations obtained in 1996 Research and development Research and by forward contracts, when the forward rate have not been updated.
development expenditure is charged to the is used.
The results of overseas subsidiary profit and loss account in the period in which undertakings are translated at average rates of Impairment An impairment is the reduction it is incurred.
Tangible fixed assets used for exchange.
Differences on the translation of the in the recoverable amount of a fixed asset research and development are depreciated opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiary or goodwill below its carrying amount.
The in accordance with the Groups policy.
undertakings are taken directly to reserves, net recoverable amount is the higher of net of differences on related currency borrowings.
realisable value and value in use.
Value Stock Stock is valued at the lower of cost in use is measured using discounted and net realisable value.
Cost includes Intangible assets Intangible fixed assets cash flows.
other than goodwill, which comprise patents, licences and marketing rights, are stated The carrying values of fixed assets are Turnover Turnover represents the total net at cost less a provision for amortisation.
reviewed for impairment when there is an invoiced value of goods sold to external Amortisation is calculated to write off the cost indication that the assets might be impaired.
customers, excluding all sales taxes.
Revenue of intangible assets in equal annual instalments First year impairment reviews are conducted from the sale of goods is recognised when over the lower of their legal and estimated for acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
useful lives, but no longer than 20 years.
