Accounting convention D. Tangible fixed assets E. Stocks The accounts are prepared under the Prior to the adoption of FRS 15 in the Stocks are stated at the lower of cost historical cost convention, as modified 1999 2000 financial year, properties and net realisable value.
The cost of by the revaluation of property, and in were regularly revalued on a cyclical finished goods includes appropriate accordance with applicable Accounting basis.
Since the adoption of FRS 15, overheads.
Cost is calculated on the Standards.
the group policy has been not to revalue basis of first in, first out and net its properties.
Consequently the realisable value is the estimated selling B.
Basis of consolidation transitional provisions of FRS 15 have price less any costs of disposal.
been applied and, while previous The consolidated accounts incorporate F. Foreign exchange valuations have been retained, they the accounts of the company and all have not been updated.
Details of the group undertakings, together with the Assets and liabilities denominated in last revaluations are given in note 14. groups share of the net assets and foreign currencies are translated into Other fixed assets are stated at cost.
results of joint ventures and associates.
sterling at the rates of exchange quoted Gross interest costs incurred on the These are adjusted, where appropriate, at the balance sheet date.
Trading financing of major projects are to conform to group accounting policies.
results are translated into sterling at capitalised until the time that they Apart from the acquisition of Whitbread average rates of exchange for the year.
Group PLC by Whitbread PLC in 2000 1, Day to day transactions are recorded in which was accounted for using merger Depreciable fixed assets are written sterling at the rates ruling on the date of accounting, acquisitions are accounted off on a straight line basis over their those transactions.
Currency gains and for under the acquisition method and estimated useful lives, as follows: losses arising from the retranslation of any goodwill arising is capitalised as an the opening net assets of overseas Freehold land is not depreciated.
On disposal of a operations, less those arising from business, the profit or loss on disposal is Freehold buildings are depreciated related currency borrowings to the calculated after including any goodwill to their estimated residual values extent that they are matched, are previously written off direct to reserves over periods up to 50 years.
recorded as a movement on reserves, net in respect of that business.
The differences which arise from Leasehold properties are depreciated companies acquired or disposed of are translating the results of overseas to their estimated residual values included in the profit and loss account businesses at average rates of over the shortest of 50 years, their from or up to the date that control exchange, and their assets and liabilities estimated useful lives and their passes respectively.
As a consolidated at closing rates, are also dealt with remaining lease periods.
profit and loss account is published, a in reserves.
All other currency gains separate profit and loss account of the Administration and logistics and losses are dealt with in the profit and parent company is omitted from the furniture, fixtures and equipment loss account.
group accounts by virtue of the are depreciated over 3 to 30 years.
G. Financial instruments exemption granted by section 230 of Retail furniture, fixtures and the Companies Act 1985. equipment are depreciated over Derivative financial instruments are used 4 to 25 years.
by the group for the management of C. Intangible fixed assets foreign currency and interest rate Vehicles are depreciated over Goodwill arising on acquisitions is exposures.
Amounts payable or 4 to 10 years.
It is amortised, on a straight receivable in respect of interest rate swap line basis, over its estimated useful The carrying values of tangible fixed and interest rate cap agreements are economic life up to a maximum of assets are reviewed for impairment if recognised as adjustments to the interest 20 years.
Goodwill written off against events or changes in circumstances expense over the period of the contracts.
reserves in previous years has not been indicate that their carrying value may not Gains or losses on foreign currency reinstated.
Any impairment in the forward and option contracts are value of fixed assets below depreciated recognised in the profit and loss account IT software is amortised, on a straight historical cost is charged to the profit and when the hedged transaction occurs.
In line basis over five years.
Profits and losses on the balance sheet, payments made to The carrying values of intangible fixed disposal of fixed assets reflect the secure a hedge are included with the assets are reviewed for impairment if difference between net selling price and hedged item to which they relate.
events or changes in circumstances net book value at the date of disposal.
Option premiums paid are recognised in indicate that their carrying value may the profit and loss account over the life not be recoverable.
Premiums and discounts arising on financial liabilities are amortised over the remaining life of the instrument concerned.
page 50 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 H. Turnover Turnover is the value of goods and services sold to third parties as part of the groups trading activities, after deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
Leases Rental payments in respect of operating leases are charged against operating profit on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives are charged to operating profit on a straight line basis over the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate.
Pension funding Pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account over the average expected service life of current employees.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are amortised over the expected remaining service lives of current employees, using the percentage of pensionable salaries method.
Differences between the amount charged in the profit and loss account and payments made to the schemes are treated as assets or liabilities in the balance sheet.
K. Tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not been reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not recognised when an asset is sold if it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Provisions for deferred tax are not discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
L. Comparative amounts Comparative amounts are restated where necessary to conform to current presentation.
