principal accounting policies The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable received on account of contracts are deducted from amounts Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom.
The more important recoverable on contracts.
Payments received in excess of amounts Group accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, recoverable are included in creditors.
Joint arrangements Basis of accounting The Group enters into joint arrangements as part of its housebuilding The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention.
Such arrangements fall to be classified as joint arrangements not constituting an entity under Basis of consolidation FRS 9 Associates and Joint Ventures.
As such, the Group accounts The year ends for all the Companys undertakings are 31st December.
for its share of income, expenditure, assets, liabilities and cashflows.
All subsidiary undertakings are included in the Groups consolidated These amounts are incorporated into the relevant figures within accounts.
The Directors consider that this departure from the requirement of the Companies Act 1985 to account for Goodwill investments in undertakings which are joint arrangements as either Goodwill arising on acquisition is capitalised and amortised over its associates or trade investments is necessary for the financial estimated useful economic life to a maximum of 20 years.
Negative statements to show a true and fair view because joint arrangements goodwill in excess of the fair values of the non-monetary assets are in substance an extension of the Groups own business.
acquired is credited to the profit and loss account in the periods expected to benefit.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on the original cost of assets in equal annual Goodwill written off to the profit and loss account under the instalments at the following rates: Groups policy prior to the implementation of FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets has not been reinstated.
Freehold buildings 2% Plant, equipment and vehicles 10% to 25% Investments Computers, scaffolding and other assets Investments held as fixed or current assets are stated at cost less with short economic lives 20% to 50% provision for any impairment.
Deferred tax Turnover Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the transaction Turnover comprises amounts receivable for goods and services or events that gave rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, supplied to customers during the year and the appropriate proportion or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred by the balance of sales value of property development contracts.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is more likely transactions, value added tax and proceeds from the sales of part than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the exchange houses and undeveloped residential land are excluded average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the from turnover.
timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet Proceeds from the sale of newly constructed residential properties date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
are included in turnover on legal completion.
Turnover arising on long-term sale contracts and residential property development Leases under partnership agreements is recognised in proportion to the The annual rentals of operating leases are charged to trading profits stage of completion reached, commencing on exchange of contract.
on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Stocks and work in progress Financial instruments Stocks, including land held for development and completed and part The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained exchanged houses, and residential work in progress are valued at the profits and borrowings.
The Groups financial instruments, other lower of cost and net realisable value.
Where the Group undertakes than derivatives, comprise cash, borrowings and other items arising housing development within a partnership agreement, work in directly from its trading operations which include long and shortprogress includes the attributable costs after deducting amounts term debtors and long and short-term land, trade and other creditors.
taken to cost of sales, less progress payments received and receivable.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the analyses of financial instruments.
The Group also enters into Development work in progress is valued at the lower of cost and derivative transactions in the form of swap arrangements to manage net realisable value less progress payments received and receivable.
the interest rate and currency risks arising from the Groups operations Cost includes attributable overheads.
and its sources of finance.
Gains and losses on swap arrangements are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period in which Long-term contracts they occur.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
Profits on long-term contracts are recognised in proportion to the stage of completion reached when the outcome of the contract can Pensions be assessed with reasonable certainty.
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes for certain employees.
The Groups contributions to Amounts recoverable on contracts are included in debtors and stated the schemes are charged against profits in the year in which the at cost plus attributable profit less any foreseeable losses.
Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 49
