Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Notice of meeting THE SIXTY FOURTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the company will be held at the Hanover International Hotel, Mayo Avenue, Bradford, West Yorkshire on Thursday 20 May 2004 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: 1 To receive and consider the directors report and audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 1 February 2004.
2 To declare a final dividend of 270p per share payable on 24 May 2004 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 23 April 2004.
3 To re-elect M M Melnyk as a director.
4 To re-elect R A Owen as a director.
5 To approve the directors remuneration report for the 52 weeks ended 1 February 2004.
6 To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company to hold ofce from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the company at remuneration to be xed by the directors.
7 To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That the company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as dened in Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act on the London Stock Exchange 1 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the company ordinary shares and or 5 4% cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares of 1 each in the capital of the company convertible preference shares where such purchase is, in the opinion of the directors, in the best interests of the company at the time of any purchase provided that: i the maximum aggregate numbers of ordinary shares and convertible preference shares hereby authorised to be purchased are 151,900,000 ordinary shares and 144,476 convertible preference shares representing approximately 57% and 10% respectively of the issued share capital of each class of shares at the date of this notice: ii the minimum prices which may be paid for the ordinary shares and the convertible preference shares are their respective par values from time to time and the maximum prices which may be paid for the ordinary shares and the convertible preference shares respectively are amounts equal to 5% above the average of the middle-market quotations for such shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the 5 business days before the purchase is made: iii the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting: and iv the company may make a contract to purchase its own shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of such contract.
8 To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution: That for the purposes of the authority conferred by Article 7 2 of the companys articles of association authority to allot relevant securities the prescribed period shall be from the date of passing of this resolution until 30 June 2005 or, if earlier, the expiry of the next annual general meeting of the company and the Section 80 amount shall be 80,000,000 representing approximately 302% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company at 18 March 2004.
4 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Notice of meeting continued 9 To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: That for the purposes of the power conferred by Article 7 3 of the companys articles of association power to allot equity securities for cash the prescribed period shall be from the date of passing of this resolution until 30 June 2005 or, if earlier, the expiry of the next annual general meeting of the company and the Section 89 amount shall be 13,255,325 representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at 18 March 2004 and that the directors may in addition during the prescribed period allot equity securities for cash as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment up to the amount required in connection with the exercise of the rights of conversion attached to the convertible preference shares.
Registered Ofce By order of the board Hilmore House JONATHAN BURKE Thornton Road Secretary Bradford BD8 9AX 18 March 2004 Notes 1 If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your registered holding of ordinary shares or convertible preference shares in the company, please pass this document and the accompanying form of proxy to the stockbroker, bank manager or other agent through whom the sale was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
2 A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
To be valid the form of proxy must be completed and lodged with the registrars of the company not later than 11.00 am on 18 May 2004.
A proxy should either be submitted by post on the enclosed form of proxy or via the internet at www.
com where full instructions are given.
If you choose to appoint a proxy electronically you will need your unique investor code printed on the form of proxy notes section.
3 Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, the company species that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purpose of calculating how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast, a person must be entered on the register of holders of the ordinary shares of the company by no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
4 The total issued share capital of the company at the date of this notice was 265,106,519 in ordinary shares of 1 10p each and 1,444,776 in 5 4% cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares of 1 each.
5 Dividend warrants will be posted on 21 May 2004 to those ordinary shareholders registered at the close of business on 23 April 2004.
Participants in the dividend reinvestment plan will receive their statements and if applicable share certicates by 3 June 2004.
6 Details of the directors remuneration and other benets are contained in the directors remuneration report and financial statements.
The register of directors interests, a statement of all transactions of each director in the shares of the company during the previous twelve months, copies of the directors service contracts and the standard terms of employment will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting and at the registered ofce of the company during normal business hours.
