Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Accounting policies Accounting period The accounting period of the group ends on the Sunday falling between 29 January and 4 February each year.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The consolidated financial statements of the company and its subsidiary undertakings include all results for the period attributable to members of the company.
The financial periods of all the undertakings in the group are co-terminous.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the groups financial statements with the exception of FRS 17 Retirement Benets and FRS 5 Substance of transactions application note G which have been adopted in these financial statements.
The comparative gures have been restated accordingly.
Turnover Turnover represents gross takings from ordinary activities excluding value added tax and intra group transactions.
Depreciation The policy of the group is to provide depreciation at rates which are calculated to write off the cost less residual value of tangible xed assets by equal annual instalments as follows: Freehold buildings rates varying between 2% and 10% of original cost.
Leasehold buildings rates varying between 2% and 10% of original cost or over the period of the lease if shorter.
Plant and equipment rates varying between 15% and 33% of original cost.
Motor vehicles rates varying between 20% and 25% of original cost.
Additional depreciation is taken when, in the opinion of the directors, the written down value of an asset exceeds the net recoverable value.
Capitalisation of interest The cost of nancing property developments prior to their opening date is included in the cost of the project.
Leased assets i As lessee Tangible xed assets operated under the terms of finance leases are capitalised at a value equal to the cost incurred in acquiring the relevant assets and depreciated in the same manner as owned assets or over the term of the lease if shorter.
Finance charges are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
ii As lessor Assets held for use in operating leases are recorded as xed assets and depreciated over their useful lives.
Income from operating leases is credited to the profit and loss account over the life of the lease.
Goodwill Purchased goodwill representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the separable net assets acquired arising on consolidation is capitalised.
Positive goodwill is amortised to nil over its estimated useful life.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business, the profit or loss on disposal or termination is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any related goodwill.
Income from suppliers Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are recognised when all performance criteria have been met.
All such payments are offset against cost of goods sold.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise goods for resale.
Pension costs Retirement benets to eligible employees are provided by a dened benefit scheme which is funded by contributions from the group and employees and its assets are held in a separate trustee administered fund.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The pension scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or deficit is recognised in full.
The movement in the surplus or deficit is split between operating charges, finance items and, in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, actuarial gains and losses.
Contributions in respect of the stakeholder pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
Net cash Cash, for the purpose of the cash ow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts payable on demand.
Overdrafts are stated net of uncleared banking items mainly cheques in the course of clearing.
Liquid resources are current asset investments which are disposable without curtailing or disrupting the business and are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at or close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year other than cash and investments in money market managed funds.
Deferred taxation Full provision is made without discounting for deferred taxation, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
