61 Accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accounting policies Year ended 31 July 2004 Basis of accounting Goodwill These consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical Goodwill arises when the cost of acquiring subsidiary undertakings and cost convention and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
businesses exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets acquired.
Prior to 1 August 1998, goodwill arising on consolidation and purchased Basis of consolidation goodwill was written off to reserves.
Following publication of FRS 10, a The Group accounts include the results of the parent Company and its revised policy for accounting for goodwill was adopted with effect from subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 July 2004.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions completed on or after that date is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over a The trading results of businesses acquired, sold or discontinued during period of not more than 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions the year are included in profit on ordinary activities from the date of effective prior to 1 August 1998 has not been reinstated on the balance sheet.
acquisition or up to the date of sale or discontinuance, unless provision therefor has been made in earlier years.
The net assets of businesses acquired are incorporated in the consolidated accounts at their fair value to the Group.
Fair value adjustments principally Foreign currencies relate to adjustments necessary to bring the accounting policies of acquired The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated businesses into line with those of the Wolseley Group but may also include into sterling using average rates of exchange ruling during the relevant other adjustments necessary to restate assets and liabilities at their fair financial period.
values at the date of acquisition.
All businesses acquired are consolidated using the acquisition method of accounting.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at 31 July.
Exchange differences Turnover arising between the translation into sterling of the net assets of these Turnover is the amount receivable for the provision of goods and services subsidiary undertakings at rates ruling at the beginning and end of the falling within the Groups ordinary activities, excluding intra-Group sales, year are dealt with through reserves as are exchange differences on trade discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes.
foreign currency borrowings raised to finance overseas assets.
Leased assets Exchange differences on financial instruments entered into for foreign Where fixed assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights currency net assets hedging purposes are dealt with through reserves.
approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased and the capital element of the leasing commitments is included The cost of the Companys investments in overseas subsidiary undertakings in borrowings.
The rentals payable are apportioned between interest, is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date of investment.
which is charged to the profit and loss account, and capital, which reduces the outstanding obligation.
The cost of operating leases is charged on All other foreign currency assets and liabilities of the Company and its a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
United Kingdom subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the rate ruling at 31 July except in those instances where forward cover Costs in respect of computer systems has been arranged, in which case this forward rate is used.
Costs in respect of developing and implementing significant computer systems are capitalised and amortised over their estimated useful lives Foreign currency transactions during the year are translated into sterling of typically 3 to 5 years.
Costs include: computer and network hardware: at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction except when software licences: consulting costs attributable to the development, design forward exchange contracts are in place, when the forward contract rate and implementation of the system and internal costs directly attributable is used.
Any exchange differences are dealt with through the profit and to the development, design and implementation of the system.
respect of training and data conversion are expensed as incurred.
62 Accounting policies Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accounting policies continued Year ended 31 July 2004 Depreciation Derivatives and financial instruments Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets except freehold land Financial instruments, in particular, interest rate swaps and currency mainly on a straight line basis to write off the cost of those assets over swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business their estimated useful lives.
The principal rates of depreciation are: freehold activities of the Group and the financing of those activities.
There is no buildings and long leaseholds, 2-3%: short leaseholds, over the period trading activity in financial instruments.
A discussion of how the financial of the lease: plant and machinery, 10-15%: fixtures and fittings, 15%: risks are managed is included in the operating and financial review computers, 20-100% and motor vehicles, 25%.
Financial instruments are accounted for as follows: Real property awaiting disposal Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the Groups exposure to Real property awaiting disposal is transferred to current assets at the lower movements in interest rates.
The interest payable or receivable on of book written down value and estimated net realisable value.
Depreciation such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits is not applied to real property awaiting disposal, but the carrying value is or borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior reviewed annually and written down through the profit and loss account to maturity.
to current estimated net realisable value if lower.
Cross currency interest rate swaps currency swaps are used to hedge Stocks foreign currency assets and borrowings.
The future currency exchange Stocks are valued at the lower of Group cost and net realisable value, due within such contracts is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance allowance being made for obsolete or slow moving items.
Raw materials, sheet date and any unrealised gain or loss is matched with that on the bought out components and goods purchased for resale are stated at cost underlying asset or liability in reserves.
The interest coupon on such on a first in, first out basis.
swaps is accrued in the same way as that on borrowings and deposits.
Taxation Pensions and post retirement benefits Provision is made for deferred taxation in so far as a liability or asset has The expected costs of providing retirement pensions under defined benefit arisen as a result of transactions that had occurred by the balance sheet plans and other post retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss date and have given rise to an obligation to pay more tax in the future, account over the periods benefiting from the employees services in or the right to pay less tax in the future.
An asset has not been recognised accordance with the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
to the extent that the transfer of economic benefits in the future is uncertain.
Variations from expected cost are normally spread over the average Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted.
remaining service lives of current employees.
Provision is made for UK or foreign taxation arising on the distribution Contributions to defined contribution pension plans and other post to the UK of retained profits of overseas subsidiary undertakings where retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
dividends have been recognised as receivable.
