Annual General Meeting To be held at 11.00am on Thursday 27 May 2004 at The Royal College of Physicians, 11 St. Andrews Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE.
Each shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Dividend Payments The proposed final dividend if approved will be paid on 24 June 2004 to shareholders on the register on 2 April 2004.
Payment of Dividends by BACS Many shareholders have already arranged for dividends to be paid by mandate directly to their bank or building society account.
The Company mandates dividends through the BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services system.
The benefit to shareholders of the BACS payment method is that the Registrar posts the tax vouchers directly to them, whilst the dividend is credited on the payment date to the shareholders bank or building society account.
Shareholders who have not yet arranged for their dividends to be paid direct to their bank or building society account and wish to benefit from this service should request the Companys Registrar address overleaf to send them a Dividend Interest mandate form or alternatively complete the mandate form attached to their dividend tax voucher in June.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details can be obtained from the Registrar.
If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the Plan, you need take no further action.
Shareholder Information on the Internet The Company maintains an investor relations zone on its website www.
com which allows access to share price information, management biographies, copies of company reports and other useful investor information.
In addition, Computershare Investor Services PLC, the Company Registrar, has introduced a facility where shareholders are able to access details of their shareholding in the company over the internet subject to complying with an identity check.
This service can be accessed on their website www.
com Woolworths Group plc is registered in England and Wales Number 03855289.
51 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Shareholder Information continued Registrar Auditors Computershare  LLP Investor Services PLC 1 Embankment Place PO BOX 82 London WC2N 6RH The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Joint Brokers Bristol BS99 7NH UBS Tel: 0870 889 3108 1 Finsbury Avenue www.
com London EC2M 2PP Registered and Head Ofce Cazenove Woolworth House 12 Tokenhouse Yard 242-246 Marylebone Road London EC2R 7AN London NW1 6JL Tel: 020 7262 1222 Joint Financial Advisors fax: 020 7706 5416 UBS www.
com 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP A copy of this Annual Report Credit Suisse First Boston is being sent to all shareholders.
One Cabot Square Copies are also available London E14 4QJ from the registered ofce shown above.
Solicitors Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer 64 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1HS 52 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 The Woolworths Group at a Glance Retail Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing Woolworths Mainchain Woolworths big W MVC Streets Online Entertainment UK Limited VCI Group Demon Music Group Banana Split Productions Limited www.
co. uk The Mainchain stores comprise Woolworths big W is a superstore MVC is a specialist retailer of Home Streets Online is an online retailer EUK is the countrys largest VCI is an AudioVisual Entertainment Demon Music Group is one of the Banana Split is a production the traditional Woolworths outlets format developed to meet consumer Entertainment products DVDs, of Entertainment products, wholesale distributor of Home group with two divisions: Video and leading publishers of budget audio company, specialising in the located in small towns and city demand for out-of-town shopping.
CDs, videos and games software.
including music, DVDs, videos, Entertainment products, DVDs, Music.
The Video division of VCI product, owning and licensing an creation and production of suburbs, targeted at meeting basic Stores offer convenient shopping MVC relaunched its membership and games software.
CDs, videos, and games software, is the leading independent video extensive range of music titles.
pre-recorded videos, feature film everyday shopping requirements, for a wide range of products card this year, called More and supplying Britains retailers with publisher in the UK, with established trailers, television programming as well as larger stores located on including those usually offered has in excess of 1.5 million their music, video and games relationships with major content and advertisements.
prime shopping streets in major at a Woolworths store.
EUK offers a value added providers.
VCI owns Demon Music regional shopping centres.
two Woolworths big W stores frequent high-spending buyer wholesale service which includes Group and is a majority shareholder The product offer covers Toys, opened in 1999.
The Company of Entertainment products and managing retailers inventory, in Banana Split Productions Limited.
Childrens Clothing, Events, will review the size and offer aims to distinguish itself from other merchandising, staff training and Confectionery, Home and of these stores in 2004. specialist high street Entertainment product labelling.
EUK has also Entertainment: larger stores include retailers by offering a comprehensive established EUK Direct, offering a more comprehensive range of Overview product range including an extensive a wholesale distribution service Home and Childrens Clothing.
Number of stores: 21 back catalogue at competitive prices.
and a direct to home solution Average size sq ft: 74,400 for Entertainment retailers on Overview Overview the Internet.
Number of stores: 803 Number of stores: 85 Average size sq ft: 8,440 Average size sq ft: 3,700 This Annual Report is printed on Designed and produced by paper made using at least 50 per cent williams and phoa TCF pulps from sustainable sources.
The paper is bio-degradable, fully recyclable and produced in full accordance with the environmental laws in the country of manufacture.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Woolworths Group plc Woolworth House 242-246 Marylebone Road Profit before taxation, London NW1 6JL Tel: 020 7262 1222 Fax: 020 7706 5416 exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill increased 32.2 per cent to 69.8 million Profit before taxation increased 75.5 per cent to 66.7 million Basic earnings per share increased 83.3 per cent to 3.3 pence per share Adjusted basic earnings per share increased 34.6 per cent to 3.5 pence per share Net funds at the year-end of 52.9 million, up 17.7 million from last year-end Full year dividend increased by 13.2 per cent to1.5 pence per share Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Woolworths Group plc Throughout this document adjusted basic earnings per share www.
com is as calculated in note11 to the financial statements.
