The Company reports to share owners four times a year.
Responsibilities in respect of the preparation At each year-end, all operating companies supply their of financial statements full-year financial results with such additional information as is appropriate.
This information is consolidated to allow UK company law also requires the directors to prepare the Group to present the necessary disclosures for UK and financial statements for each financial year which give a true US GAAP reporting and International Financial Reporting and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Standards IFRS including International Accounting Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or Standards IAS.
loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those financial The Disclosure committee gives further assurance that statements, the directors are required to: publicly-released information, including this Annual Report, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them is free from material omission or misstatement.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Adoption of IFRS prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been From 1 January 2005, the Group is required to prepare followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and its consolidated financial statements in accordance with explained in the financial statements.
The Groups first IFRS results will be The directors are responsible for keeping proper its interim results for the six months ended 30 June 2005. accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy The impact that the adoption of IFRS would have had at all times the financial position of the Company and enable on the Groups 2004 results, balance sheet and cash ows them to ensure that the financial statements comply with was published in the Companys trading statement on the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for 22 April 2005 and is reproduced on pages 162 to 168. safeguarding the assets of the Company and consequently This unaudited information was prepared substantially for taking all possible steps for the prevention and detection on the basis of all IAS, IFRS and related interpretations, of fraud and other irregularities.
published by the International Accounting Standards The following information, together with the statements Board IASB and in issue at that date.
regarding directors responsibilities and statement of going concern set out on pages 93 and 95 and the directors Sarbanes-Oxley S404 remuneration and interests in the share capital of the Company set out on pages 111 to 115, constitute the Effective for the 2006 year-end, the Group and its auditors Directors report.
will be required to report separately to the share owners on the design and effectiveness of internal controls over Substantial share ownership financial reporting, in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
As at 10 May 2005, the Company is aware of the following The Group has planned its response to the necessary interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital testing procedures and is committed to achieving of the Company: compliance given the rigour of the controls, processes Legg Mason 4.14% and documentation described above.
WPP ESOPs 3.99% Legal & General 3.33% Going concern Barclays 3.01% The trustees of the ESOPs are entirely independent.
It is the Companys intention that the total number UK company law requires the directors to consider whether of shares held in the ESOPs at any one time is such as may be required to satisfy outstanding incentive plan share awards but allowing for a contingency element e. g. to deal with hirings in the course of a it is appropriate to adopt the financial statements on the year.
The number of shares held in the ESOPs as at 31 December 2004 is 51,657,256. basis that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
As part of its normal business practice, the Group prepares The disclosed interests of all of the above refer to the annual and longer-term plans and in reviewing this respective combined holdings of those entities and to information and in particular the 2005 three-year plan and interests associated with them.
budget the directors believe that the Company and the The Company has not been notied of any other Group have adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
Therefore the Company and the Group continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Re-election of directors Details of the directors who, whether under the Articles of Association of the Company or otherwise, are to retire and who offer themselves for re-election are set out on page 93 and also in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election by share owners at least every three years.
