While we have not yet achieved these goals, we continue to work towards their realisation.
In order to do better, How we behave we are looking at what can be done to bring us closer to our objectives in a manner that best serves the interests of Corporate responsibility our share owners.
Each of our goals requires co-ordinated effort across five continents.
This is made more complicated by WPPs management structure that devolves a great deal of management responsibility and discretion to our operating companies.
In 2004, the value of our contribution to society cash contributions and pro bono work totalled 14.1 million.
This represents approximately 0.33% of revenue.
Of less signicance, but still part of our corporate Many of our US businesses run volunteering programs.
responsibility programme, are our environmental impact These programs are less common in the rest of the world and our suppliers corporate responsibility performance.
and where volunteering does take place, data on time spent is not usually captured.
We therefore cannot confirm that How we manage corporate responsibility risk and opportunity this goal has been achieved but we are improving the systems in this area.
Howard Paster is the Board director responsible for While we have systems for capturing compliance with assessing corporate responsibility risks.
He chairs WPPs marketing codes in many countries, we will continue to corporate responsibility committee, established in 2003, strive to achieve full reporting on this issue and to approach which advises on policy, monitors emerging issues and our goal of full compliance.
co-ordinates communication among Group companies.
We are close to achieving our environmental goals though The committee is made up of senior representatives from the purchasing of recycled paper is not yet common practice WPPs major business categories.
It identies and assesses in our major ofces.
significant corporate responsibility risks and opportunities for the business and believes it has adequate information The impact of our work to make this assessment.
The Groups operating companies have each nominated a corporate responsibility Marketing ethics representative responsible for compiling and reporting The work our operating companies produce is part of our data to the parent company and co-ordinating activity corporate responsibility performance.
They are expected to within operating companies.
comply with all laws, regulations and codes of marketing Howard provides an annual assessment of corporate practice.
Our Code of Business Conduct states that we will responsibility risks and performance to the Audit committee not knowingly create work which contains statements, and the Compensation committee.
suggestions or images offensive to general public decency During 2004, the Companys internal audit function and will give appropriate consideration to the impact of our included corporate responsibility risks in its reviews of work on minority segments of the population, whether that Group companies.
The audit function is also responsible minority be by race, religion, national origin, colour, sex, for collating our annual corporate responsibility survey sexual orientation, age or disability.
of operating companies and validating the data.
Many professionals from within WPP companies play WPPs corporate responsibility Policy and Code of an important part in developing and revising industry Business Conduct provide guidance for our people on codes in sensitive areas such as advertising to children and a wide range of ethical, social and environmental subjects.
the marketing of food and pharmaceutical products.
For Both documents are publicly available on our website example, Julie Halpin, CEO of the Geppetto Group, is a www.
board member of the Childrens Advertising Review Unit We have established an initial set of key performance in the US.
indicators KPIs in our corporate responsibility reports.
The vast majority of the thousands of marketing These cover some but not all of our significant issues.
campaigns we produce are published without complaint.
The corporate responsibility committee is continuing Occasionally complaints do occur relating to matters of taste to investigate the most appropriate KPIs in the or fact.
In most countries these are arbitrated by government remaining areas.
Our global statistics are incomplete In 2004, we set ourselves four ongoing corporate but we have identied only 50 infringements of marketing responsibility goals.
These were: codes in 17 countries from the tens of thousands of Contribution to society Undertake pro bono work and advertisements prepared by Group companies.
make donations to charity to a value of 0.4% of revenue.
Employee volunteering Achieve an average rate of Privacy employee volunteering equivalent to one day per person Our market research and direct marketing agencies use each year.
consumer data to study lifestyles, purchasing habits and Marketing ethics Comply with all laws and industry target direct marketing campaigns.
Privacy is therefore an codes governing marketing material and to track our important issue.
Our operating companies comply with performance globally to establish how we are doing.
national data protection laws and marketing codes of Environment Calculate climate impact, purchase practice such as the UK Data Protection Act and the EU recycled paper and install recycling facilities in 10 of Data Protection Directive.
