Corporate responsibility Business impact WPP regards corporate responsibility as significant to the future success of its business.
Our clients are multinational and leading national companies for whom corporate responsibility is becoming a business norm.
The health of brands is increasingly associated with the reputation of the parent company towards the environment and society.
Ethically-conscious consumers are exercising their discretion by choosing brands from companies with good track records.
Investors are asking about a companys corporate responsibility practices in order to gauge how risks are being managed.
Leading companies seek suppliers who can partner with them to achieve high standards of corporate responsibility and help them receive recognition for their work.
This has already impacted WPP when competing for new business.
We think the trend will increase since the underlying causes of public concern such as global warming and poverty in the developing world are becoming more acute.
In 2004, WPP published a second Corporate Responsibility Report which documents our approach, performance and goals.
The Report provides our clients and prospective clients with evidence about how we are implementing our stated values.
When engaging with clients on corporate responsibility we can now provide facts and data.
Our third Report will be published in September 2005.
Our significant issues We consult widely and use our judgement to identify the most important corporate responsibility issues for WPP.
This includes regular dialogue with clients and investors.
During 2004 we also participated in a formal stakeholder survey undertaken by consultants for the UK Media Sector Forum.
WPPs three most significant corporate responsibility issues are: The impact of our work including marketing ethics, compliance with marketing standards, protection of consumer privacy, social and cause-related marketing.
Employment including diversity and equal opportunities, business ethics, employee development, remuneration, communication, and health and safety.
Social investment including pro bono work, donations to charity and employee volunteering.
The Board considers that these issues represent opportunities for WPP to enhance its reputation with existing and future clients and our people and to strengthen its business.
In the event of poor performance or serious and high-prole failures, the first two of these could also present a potential reputational risk to the business.
