continues to be led by Asia Pacic, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, Russia and the CIS countries, even Operating and financial Western Europe looks set to continue the improvement seen in the second half of 2004, the UK especially so, given the review general election.
2006 should benefit from the mini-quadrennial impact of Review of operations the mid-term US Congressional elections, the FIFA World Cup and Winter Olympics in Turin.
2007 should also benefit from the build-up to the US Presidential elections and the Beijing Olympics in 2008, which, as a maxi-quadrennial year, should be a very strong one, buoyed by those events plus heavy US political advertising and the European Football Championships.
Future prospects In the short-term, growth in advertising and marketing The world economy continued to grow in 2004, after the services expenditure may remain in low to medium single pickup in 2003, driven by the US, Asia Pacic, Latin digit territory, given the low inationary environment, America, the Middle East, Russia and the CIS countries.
concentrating distribution and consequent lack of pricing As a result, your Company has performed at record levels.
In this climate, procurement pressure continues and Whilst like-for-like revenues have grown beyond market the increasing proportion of fee remuneration dampens revenue expectations, like-for-like average headcount has remained growth on cyclical upturns and moderates on downturns.
However, there continues to be significant opportunities in the Following this productivity improvement, the Groups area of outsourcing clients marketing activities, consolidating margins at both the preand postincentive levels have client budgets and capitalising on competitive weaknesses.
In addition, given improved levels addition, spending amongst the packaged goods, pharmaceutical, of operating profit and margin, incentive pools and variable oil and energy, government the government is the largest staff costs have now been re-built, after being diminished advertiser in the UK market and price-value retail sectors, by the recession.
This will improve operational gearing and which remained relatively resilient in the recession of 2001 exibility in 2005 and beyond.
and 2002, have been buttressed by increased activity in As usual our budgets for 2005 have been prepared previously recession-affected sectors like technology, financial on a conservative basis, largely excluding new business, services, media and entertainment and telecommunications.
particularly in advertising and media investment In the long-term, the outlook appears very favourable.
They predict improvements in like-for-like Overcapacity of production in most sectors and the revenues in the range of 3-4%, with balanced growth in the shortage of human capital, the developments in new first and second half of the year.
They also indicate similar technologies and media, the growth in importance of growth for both advertising and marketing services revenues.
internal communications, the continued strength of the US In the first quarter of 2005 reported revenues rose by economy and the need to inuence distribution, underpin over 16%.
Constant currency revenues were up over 16% the need for our clients to continue to differentiate their primarily reecting strong organic growth and a first-time products and services both tangibly and intangibly.
contribution from Grey from 7 March.
The impact of Moreover, the growth of the BRICs Brazil, Russia, India currency in the first quarter of 2005 was minimal.
On a and China economies, will add significant opportunities like-for-like basis, excluding acquisitions and currency in Asia Pacic, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East uctuations, revenues were up almost 6%.
and Central and Eastern Europe.
Advertising and marketing Net new business billings of 875 million $1.62 billion services expenditure as a proportion of gross national were won during the first quarter of 2005. products should resume its growth and bust through the Net debt at 31 March 2005 was 938 million, compared cyclical high established in 2000. with 825 million at 31 March 2004.
Average net debt in Given these short-term and long-term trends, your Company the first quarter of 2005 was 586 million compared to has three strategic priorities.
In the short-term, having 826 million in 2004, at 2005 exchange rates.
In January weathered the recession, to capitalise on the 2004 up-turn: 2005 the $288m 3% convertible bond issued by Y&R in in the medium-term, to continue to integrate successfully the 2000 was redeemed at par from existing resources, resulting mergers with Y&R and Grey: and nally, in the long-term, in the expiry of the associated conversion rights into 16.3 to continue to develop its businesses in the faster-growing million WPP shares.
In the 12 months to 31 March 2005, geographical areas of Asia Pacic, Latin America, Africa the Groups free cash ow was 572 million.
Over the same and the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe and period, the Groups expenditure on capital, acquisitions, in the faster-growing functional areas of marketing services, share re-purchases and cancellations was 646 million particularly direct, internet, interactive and market research.
including a 384 million gross cash payment for Grey.
Incentive plans for 2005 will again focus more on operating Worldwide economic conditions are set to continue to profit growth than historically, in order to stimulate top-line improve in 2005 the only economic worry being whether growth, although objectives will continue to include twin deficits, commodity price ination and the weak dollar, operating margin improvement, improvement in staff costs might destabilise the US economy.
This years prospects, to revenue ratios and qualitative Group objectives, including therefore, look okay, with worldwide advertising and co-ordination, talent management and succession planning.
marketing services spending set to rise by at least 2-3% with your company expected to grow at 3-4% and therefore Paul Richardson increasing share.
Although growth in the world economy Group finance director 126 WPP Annual Report 2004 In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the Company may include forward-looking statements as dened in the Reform Act in oral or written public statements issued by or on behalf of the Company.
These forward-looking statements may include, among other things, plans, objectives, projections and anticipated future economic performance based on assumptions and the like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Important factors which may cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of compensation, government compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts of terrorism, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In light of these and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included in this document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
WPP Annual Report 2004 127 Our 2004 financial statements 128 WPP Annual Report 2004 WPP Annual Report 2004 129
