Basis of consolidation Our 2004 financial statements The consolidated financial statements include the results of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made up to the same accounting date.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of during the year are included or excluded from the profit and loss account from the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
Goodwill and intangible xed assets Intangible xed assets comprise goodwill and certain acquired separable corporate brand names.
These assets are carried at historic cost at historic exchange rates Accounting policies less any provisions for amortisation or impairment.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value attributed The financial statements have been prepared in accordance to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom over the fair value of the underlying net assets at the date UK GAAP.
No changes have been made to the accounting of their acquisition.
In accordance with FRS 10 Goodwill policies since the preceding year other than the adoption of and intangible assets, for acquisitions made on or after UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
1 January 1998, goodwill has been capitalised as an UITF 38 requires the classication of the cost of shares intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior held by the Groups ESOP trusts as a deduction from share to that date was written off to reserves in accordance owners funds: previously these were shown within xed with the accounting standard then in force.
On disposal or asset investments.
Additionally, UITF 38 has changed the closure of a business, the attributable amount of goodwill method of calculating the charge to the profit and loss previously written off to reserves is included in determining account arising from certain of the Groups incentive plans, the profit or loss on disposal.
satisfied by the award of shares in the Group from one of the Corporate brand names acquired as part of acquisitions ESOPs.
Previously, this charge was based on the cash cost of business are capitalised separately from goodwill as to the Group of acquiring these shares in the open market, intangible xed assets if their value can be measured reliably to be subsequently delivered to individuals on satisfactory on initial recognition.
completion of the performance criteria relating to the award.
For certain acquisitions, where the directors consider it Under UITF 38, this charge should be based upon the appropriate, goodwill is amortised over its useful life up to a intrinsic value market value of the shares at grant date.
20-year period, from the date of acquisition.
The remaining Following the implementation of UITF 38, the Group goodwill and intangible assets of the Group are considered has restated its consolidated profit and loss account for to have an indefinite economic life because of the institutional the year ended 31 December 2002 to increase operating nature of the corporate brand names, their proven ability to costs by 12.4 million, and its consolidated balance sheet maintain market leadership and profitable operations over for the years ended 31 December 2003 to reduce net assets long periods of time and WPPs commitment to develop and by 251.8 million and 31 December 2002 to reduce net enhance their value.
The carrying value of these intangible assets by 280.7 million.
There was no material impact on assets will continue to be reviewed annually for impairment the profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December and adjusted to the recoverable amount if required.
The consolidated cash ow statement for the years Goodwill impairment is assessed by comparing the carrying ended 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2002 has also value of goodwill to the net present value of future cashows been restated to show the purchase of own shares by the derived from the underlying assets using a projection period ESOP Trusts within nancing activities.
Previously these of up to five years for each income generating unit.
After purchases were shown within capital expenditure and the projection period, growth rates of nominal GDP are financial investment.
generally assumed for each income generating unit.
In certain A summary of the Groups principal accounting policies instances, projection periods of up to 10 years may be used is set out below.
if management believes the longer period is more appropriate A reconciliation to non-GAAP measures of performance to assess the carrying value of goodwill and reect the is set out in note 28 to the financial statements on page 150 economic cycles that occur within the global markets and 151. in which the Group operates.
The financial statements depart from the specic requirement of companies legislation to amortise goodwill Basis of accounting and presentation of financial statements over a nite period in order to give a true and fair view.
The directors consider this to be necessary for the reasons The financial statements are prepared under the historical given above.
Because of the indefinite life of these intangible cost convention.
assets, it is not possible to quantify its impact.
However, for illustrative purposes only, if the Group were to change its accounting policy and regard all intangible assets as having a limited useful economic life, and the useful economic life 130 WPP Annual Report 2004 it chose was 20 years, then the resulting impact on the profit Debtors and loss account in 2004 would have been an amortisation Debtors are stated net of provisions for bad and charge of 260.0 million 2003: 250.0 million, 2002: doubtful debts.
231.0 million compared with a reported 42.5 million 2003: 33.0 million, 2002: 32.0 million.
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of Derivative financial instruments earnouts are based on the directors best estimates of future obligations, which are dependent on the future performance The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce of the interests acquired and assume the operating companies exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate improve profits in line with directors estimates.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative earnouts are to be settled by cash consideration, the fair financial instruments for speculative purposes.
value of the consideration is obtained by discounting to For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated present value the amounts expected to be payable in the as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual foreign future.
The resulting interest charge is included within net currency assets or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
interest payable and similar charges.
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
Tangible xed assets Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account or as adjustments Tangible xed assets are shown at cost less accumulated to the carrying amount of xed assets, only when the depreciation and any provision for impairment with the hedged transaction has itself been reected in the Groups exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a straightinstrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows: or a probable commitment and must change the nature Freehold buildings 2% per annum: of the interest rate by converting a xed rate to a variable Leasehold land and buildings over the term of the lease rate or vice versa.
Interest differentials under these swaps or life of the asset, if shorter: are recognised by adjusting net interest payable over the Fixtures, ttings and equipment 10-33% per annum: periods of the contracts.
Debt Investments Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds Except as stated below, xed asset investments are shown after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is at cost less impairment.
increased by the finance cost in respect of the accounting Impairment of goodwill on associate undertakings, period and reduced by payments made in the period.
included within xed asset investments, represents a Convertible debt is reported as a liability unless conversion permanent diminution of the carrying value of that goodwill.
No gain or loss is recognised on conversion.
WPP considers the market value of listed investments and other business and economic factors in determining whether a permanent diminution of value has occurred.
Turnover, cost of sales and revenue recognition The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate undertakings is included in the consolidated profit and loss Turnover billings comprises the gross amounts billed to account and the Groups share of net assets is shown within clients in respect of commission-based income together xed asset investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
The with the total of other fees earned.
Cost of sales comprises Groups share of the profits less losses and net assets is based media payments and production costs.
Revenue comprises on current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted commission and fees earned in respect of turnover.
Direct to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
costs include fees paid to external suppliers where they are Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost retained to perform part or all of a specic project for a and net realisable value.
client and the resulting expenditure is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Turnover and revenue are stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
Stocks and work in progress Work in progress is valued at cost or on a percentage of completion basis.
Cost includes outlays incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete assignments.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs where appropriate.
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
WPP Annual Report 2004 131 Substantially all services are provided on a xed price Our 2004 financial statements basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge Accounting policies continued where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a project are signicantly above the labour hours quoted in the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, the surcharge will be included in the total revenue base on which to measure proportional performance when the actual threshold is reached provided that collectibility is reasonable assured.
Public relations & public affairs and Branding & identity, Healthcare and Specialist communications Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services to be performed subject to specic agreement.
Revenue is Advertising and Media investment management recognised when the service is performed, in accordance Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue placements and fees for advertising services.
Traditionally, is recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome the Groups advertising clients were charged a standard can be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including commission on their total media and production in the profit and loss account revenue and related costs expenditure.
In recent years, however, this has tended as contract activity progresses.
to become a matter of individual negotiation.
Revenue may therefore consist of various arrangements involving commissions, fees, incentive-based revenue or a combination of the three, as agreed upon with each client.
Current taxation Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, in Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current rates.
accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the Deferred taxation quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when differences that have originated but not reversed at the the incentive is received receivable.
balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more taxation in the future or a Information, insight & consultancy right to pay less taxation in the future have occurred at Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences performed for market research contracts is based on between the Groups taxable profits and its results as stated proportional performance.
In assessing contract in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
gains and losses in taxation assessments in periods different Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of from those in which they are recognised in the financial performance.
The primary input of all work performed statements.
A net deferred taxation asset is regarded as under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the relationship between labour and cost, there is normally a basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more direct relationship between costs incurred and the proportion likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits of the contract performed to date.
Costs incurred as a from which the future reversal of the underlying timing proportion of expected total costs is used as an initial differences can be deducted.
This indicative Deferred taxation is measured at the average tax rates proportional performance measure is always subsequently that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing validated against other more subjective criteria i. e. relevant differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and output measures such as the percentage of interviews laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by completed, percentage of reports delivered to a client and the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is measured the achievement of any project milestones stipulated in the on a non-discounted basis.
In the event of divergence between the objective and more subjective measures, the more subjective measures take precedence since these are output measures.
Incentive plans While most of the studies provided in connection with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken The Groups share based incentive plans are accounted for in response to an individual clients or group of clients in accordance with Urgent Issues Task Force UITF specications, in certain instances a study may be developed Abstract 17 Employee Share Schemes Revised and UITF as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to a broad client Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
For these transactions, revenue is recognised when the based incentive plans are satisfied by the award of shares product is delivered.
Where the terms of transaction provide in the Group from one of the Groups ESOP Trusts, the for licensing the product on a subscription basis, revenue is relevant charge is based upon the intrinsic value market recognised over the subscription period on a straight-line value of the shares at grant date, less any consideration basis or, if applicable, based on usage.
to be received from the employee.
The resulting cost is 132 WPP Annual Report 2004 charged to the profit and loss account over the period to Translation of foreign currencies which the employees performance relates.
Where awards Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading are contingent upon future events other than continued activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of employment an assessment of the likelihood of these the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated conditions being achieved is made at the end of each in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the reporting period and an appropriate provision made.
Foreign currency gains and losses are credited or charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
The profit and loss accounts of overseas Pension costs subsidiary undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at average exchange rates and the year-end net assets of The Group accounts for pension schemes in accordance with these companies are translated at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the For dened contribution schemes, contributions are opening net assets, and on foreign currency borrowings to charged to the profit and loss account as payable in respect the extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such of the accounting period.
operations, and results for the year are reported in the For dened benefit schemes the amounts charged to Statement of total recognised gains and losses.
operating profit are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account if the benets have vested.
If the benets have not vested, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest cost and the expected return on assets are shown as a net amount of other finance costs or credits adjacent to interest.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Where dened benefit schemes are funded, the assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting dened benefit asset or liability, net of the related deferred taxation, is presented separately after other net assets on the face of the balance sheet.
Finance leases Where assets are nanced by leasing agreements that give rights approximating to ownership finance leases the assets are treated as if they have been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the profit and loss account on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the profit and loss account as it is incurred.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis.
Any premium or discount on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease or until the date of the first rent review.
