Bob Jeffrey Chief executive officer JWT Last year, Unilever, a client of ours for 102 years, awarded the New York ofce the Caress JWT and Vaseline Intensive Care brands, and gave us the Knorr business in 18 additional European markets.
Kraft consolidated its coffee and cheese brands with us in Italy and Spain, building on our 82-year union.
Seventy-fouryear client, Nestl, selected our Chicago ofce to handle the Stouffer Red Box account, and t JWT, we have a rich history of early this year, consolidated its Aero, Double rsts, from being the first agency Cream, Milky Bar, Quality Street and Baci to establish research and accountbrands with us in the UK.
And our business planning departments to being the with Pzer, which has worked with us since first to create ads that used sex 1962, continues to grow.
appeal and celebrity endorsements, We also expanded our 61-year-old from being the first to develop a commercial relationship with our largest client, Ford.
television program to being the first to buy a In October, JWT Detroit launched one of TV roadblock.
For the past 140 years, JWT the biggest integrated marketing campaigns has invented and re-invented the way the in the auto brands 101-year existence.
The advertising industry does business.
ongoing effort is introducing six new vehicles, And, in my first year as CEO, I sought to including the Escape Hybrid, Freestyle and return JWT to its pioneering roots of dening Mustang, using a variety of means, from the future rather than chasing it.
As a result, television, print and online ads to product we made significant strides on the new business, integration in TV programs, sports events, talent and creative fronts.
In 2004, we increased our revenue and As clients increasingly use non-traditional market share, thanks to gaining more business forms of media to reach elusive consumers, from new clients, like Tourism Ireland and we aim to strengthen our promotional, direct Welchs, and existing ones, including Unilever marketing and interactive services to capitalize and Ford.
on the growing demand for such expertise.
Two of our most significant global wins last Towards this end, in December 2004 we year were HSBC and Samsung.
In May 2004, consolidated our customer relationship HSBC selected JWT to handle its advertising marketing offerings under one roof, following a five-month competition.
The global operation, run by financial services account represented one of the Philip Greeneld, has ofces in 18 markets, largest wins in our history.
And, in November including the US, Spain, the Middle East, Brazil 2004, JWT landed account management and Japan, working on clients such as Shell, responsibilities for Samsung.
In both pitches, 3M and the Diamond Trading Company.
we collaborated with other WPP companies.
In addition to delivering solutions across These wins illustrate the strength of our global multiple media platforms, raising the level of network at meeting the needs of multinational creativity remains a top priority for us.
In each instance, we were involved in we scored some major creative coups last year: building a multi-continent, multi-disciplinary We landed a major branding assignment from team to pitch and subsequently service the Vodafone: we won our first Outdoor Grand respective accounts.
Prix at the Cannes International Advertising Being large enough yet nimble enough to Festival for Kuala Lumpurs Missile Car respond to global clients is not new for us.
installation for Action Channel 9 News: and Weve been practicing it for years.
But, theres in December, Campaign magazine cited our nothing that validates our proficiency at it more ever-improving creative reputation.
than earning incremental business from our These accomplishments wouldnt have been existing worldwide roster.
possible without our most valuable asset, our WPP Annual Report 2004 31 How were doing Reports from our operating brands JWT Young & Rubicam Brands talent.
And since talent begets talent, weve year ago, with the symbolic taken great pains to attract and retain the best change to the name of Young & people.
We made several high-level creative Rubicam Brands, we recharged and management hires last year.
And we will our focus and commitment to continue to solidify our leadership ranks, our collaborative community especially in the critical area of creative.
JWT Worldwide president Michael Maedel We strengthened each of our companies, and I kicked off 2005 by elevating Craig Davis which resulted in strong growth.
Organic to chief creative officer Worldwide.
This is a growth from our global client partners was in part of JWTs transformation into an agency the double digits.
profits increased across all where creative lives squarely in the middle.
Cohn & Wolfe, Sudler & Since his promotion, Craig previously our Hennessey, Wunderman and Landor led the chief creative officer for Europe, Middle East group with extremely vital growth.
and Africa has recruited top-notch creative We brought in new leadership in two of leaders for our HSBC account and for the our companies.
Tom Nides joined at the end Gulf region, Southeast Asia, Poland and of the year as the new global chairman and Central Eastern Europe.
Signaling our commitment to change from We also brought new leadership to Bravo, the inside out, we also unveiled a new logo with the appointment of Gary Bassell, who and corporate identity at the start of 2005. is focusing on the development of multicultural After amassing a number of versions of our communications.
name over the decades, we have returned to We named Gord McLean president of the most succinct and recognized iteration: Global Client Partner Services to give our JWT.
While perhaps the most visible and client partners access to all of our brands, obvious expression of the changes afoot here, and in early 2005 gave him the additional it is the least important.
responsibility as CEO of Y&R North America.
What is of utmost signicance is our new We worked together to bring in new point of view that recognizes that time is at business, with the major win of Microsoft a premium, and advertising needs to focus revealing the power of the Young & Rubicam on buying peoples time.
We are cultural Brands concept.
We worked together, sharing anthropologists, and were in the business research and resources, experience and wisdom.
of creating insights and ideas that are able In an environment that is wholly to claim a disproportionate share of peoples transforming brand-consumer relationships, time.
It is incumbent upon us to craft our collaborative model is helping our client communications for our clients that inspire partners redene the times, places and content active involvement that engage, rather than of their interactions with their customers.
This fresh way of thinking addresses No work symbolized that better than Meet an ever-changing media landscape and an the Lucky Ones, a lm-based interactive increasingly in-control consumer, and it brings web experience with the brand that drove JWT and its heritage of rsts into the future.
record sales of the Mercury SUV.
Each of our companies has its own piece Bob Jeffrey of the Young & Rubicam Brands story to tell.
32 WPP Annual Report 2004 Ann Fudge Chairman and chief executive officer Young & Rubicam Brands Y&R The EMEA region recorded its best performance for many years, not least in the The story of 2004 at Y&R is one about new-business arena in which 2004 proved a change and resilience.
We started the year with record year.
Two of the largest wins were the the big loss of Burger King.
We ended the year MTN mobile telephone business in South maintaining revenue and delivering a profit Africa, which promises to develop into one increase, although client losses suffered at the of the biggest pan-African accounts, and end of 2004 and beginning of 2005 will clearly FreeMove, a pan-European win of the mobile impact the performance of the agency in 2005. roaming alliance formed by Orange, T-Mobile, Y&R began to redene the way an agency Telecom Italia and Telefonica.
significant local needs to work in our times with an operating successes included Czech Telecom Prague, structure built around its clients, a channelLottomatica Milan, Philip Morris and neutral lter and the ability to deploy resources Sunrise Zurich and Wrigleys Solano from any part of the network.
We redened our London, Frankfurt and Bucharest.
brief as Ideas Before Advertising, Ideas Beyond New leadership was established in several key Advertising.
Michael Patti stepped up to vice markets France, Spain and Turkey.
In addition, chairman of Y&R and began deep hands-on a new leadership team in the UK took over involvement to sharpen our creative product after a careful transition process lasting nearly a around the world.
As a result of this and other changes the In North America, we created a single, region ended the year with a much-enhanced borderless, boundary-less agency organized balance of strengths across geographies.
around a unied client-based P&L to deliver the A further priority the highest standards of right teams and the right resources to our client effective creative work paid off handsomely partners.
The unied North America operation with the region almost trebling its number of showed its potential by successfully defending national and international creative awards: the 7UP brand, which resulted in being 126 compared with the 44 reported in 2003. awarded the launch of the new 7UP Plus brand.
The UK was also named The Institute of We brought in new talent with the experience Practitioners in Advertisings joint Effectiveness and exuberance for channel-neutral Agency of the Year, winning four of the communications and new, high-level brand competitions awards at its first attempt.
We appointed Mary Maroun 2004 was a year of growth for Y&R in the North American managing partner of the Latin America.
It marked the first full year of New York agency.
New business wins included the new Y&R in Brazil resulting in the leading Weight Watchers, ToysRUs and several agency in that market by ad spend.
The largest income and Wunderman performed strongly in Mexico.
challenge in New York for 2005 will be to We strengthened our position in Chile by replace revenue lost by AT&Ts decision to increasing our equity to 100% and the agency exit the consumer market.
continued to deliver strong results.
Argentina Y&Rs Chicago ofce helped Miller Lite continues enjoying a recovery thanks to a more continue its growth trend with award-winning stable economic environment.
In Detroit, a more integrated operation have stabilized and Uruguay and Puerto Rico to deliver channel-neutral solutions was created continued to perform well.
work coming out of this new model brought Growth in the region has been driven by both improved results for Mercury.
Irvine added our Global Client Partners like Colgate, Ford, Callaway Golf, was named agency of record for Telefonica, Danone and Chevron Texaco and Microsofts Xbox and MSN digital marketing Key Local Client Partners like Casas Bahia in business, and carved out new territory for Land Brazil, Ripley in Peru and Chile, Avon and Bimbo Rover with a viral and integrated campaign.
in Mexico, Dell and Mattel in Miami, Mendez & The losses of Sony and Jaguar in the first Co. Heineken in Puerto Rico and many others.
quarter of 2005 provide an additional challenge We initiated a Creative Leadership program to revenue in 2005. with our first meeting in Buenos Aires in WPP Annual Report 2004 33 How were doing Reports from our operating brands Devices and Home Entertainment businesses.
Drawing on resources and talent of 20 Young & Rubicam ofces, Team Microsoft completed 5,000 projects and expects the scope of work to Brands grow as relationships solidify.
With an estimated 40% of Wundermans business now digital, clients embracing this channel are as diverse as their programs.
Lincoln Mercurys edgy Meet the Lucky Ones October 2004.
Argentina, Chile, Dominican web lm series received critical acclaim in the Republic, Mexico and Uruguay, were advertising press.
Motorolas HelloMoto online recognized as Agency of the Year in their platform not only transformed the brand, it respective markets.
keeps customers in 70 countries coming back.
There were key developments in Y&R Asia.
Pzers pzerforliving web experience is so Given the importance of global clients, Dentsu practical and relevant that customers join and and Young & Rubicam agreed to rebrand the actively participate in the program.
joint venture as Y&R Asia, which gives the Large global accounts and premiere local network single focus and consistency.
After and regional businesses continued to thrive several years of disappointing revenue and throughout Europe, the Middle East and profit performance, there was a significant Africa EMEA.
In addition to a multi-million turnaround in 2004.
This was achieved dollar pan-European program for Ford, organically with major existing clients, strong regional brands, such as Diageo, including both global clients like Colgate and Sky TV, Barilla, Swisscom Broadcast, San Caltex and the networks most important local Miguel and hotels.
com were added to the clients, Singtel, Samsung, Measat, Cerebos roster.
Creative throughout Europe was and DTAC.
Y&Rs critical China operations recognized with 50 awards, including the had a very successful year, with our ofces in coveted Grand Prix for Star Alliance at the Shanghai, Beijing and Guangzhou all delivering UKs DMA Royal Mail Awards.
Data services remains at the core of our In 2004 the Australian and New Zealand business as marketers want more measurable ofces recorded another exceptional year in value from their data strategies.
In response, terms of new business and revenue growth.
KnowledgeBase Marketing transformed its Consistently residing up near or at the top database marketing business into a strategy-led, of the new business table, Y&R recorded such full-service operation delivering sophisticated wins as Suncorp, Sensis, NSW Tourism and analytics that drive higher customer revenues, Skyy Vodka.
increase retention and develop more effective customer management strategies.
Ann Fudge Demand in health care is also intensifying.
Pzer chose Wunderman Media as its planning Wunderman and buying agency in the US, anchoring our healthcare portfolio.
New wins from Novartis Demand for targeted customer communications and AstraZeneca added critical mass.
In and data services, across the full media spectrum, addition, RTC Relationship Marketing, our fueled Wundermans growth in 2004.
The most mid-sized agency, won a multi-million account significant development was Microsofts for Abbott Laboratories Humira brand and commitment to relationship marketing.
It successfully extended its expertise to health signaled the importance of customer relationships insurance and nutrition with wins from AARP in the fast-changing technology world.
It also Health Care Options and Weight Watchers.
put Wunderman at the core of Team Microsoft, The depth of Wundermans leadership team formed in July to service Microsofts Servers continues to play a significant role in managing and Tools, MSN, Mobility and Embedded the dynamics of the business and sets the stage 34 WPP Annual Report 2004 for future growth.
Mid-year, David Sable added 2004 was another banner year for thought the responsibility for Wundermans EMEA leadership.
CEO and corporate reputation region.
In November, Steve Zammarchi took research was performed in the US, Europe and over as head of our agship New York ofce.
Research topics included reputation By year-end, Alexei Orlov was given a global recovery, EU enlargement, boardroom IT-deficit, role in running Wundermans Ford business.
and US presidential and EU parliamentary With strong leadership, a vibrant brand and elections.
Our research and acclaimed experts an expansive global network, Wunderman maintained a high prole in the worlds leading is confident in future growth as demand for media outlets.
relationship marketing services escalates in In 2004, Burson-Marsteller won numerous the years ahead.
We received the highest score for overall client satisfaction Daniel Morel in PRWeeks 2004 Agency Excellence Survey Chairman and Chief executive officer and were ranked number one for international Wunderman communications in the Harris Impulse Public Relations Client Survey.
Other honors included Burson-Marsteller winning PRWeeks Global Campaign of the Year and two IPRA Golden World Awards, Growth, record results for clients, thought and achieving Media magazines top-rank for leadership and innovation best describe Bursonour Asia-Pacic network.
We continued to strengthen Burson-Marsteller today stands stronger our brand by retaining and growing client than ever before and we look forward to relationships, expanding areas of expertise and the opportunities that lie ahead in 2005 services, and blazing new trails in CEO and and beyond.
The end of 2004 also brought a change in leadership, with Tom Nides Thomas R. Nides appointed worldwide Chairman and Chief executive officer president and CEO.
Burson-Marstellar We expanded our roster of blue-chip client partners to include Old Navy, Quest Landor Diagnostics, Jacuzzi, McGraw-Hill, MBNA, Lundbeck Pharmaceuticals, Visa Latin America 2004 was a year of continued transformation and Caribbean, and L-3 Communications for Landor across its global network.
We also clients helped to strengthen our position around deepened long-term relationships with clients the world, while an internal awards program, such as Accenture, SAP, U. S. Treasury Bureau personnel appointments in key positions and of Engraving and Printing, Merrill Lynch, expansion into key markets also contributed HP, Pzer, and American Battle Monuments to another successful year.
Commission National World War II Memorial.
Following five years of afliate relationship The year saw new integrated partnerships with Sydneys LKS Design, Landor completed with Young & Rubicam Brands and sister the acquisition of LKS in November and WPP companies.
appointed Michael Graham, a seasoned Landor Innovation has always been a core ingredient veteran, to the role of managing director.
of B-Ms growth and 2004 was no exception.
Landor Sydney brings to the network not only We broadened Litigation PR, Risk Management a significant presence in the market, but also a and Restructuring groups and built upon the portfolio of major branding programs and a corporate governance and CSR consulting complementary strategic vision.
New services ranged from Global the Australian Stock Exchange, Fosters Group, Defense and B4B Supply Chain Management Qantas, Fuji Xerox and Diageo.
to online crisis resources and a global obesity In Shanghai, the booming market called for and nutrition network.
In response to that, WPP Annual Report 2004 35 How were doing Reports from our operating brands from GSK, Pzer and Roche: and new global assignments from Roche GSK, Pzer, Young & Rubicam Boehringer Ingelheim, Amgen, and Nabi.
The US ofces performed exceptionally Brands well this past year.
Sudler & Hennessey Communications, IntraMed and Avenue-e, Precept and Sentrix, HealthAnswers and the FCG Institute all exceeded expectations in their a talented team of marketing and branding performance this past year.
consultants and designers was put in place.
With this increased growth, Sudler & Hennessey While still small, this team will derive necessary has added new leadership and services to its support from the Hong Kong ofce, one of the ranks.
In Europe, Geert van Loocke joined the largest in the network.
company as our new managing director for Network-wide wins for clients included S&H Europe.
In the US, Paul Giroux joined Abbott Laboratories, Best Buy, Brand Madrid, S&H as our new head of Strategic Planning FedEx Kinkos, GS Group, HSBC, Johnnie and Market Analysis.
We promoted Bruno Walker, Lenovo, the NFL, Ricoh, Samsung, Stucchi, our co-creative director for S&H Telefonica, Verizon and Visa International.
Milan, to the new position of global creative To strengthen the strategic component of director.
Also in the US, we expanded our our offering worldwide, Mark Kennedy was medical education offerings with the addition of appointed executive director, Brand Strategy, Current Medical Directions, a New York-based while Lori Rosenwasser was appointed medical education rm, to the S&H family.
In Tokyo, With all the work done by Sudler & Motoi Komatsu, succeeded Kazumoto Kawada Hennessey ofces around the world in 2004, as managing director.
Kawada was an integral much of it was recognized for its creative part of the Asia-Pacic team for 27 years.
In 2004, S&H ofces in Asia, Spencer Mains was appointed chief technology Europe and North America were honored officer, directing all aspects of technology and with Gold, Silver or Bronze medals from the knowledge sharing on a worldwide basis.
following competitions: The Rx Club Awards, New York Festivals Globals, Manny Awards, Craig Branigan MM&M Awards, PMT Readers Choice Chief executive officer Awards, National Pubblico Awards, and the Landor Targa DOro Awards.
Sudler & Hennessey Jed Beitler Chairman and Chief executive officer While there were a number of significant events Sudler & Hennessey that led to Sudler & Hennesseys having a terric year in 2004, the one factor that stands Bravo out above all others was the sheer number of times S&H ofces were called on by both For The Bravo Group, a multicultural group existing as well as new clients to pitch or of agencies, 2004 marked a year of change at directly work on new business.
the top with the recruitment of Gary Bassell Among the many new business wins in 2004, as chairman and CEO to replace the departing some that stand out include new business from Daisy Expsito-Ulla, who stepped down after Nycomed, Numico, Novartis and Schering AG 23 years.
Garys appointment coincided with in Europe: Boehringer Ingelheim in Europe the December 2004 release of Bravo clients and the US: new assignments from Pzer in The Census 2000 Special Report We the Australia, China, Japan, Europe and the US: People: Hispanics in the United States, an new assignments in the US from Cephalon, in-depth portrait of the group served by our Galderma and Forest: new assignments in Asia Hispanic agency, Bravo.
Garys stewardship, 36 WPP Annual Report 2004 looking forward, will lead Bravo into this with the creativity and service of a boutique.
newest iteration of the multicultural age, as he Cohn & Wolfe maintains its creative reputation oversees Bravo, along with Mosaica and through on-going creative training throughout Mendoza Dillon.
As Gary told his new staff, the organization.
The agency helps clients nd Having been exiled on the far periphery of solutions for building and defending brands in American pop culture, as well as business and healthcare, consumer products and services, marketing agendas for decades, ethnic America technology and business-to-business companies.
Cohn & Wolfes mission to be best in market Other key hires at Bravo in early 2005 that has propelled key ofces in Europe and the US reshaped top management include Mark to become local leaders, which has reinforced Sadowski as chief financial officer, Mercedes the global strength of the organization.
It plans Colon as VP, director of human resources and to continue its high organic growth rate, but is Kathy Whitlock, as VP, managing director as also planning to grow through acquisition.
well as the promotions of Nilda Velez and Jos E. Arandia to VP, managing directors.
In Donna Imperato addition, in recognition of her increased role, President and chief executive officer Linda fide Jesus-Cutler, president of Bravo since 2002, added chief operating officer to her title.
Robinson Lerer & Montgomery In 2004, Bravos new account wins included Foster Farms, Visa and Time Warner In 2004, Robinson Lerer & Montgomery, a Roadrunner.
Bravo garnered the title Hispanic New York-based strategic communications Agency of Record with Lifetime Television and company, once again produced strong results.
In corporate positioning and strategic Notably, Bravo is celebrating its twenty-fifth marketing campaigns, crisis management, anniversary.
Looking ahead to 2005, The Bravo regulatory and governance issues and financial Group will capitalize on the new American transactions, the rm continued to build its mainstream emerging, as, in aggregate numbers, reputation for high-quality strategic multicultural Americans will comprise this new communications advice and services to the majority in just a few decades.
This seismic senior managements of leading domestic shift in American demographics is already and international companies.
being felt today in designated market areas and younger demographic segments where the Linda Robinson majority already has shifted to non-Anglo Chairman Robinson Lerer & Montgomery Saxon ethnic Americans.
Brand Buzz Craig Branigan Chief executive officer In 2004, Brand Buzz continued to thrive.
Two of Brand Buzzs founders were named to lead Cohn & Wolfe the agency: Rick Eiserman as CEO and Jennifer Kohl as COO.
The agency brought in both In its second year of new leadership, Cohn & senior creative and brand planning talent.
Wolfe continued to outperform the market It was a year of significant expansion.
Growth with significant growth, again beating its came from both existing clients and new ones.
The agencys LG Electronics consolidated all its US ad duties expertise and focus on brand building has to Brand Buzz, which means the agency now won it several high-prole clients regionally handles consumer electronics, mobile phones and globally including American Express, O, and appliances.
Brand Buzz added the New 2 Diageo, Serono, Genentech and Starbucks.
York Sports Club, as well as assignments Cohn & Wolfes position as the industrys from the HBO and Discovery cable channels.
only big-tique allows it to compete with large Twinings Tea awarded its advertising and and small shops, offering big agency resources promotion assignments to Brand Buzz, WPP Annual Report 2004 37 How were doing Reports from our operating brands Grey Global Group marking the first time the London-based client he year 2004 was extraordinary for is supporting the brand in the US and setting Grey.
We won new accounts in every the stage for the companys 300-year region of the world.
We grew with anniversary next year.
outstanding clients by advancing their business.
Our work bristled Rick Eiserman with intelligence, startling wit and Chief executive officer unique communications ideas.
We continued Brand Buzz to invest in people and capabilities that expand our service offering.
As a result, Grey had a Kang & Lee very good year and, even more important, most of our clients did well.
2004 was a banner year for Kang & Lee We also took an historic step for our future, Advertising.
On the new business front, the our people and our clients.
In September, we agency won new accounts from AT&T announced we were joining forces with WPP.
Wireless, TD Waterhouse and a new creative We concluded our merger in March 2005, assignment from Western Union, HSBC, staying one Grey group of companies, simply and Oxford Health Plans.
In July 2004, structured as a separate brand and singularly Kang & Lee relaunched its agency website focused on our clients business, as always.
com which has become the top We are delighted to be part of WPP.
Our new online destination on the web for information partnership makes both companies stronger.
In the first It presents exciting new opportunities for our nine months, the site has registered over 1.1 clients, giving them prodigious new resources, million hits from over 13,000 unique users.
and for our people, enhancing their career More than 700 marketing and advertising opportunities and making Grey a more powerful executives have registered on the site, and the company overall.
In addition, both companies agency has pitched numerous new business have many values in common.
We both believe, opportunities from relationships first forged for instance, that the quality of our thinking online.
In 2005, Kang & Lee celebrates its and our creative work are paramount to our twentieth anniversary as the pioneer in Asian clients success and, as a result, our own.
What made Grey so attractive to WPP, we believe, is our unique set of core strengths: Eliot Kang Smart, dedicated, highly talented and Founder and chief executive officer client-focused employees.
Kang & Lee A global network spanning over 80 countries and four geographical regions headed by outstanding, empowered leaders.
One strong, top-tier global company in each important communications discipline, led by remarkable entrepreneurs who know each other well and understand the value clients place on coordinating and synchronizing all marketing efforts on behalf of their brands.
38 WPP Annual Report 2004 Ed Meyer Chairman and chief executive officer Grey Global Group Some of the largest and best clients in the collaboratively with WPP companies now that world businesses that believe in the power of we are part of the Group.
Grey people to build their brands.
Here are highlights of each of our companies.
Our history Grey Worldwide Grey has come a long way from the little studio Grey Worldwide is one of the ten largest started with a $100 loan in 1917 by an advertising agencies in the world, with ofces in intelligent, street-savvy entrepreneur not quite over 80 countries.
It has one overriding focus: 20 years old.
By the time I arrived in 1956, it to produce truly great creative work for our had become a mid-sized US private advertising clients, to produce work that soars, makes us agency.
Grey began to assemble an impressive proud and fosters the brand relationship with roster of national and then multinational clients consumers work that helps our clients by making their brands into household names.
Key clients include Procter & Gamble, Today we work with such powerhouse marketers GlaxoSmithKline, Nokia, Wyeth, Brown & as Procter & Gamble, GlaxoSmithKline, Nokia, Williamson BAT, Volkswagen, BellSouth, Warner Bros.
BAT, Wyeth, BellSouth, Diageo, Diageo, Novartis, Sara Lee, Panasonic, Olive Novartis, Volkswagen, Boehringer Ingelheim, Garden, 3M, Canon and Kmart.
Since 1917, Pzer and Adobe, to name a few.
it has built some of the best-known brands We took Grey Advertising public in 1965, in America and the world with persuasive our stock selling at $9.75 per share.
We are proud of our creative next four decades, we built our network, from around the world in 2004: it includes discipline by discipline, country by country, and some of our best work ever.
Grey grew to become one of the largest global marketing communications companies in the MediaCom world.
In 2000, we established Grey Global Group as a holding company to serve as the MediaCom is one of the worlds largest strategic parent of all our communications properties.
media planning and buying companies.
We From 1965, our first year as a public provide business-building media solutions for company, to 2003, the year of our last annual some of the worlds largest advertisers, including report, our revenues grew from $18.6 million Volkswagen, Nokia, GlaxoSmithKline, Procter to $1.3 billion.
On March 3, 2005, the last day & Gamble, Warner Bros.
Shell, BAT Brown & our stock traded, its final price approached Williamson, Pharmacia & Upjohn, ConAgra, $1,200 a share.
That was a very proud day for Hasbro, Cendant, LVMH and 3M.
We expect all the people who had helped build Grey and MediaComs future to be even brighter as part all our companies over the years.
Our companies Grey Synchronized Partners We have only one top-tier company in each Its never been more important to optimize the of the communications disciplines needed to power of the brand message than in todays touch consumers today.
As a result, our people ercely competitive, increasingly fragmented across all disciplines communicate easily, share marketplace.
Grey Synchronized Partners a common culture that is uniquely Grey and combines and leverages the multi-channel work together like a strong, enthusiastic family.
marketing spectrum covering relationship We believe this collaborative structure has been marketing, brand development, point-of-decision essential in servicing our clients at the highest marketing, sales promotion and interactive possible level and gives us a special advantage marketing and simplies the management in delivering strategically coordinated messages of these complex programs for clients.
GSP across all the critical consumer touchpoints.
includes Grey Direct, Grey Interactive, G2 This experience positions us well to work Worldwide and the J.
WPP Annual Report 2004 39 How were doing Reports from our operating brands Grey Healthcare Group Grey Global Group Grey Healthcare Group is one of the worlds leading healthcare marketing agencies.
GHGs global capabilities include advertising, branding, DTP DTC communications, medical education, e-commerce new media programs, publications planning, consumer healthcare research and Grey Direct contract sales.
GHG deepened its offerings Grey Direct is a global leader in relationship in 2004 with several strategic acquisitions: marketing and ROI optimization.
With full-service agencies s&kGrey in Germany, Grey capabilities in 35 countries, Grey Direct Healthcare Sorento in India and Tokyo-based provides profit-generating ofine and online Grey Healthcare Japan: and the award-winning direct marketing solutions to a wealth of medical illustration company, Hurd Studios.
leading companies, including GlaxoSmithKline, In addition, GHG won one of the industrys United Airlines, Nokia, Xerox, BellSouth, Pzer, largest and most sought-after assignments, Procter & Gamble, Oracle, Novartis and Adobe.
Exubera, co-marketed by Pzer and SanoAventis: won MedAd News 2005 Best Grey Interactive Professional Advertisement for Wyeths Refacto Grey Interactive offers interactive marketing and was nominated for 2005 Agency of the solutions in online branding, relationship Year.
Major clients include Allergan, marketing, e-commerce and advertising.
Grey AstraZeneca, Aventis, Boehringer Ingelheim, has interactive capabilities in 32 countries.
Eli Lilly, Forest Laboratories, GlaxoSmithKline, Major clients: Deutsche Bank, Zurich Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Pzer, Insurance, Melitta, GlaxoSmithKline, Oracle, Procter & Gamble and Wyeth.
UBS, Schering, Harris Direct, Kmart, Liz Claiborne, Mars, Inc. Novartis Gerber, GCI Group Procter & Gamble, Progressive Insurance, E-Plus, Coca-Cola, Deutsche Post, Volkswagen GCI Group is a global leader in the public and Loyalty Partners Payback.
relations industry with deep expertise in five practices: healthcare, corporate, consumer G2 Worldwide marketing, technology and media relations and G2 Worldwide is one of the fastest-growing winner of PR Weeks Award 2004 Campaign of companies in brand development and point-ofthe Year for its work on behalf of Medtronic.
It won over 40 creative The rm serves a broad base of multinational awards in 2004.
consumer clients including Cingular, Dell, Major clients include BAT, Procter & Gamble, Lowes, InterContinental Hotels Group, GlaxoSmithKline, Coca-Cola, BellSouth RadioShack, Schick, Boehringer Ingelheim and Kmart.
Brown develops sales promotion and marketing programs that reach consumers Alliance is a leading entertainment marketing in-store, where the majority of brand decisions and strategic partnership agency.
It offers clients a full range of creative high-prole branded entertainment programs and strategic services focused on the joint in the worlds of motion pictures, television, interests of both manufacturers and retailers.
Alliance also develops Major clients include Kraft Nabisco, Dairy strategic partnerships for brands to increase Management, Diageo, American Egg Board, their communication pipeline and build brand Bic, Gerber, Pzer, Rayovac and Remington.
Alliance executes all the programs they create while pairing 40 WPP Annual Report 2004 clients with some of the worlds most popular Alberts to the new position of chairman ECD, entertainers, entertainment properties and brands.
and appointing Karen Ellis to the new position Major brands include Cover Girl, Motorola, of European creative director Beauty.
In AsiaClairol, Hasbro, Mercedes-Benz, Pantene, Pacic, we signicantly strengthened regional Pepsi-Cola, Max Factor, Pringles, American leadership with the appointment of Mike Express and MGM Mirage.
Alliance is the Amour, previously EVP global account director recipient of many industry accolades including on Mars, to CEO of GGG Asia Pacic.
Emmys, Tellys, Platinum Records and American In summary, 2004 was a year of achievement Business Awards.
I have every confidence we can continue to thrive.
I also believe our new WING Latino Group relationship with WPP will make us stronger.
In my view, our greatest strength is our people WING Latino Group is a full-service marketing their remarkable talent and ability to build our communications company specializing in clients brands and advance their fortunes.
targeting the ever-growing and evolving Latino Their imagination and passion continue to market in the US.
It is a community of inspire me in my forty-ninth year at Grey.
multicultural intellect and talent collaboratively working around new ideas across advertising, Ed Meyer media planning and marketing disciplines.
WING Latino handles some of the worlds most important clients, including Procter & Gamble, Kmart, Panasonic, Diageo North America and Allianz Life.
G WHIZ G WHIZ is an entertainment-driven advertising agency specializing in making brands meaningful and desirable to the youth market.
Its clients target audiences range from kids and teens to 20-somethings.
G WHIZ works for a wide range of prominent companies including Progressive Auto Insurance, Dairy Queen, US Cellular Wireless, Topps Confections, Cards & Toys, 3M Kids Products, Kid Designs, Zapf Creation Dolls, Konami Video Games, KNex Toys, Majesco Video Games, SNK Video Games, Dessert Beauty, Clean Fragrances, Lip Fusion and Kaplan Test Prep.
Our people Outstanding people joined us in key management positions in 2004.
In North America, we energized our creative drive at Grey Worldwide when Tim Mellors, who had been chief creative officer of Grey London in the late 1990s, rejoined us as agency chief creative officer for the region.
In the EMEA region, we enriched Londons creative air by promoting executive creative director David WPP Annual Report 2004 41 Andy Berlin Chairman and chief executive officer How were doing Red Cell Reports from our operating brands British governments Central Ofce of Information and from UK retailer BHS.
Red Cell In Paris, Les Ouvriers Red Cell added assignments from multinational clients such as Manpower and DeBeers and has been appointed to introduce Ocean Spray cranberry juice in France.
In Italy, Red Cell Milan added business from Yamaha, Cameo the Italian branch of German-based Dr. Oetker Group ed Cell shared center stage as a and Mitsubishi Electric air conditioning.
key creative resource in the teams In Latin America, Red Cells recently WPP applied to a number of minted Buenos Aires ofce, WM Red Cell, important worldwide new business has won assignments from Coca-Cola in pitches in 2004, including HSBC Argentina and regionally in Latin America, and Samsung.
Reecting the and has won Nextel and Unilever business networks exibility and entrepreneurial in Argentina.
Meanwhile, in Asia Pacic, the character, its ofces were also busy adding Batey network added the Red Cell name to its meaningful assignments at the local level.
identity, re-branding itself as Batey Red Cell This demonstrates the duality of Red Cell.
and further cementing the networks presence It competes against traditional global agency in this key growth market.
networks when the opportunity is presented, Red Cell management is committed to while at the same time offering clients valued rening and strengthening its offer as WPPs creative and strategic thinking from local micro-network.
This means developing agencies that are recognized as top-tier players and adding to the talent pool of the agency, in their markets.
cultivating business across the network when Red Cells ability to succeed both globally it makes sense for clients, and enhancing the and locally is due to the marriage of the reputation and client rosters of the agencies that entrepreneurial nature of the people in its collaborate to give Red Cell its unique culture.
ofces and their ability to augment that spirit by utilizing the deep resources of WPP.
Red Andy Berlin Cells agships remain largely under the direction of their founders, who sustain the spirit, productivity and creative excellence that made it successful in the first place.
Clients are presented with an array of first-generation entrepreneurs collaborating to create a more nimble alternative to big networks and one that is also distinct from conventional creative networks.
In addition to playing a key creative and strategic role in WPPs HSBC and Samsung wins, Red Cells agships continue to attract new clients and new assignments from current clients.
In the US, Berlin Cameron Red Cell extended its relationship with Coca-Cola with the launch of C2 last year, and continued to create advertising for Cokes agship Classic brand.
The ofce also added lead creative and strategic responsibilities on Samsungs global branding business.
In addition to HSBC, HHCL Red Cell also won impressive assignments from the 42 WPP Annual Report 2004 Jeffrey Yu President Bates Asia Asias role as an emerging technology center is another focus for us.
We created a new Bates Asia practice, Bates Asia Technology, in conjunction with other WPP technology agencies: JWT Technology in the US and Banner Corporation in the UK.
Together we won the Texas Instruments global business.
Our intention for this global alliance is to bring global technology brands to Asia, and promote the emerging n 2003, we set our objective to refocus, Asian technology brands to the world.
refresh and rebuild Bates Asia.
2004 has Finally, we have set in motion the merger been the year of rebuilding in earnest of 141 Asia with Ogilvy Activation to form in every way we can.
the biggest activation network in Asia.
The In doing this, we have been very new 141 will provide expertise in the areas conscious that of the BRIC countries of sales promotion, event marketing, viral Brazil, Russia, India and China, two are in marketing, eldwork marketing and trade Asia.
As an Asia-focused agency group, we marketing.
This unique network is already have an increasing strength in the two empires attracting the attention of new clients, and of Asias future growth China and India.
pioneering a new area of marketing and In India, our rebuilt agency led by new CEO, communication that will continue to grow Subhash Kamath, is applying the Bates recipe in importance in this part of the world.
of local insight and world-class creativity with great success: and mid-year our planned merger Jeffrey Yu with Enterprise Nexus will move us well up into the top 10 ranking.
Meanwhile in China we continued to win both local and global business: for the latter most notably as a key component of Team HSBC, HSBCs new credit card joint venture with Chinas Bank of Communications.
As we move forward, China and India will remain strong points of focus.
As an Asia agency, we take pride that Asia is now an export market for creative solutions.
In 2004, Bates Asia developed creative work for international clients including Nokia and its fashion and mobile entry phone.
The TV and print work was shot in Brazil by fashion icon David LaChapelle, and is running in all regions of the world.
WPP Annual Report 2004 43 Irwin Gotlieb Chief executive officer How were doing GroupM Reports from our operating brands need hi res pic Media investment management GroupM roupM, the worlds leading GroupM to more effectively manage growth full service media investment into the future.
Powered by GroupM, MAXUS management entity, is the parent is enjoying the full advantage of the shared company for WPPs consolidated resources within the Group.
media assets which include In addition, early in 2005, we made a Mediaedge:cia and MindShare.
strategic minority investment in KR Media, the Media has always been particularly scalenew Paris-based media investment management dependent, and GroupM was designed for company, founded by Bruno Kemoun and the intelligent management of scale in order Eryck Rebbouh.
We have great expectations to generate benets for our clients and the concerning the success of this new venture.
Scale allows for greater As we look ahead to 2005, we are excited investment in systems, research and insights, as to welcome the strong talent, capabilities well as in practice and talent development.
Most and incremental scale of MediaCom as it importantly, our scale in combination with our transitions into GroupM during the course deep marketplace knowledge and strong vendor of the year.
With MediaCom, we are the relationships, allows us to negotiate and trade largest media agency group in the world by a more effectively on behalf of our clients.
significant margin based on RECMA estimates.
2004, only the second year since our Our practice will continue to be challenged formation, was a remarkable year.
Mediaedge:cia by the volatility of the media communications and MindShare each enjoyed outstanding landscape in which we operate.
One can success, as detailed by the respective scarcely pick up a trade or general market managements of each company in the following journal without seeing an article that sections.
They didnt just win business.
Each speculates on the impact of fragmentation, company won massive, high-prole assignments TiVo DVR, VOD, mobile platforms and other from the worlds most sophisticated and media changes on media consumption behavior and savvy clients, as well as significant consolidations communications effectiveness.
The latter are in many ways Consequently, we continue to deal with even more rewarding, because they reect on the issues as diverse as communications mix reality of our performance and the benets we modeling where our ongoing collaboration deliver.
As a result, we continue to enjoy a terric with our colleagues at WPPs Kantar Group record of client retention.
We are a reection will ensure that we provide the most robust of the sophistication of our clients and our and innovative solutions and breakthrough companies can be extremely proud of what has strategy and implementation.
These enormous been and what continues to be accomplished.
challenges help us develop and attract Our performance is a strong validation of remarkably talented people who can ourish the strategy behind GroupM.
It is a reection in this environment.
It is they who have so of the efforts by the management teams at each effectively contributed to our performance of our companies, who with their colleagues, to date, and it is they who will keep us participated in its design and implementation.
pushing the leading edge of our business In 2004, we also successfully launched a new as we move forward.
network, MAXUS, which has taken its place alongside our two current networks, allowing Irwin Gotlieb 44 WPP Annual Report 2004 Dominic Proctor Chief executive officer MindShare MindShare t the end of last years report I said We invested record amounts in training that we were confident of another and development at all levels of the company, record year in 2004.
Well, we with a growing emphasis on cross-border were not to be disappointed!
90% of our managers have been 2004 was a fantastic year for with us since the start and we want to ensure MindShare and our sister that the next generations of managers are companies.
We grew more than any other appointed from within.
competitor, we retained all our significant There is no doubt that our greatest clients, we retained our key talent, we retained competitive strength is our global network our Global Media Agency of the Year position and the way it works as one.
Working in that and we had a lot of fun along the way.
way is incredibly invigorating and rewarding At the heart of this success is our strategy for our people but it needs constant investment to encourage the twin trends of consolidation in infrastructure, so we have strengthened and globalization of clients media accounts.
our global client service, talent management, Increasingly, the work we do for clients is the media trading and IT capabilities to help meet enduring backbone of their global marketing that challenge.
efforts, and in 2004 we began to achieve our And of course we invested in developing ambition of being lead marketing partner for and expanding our key analytics and research some of those clients.
Some of the most valued work 2004 was our seventh year, but as we we do is in the areas of marketing analytics grow up we continue to recognize the need and consumer insights, reecting the fact that to continuously expand our range of services, creativity and accountability have always been both in response to the market and, the twin pillars of our company, and always occasionally, to change the market.
have made very significant investments in Media is a wonderfully interesting sector to new services, specialisms and infrastructure to work in as technology and imagination drive see us through the next seven years and beyond.
We thank everybody We launched MindShare Entertainment to in our company for making 2004 another better connect our clients brands with relevant record year and we thank our clients for content opportunities.
Based in Hollywood, keeping the faith.
this business is rapidly becoming a global network of specialists, again reecting the Dominic Proctor global nature of our business.
The same is true of Performance, our sponsorship and sports marketing business, which has shown extremely rapid growth in 2004 and will develop a global network in 2005.
WPP Annual Report 2004 45 Charles Courtier Executive chairman How were doing Mediaedge:cia Reports from our operating brands our performance on behalf of brand owners.
Our own performance has been good, the Mediaedge:cia results for our clients even better.
Clients also benefit from our extensive global reach 4,000 highly talented people in 199 ofces in 79 countries and from us being part of GroupM, the worlds leading media investment management group.
Our clients are already experiencing the kind heer momentum best of impact we can have on their business.
Our describes our performance challenge now is to ensure that we can deliver in 2004.
It was our bestthe best of Mediaedge:cia with our rapidly ever year with significant expanding range of creative, analytical and client wins all around our implementation capabilities to all of our clients, global network.
New wherever and whenever they need us.
clients include powerful brands such as Ferrero To do this, we started two major initiatives Rocher, Heinz, Paramount, Rmy Cointreau, during 2004.
These life-changing programs ToysRUs and WeightWatchers.
We have also will enable us to deliver to our clients an been successful in developing our existing unparalleled breadth and depth of expertise clients across geography and across different and disciplines: communication disciplines.
We are signicantly enhancing our Our momentum continues to build and Interaction CRM, online search and marketing has already delivered, within the first three services, including production and Content months of 2005, our largest-ever client win services sponsorship and event marketing, Cingular in the US.
Weve also enjoyed some programming, branded content, entertainment important breakthroughs in Asia Pacic, and cause-related marketing and already have Central Europe and Latin America, including more than 500 specialists exclusively working the appointment by existing client, Novartis, in these two areas.
These developments are across all their business units in three enhanced by a fast-growing modelling business continents.
Its all evidence of our ambitions focused on return on investment.
We launched the Mediaedge:cia Navigator Global, regional and local clients are Academy a major professional development attracted to our distinctive Communications program on Communications Planning Planning and Implementation approach designed to empower our people to exploit because it unites brands and consumers fully our unique Navigator operating system through ever more engaging, enriching and on behalf of our clients.
Some 400 people a  experiences that generate year across four continents will pass through genuine commercial value for brand owners.
the five-day Academy course, including all our Everybody in marketing knows that consumers senior management team.
want to be more than just passive recipients of brand messages: they want brands to play an active role in their lives and want to participate, to have real and important relationships with them.
Clients need and want ideas and effectiveness.
At Mediaedge:cia, were in the enviable position of being able not only to develop strategic communications plans to meet these consumer needs but also to deliver on them through our extraordinary set of implementation capabilities and to measure 46 WPP Annual Report 2004 Mainardo fide Nardis Chief executive officer Mediaedge:cia 2004 also saw us bring in significant fresh talent and skills from other parts of the industry were hungry to learn!
and also promote or move around our existing top talent so that we can share expertise and experience and have the right people in the right places.
All our people are focused on attracting new clients and especially on working closer, harder and more effectively for our existing clients so we can become more valuable to them, and this results in us managing a greater share of their investment in media and communication services.
Evidence of this is our developing relationships with a number of our key clients including Beiersdorf, Citibank, DHL, Energizer, Henkel, Sony Ericsson and Wrigleys.
Our work was recognised last year not only by clients but also by our peers in the industry with many global, regional and local awards for effectiveness and creativity.
This was acknowledged by independent surveys from Gunn and RECMA positioning us at the very top in terms of awards won across different markets and in vitality against our competitors.
But were hungry and were ambitious.
Theres more we can achieve.
Most importantly, we have momentum.
Charles Courtier and Mainardo fide Nardis WPP Annual Report 2004 47 Eric Salama Chairman and chief executive officer How were doing The Kantar Group Reports from our operating brands Information, insight & consultancy The Kantar Group e and more importantly our Overview stakeholders had reasons to be satisfied in 2004.
Our Financially, we did well in 2004.
Our margin financial performance was performance was particularly good in the good, our clients experienced light of increased price competition and more innovation and procurement initiatives from clients.
Our consistency in delivery than ever before, our margins are now at higher levels than all of people benefited from greater investment in our major competitors in ad hoc research development, training and focus on their TNS, Ipsos, Synovate, NOP.
However, careers, and we executed well against our we are still at lower margin levels than some long-term strategy.
other companies such as VNU and GFK and, more importantly, lower than we ourselves know we should and could be.
We can be satisfied though not pleased with our revenue increase.
More than anything else this measure captures the extent to which our offer is suited to client needs, the extent to which we are price competitive, the extent to which we deliver against our promises, the degree to which we innovate with our clients.
On the softer side, a number of our companies were publicly recognised.
Millward Brown was recognised as Research Agency of The Decade by the US Advertising Research Foundation, and was named agency of the year in Mexico and Poland: Center Partners won numerous awards for its call centre performance: BPRI became only the second research rm ever to win the Queens Award For Enterprise.
IMRB was yet again the dominant player in the fast-growing Indian research market.
48 WPP Annual Report 2004 Client needs and Kantar strategy We are currently rolling out TOC in the US and aim to have TOC globally operational by 2007.
In last years Annual Report we wrote of Sharon Potter is taking on a new role as global clients who want insights which are actionable, CEO of TOC and we have assembled a team timely and value for money: and of clients of some of the nest operations people around.
who complain of an industry that is too At the same time we have accelerated our focused on data, which doesnt enable them growth in panels.
Lightspeed our internet panel to connect deeply with their customers and operation expanded its panel to cover 16 which doesnt make as big a contribution to million household members around the world their business as they need.
A year on, clients and continued its reputation for quality.
Over feel the same way but even more so.
Decision eight million surveys were carried out through makers in client organisations are still not Lightspeed during the year.
WebSurvey our being helped as much as they should and, specialist healthcare research operation has not surprisingly, the usefulness and cost of increased its physician panel in US and Europe to much research is being questioned.
over 75,000 and has added panels of managedFor us this represents an opportunity.
care professionals, nurses and pharmacists.
We know that the portfolio of companies And we began to leverage and integrate within Kantar is unique within the industry Cannondales which joined the Kantar Group in specialist consulting companies, research late 2004 Shopper Genetics frequent shopper agencies with deep specialist expertise in databases into a much wider range of category particular sectors and methodologies, and management and channel-related work.
a talent pool which is more diverse than anyone elses.
We also know that we have Our offers are getting more compelling been successful with clients such as Vodafone in helping shape major decisions in regard Two strands permeate everything we are doing.
to their handset strategy, their go-to-market We are improving our existing offers and we are strategy, pricing, communication approaches constantly on the lookout for ways to innovate.
Our In terms of the former, all of our companies strategy does not need changing it needs and client-facing teams are focused on more focus and consistency in execution.
improving the quality of the insights we are And so, a year on, we are focused on the generating, bringing the insights alive in terms same issues creating an infrastructure which of the way we communicate them to clients and is world beating and which can generate making sure that they are delivered in such a economies of scale, developing must have way as to enable decision makers to use them.
offers for our clients, improving the quality of And, in terms of the latter, our innovation our talent pool through training, development this year has included: and recruitment.
Our task will continue to The setting up of Added Value Group be a better and consistent execution of our through the merger of Added Value, icon and strategy so that our clients and people feel Diagnostic Research and making sure that their a better reality, not just hear better talk.
values of passion, energy and going beyond the So how are we doing in each of these areas?
obvious permeate everything they do.
The development of Channel Connect Our infrastructure is improving and Optimor as stronger offerings from Millward Brown in the areas of media and 2004 saw the creation of The Operations Centre spend optimisation.
TOC in the UK a consolidated capability The extension of Cannondales Power Ranking under single management covering all our aspects surveys, which are used by all of the worlds of scripting, data processing, eldwork.
This leading manufacturers to assess their relationship initiative is crucial in allowing us to invest heavily with the trade, to areas such as foodservice.
in technology and operations and deliver to clients The development of BPRIs global opinion the high quality, low cost data which they desire.
WPP Annual Report 2004 49 How were doing Reports from our operating brands focus, on improving the quality of our leadership capabilities, on bringing in people with talents The Kantar Group and capabilities we do not have enough of.
Our Kantar-wide survey of all employees revealed a group of people who are passionate about their work, loyal to their company and feeling stretched and challenged.
It also revealed areas in which we must improve, and we owe it to our people and our clients to make sure that New web-based ways of delivering retail we do all the things we talk about.
A leading-edge web-based system of product Full circle back to clients testing and a PDA-based way to measure consumption from Research International.
Unlike the advertising business, we do not often New syndicated oncology products and services see our output displayed publicly.
But we know from Mattson Jack and Da Vinci, and a new that 2004 was a good year in terms of the impact syndicated healthcare division IMAP at Ziment.
that our work has had on clients: in setting their Extending TGI as a tool for improving media strategic agendas: shaping their communication: planning into more than 50 markets.
developing new products and services: optimising Combining Henley Centres approach to their trade and media spend: helping them deliver segmentation with OgilvyOnes analysis of higher productivity from their employees: behavioural data to help clients get more robust deepening the loyalty and repurchase rates of and actionable insights.
their customers: setting prices for their products In parallel, at an operating companyand and services which have raised margins without Kantar-wide level we have created stronger losing customers: and setting key performance global account management structures.
These indicators KPIs against which they are measured structures are designed to help our clients roll internally.
We can take great satisfaction from out worldwide approaches in areas such as the private successes we have had in these areas.
advertising copy testing, concept testing and Our aim continues to be to extend the range segmentation, while allowing them to understand of occasions and the frequency with which we nuances in their customer needs at a local level.
can celebrate success together with our clients.
Together with the acquisition of businesses such as Cannondale, MaPS, Oracle a leading Eric Salama research rm in China and the development of AGBNielsen, the world leader in television audience measurement, we are in an excellent position to address emerging client needs and to do so globally.
Our talent pool is stronger We tell our clients that their brands are built through the quality of the interactions which they have with their customers and it is no different for us.
We have thousands of people and they each have hundreds, if not thousands, of interactions with our clients.
Each one of those is an opportunity to understand the client better, to provoke, help, inspire.
So, over the last two years, we have placed great emphasis on training and development, on individual career 50 WPP Annual Report 2004 Howard Paster Executive vice-president WPP Public relations & public affairs Public relations & public affairs Overview While the progress in 2004 vindicates WPPs confidence in the value of the public relations PPs public relations & public & public affairs businesses, and while we did affairs business performed meet our goal of improved performance in the well in 2004.
The sector had past year, it is also true that this is a sector in its first increase in revenue in which continued progress is essential.
four years, bringing an end As the sector strengthens, the demand to top-line erosion that for the best talent will accelerate.
WPP is began with the recession in 2001.
Even more working at the parent company level and encouraging, for the second year in a row the with the individual agencies to provide public relations & public affairs businesses competitive compensation, professional increased their margin appreciably in this growth, gratifying work experiences and case by more than 1% so that the sectors fresh intellectual leadership to attract and margin in 2004 was greater than 14% and retain the best talent.
consistent with the Group-wide margin.
We are also watching changes in client Public affairs and financial communications requirements closely in order to maintain our continued to be standout performers in the long-standing leadership in intellectual capital sector.
In the former group public affairs and innovative services.
As clients confront a Quinn Gillespie performed well in its first full highly uid marketplace they are looking to year in the Group, as did BKSH which has been our PR agencies to help them navigate in with WPP since the merger with Y&R five uncharted waters.
Our ability to meet that years ago.
Finsbury, Buchanan, and Robinson requirement, to be leaders and not followers Lerer & Montgomery continued to do well in will be tested in 2005 and will help determine financial and corporate communications.
As if we can build on the success of 2004. before, these single ofce agencies, along with the extremely successful Penn, Schoen & Berland, Howard Paster deliver our highest margins in the sector.
Corporate communications, including business-to-business marketing, reputation management, crisis and other special situations, continues to be a major factor in our public relations businesses.
Burson-Marsteller had a highly successful 2004 with clear distinction in this area, and Hill & Knowlton strengthened in the category in the last quarter of 2004.
Healthcare, including pharmaceuticals, and consumer marketing were major factors in the continued strong success of Cohn & Wolfe and Ogilvy Public Relations in 2004.
Among business sectors, pharmaceuticals and technology continue to be crucial to our public relations businesses.
WPP Annual Report 2004 51 Paul Taaffe Chairman and chief executive officer How were doing Hill & Knowlton Reports from our operating brands to offering new services commensurate with client need.
It reinvigorated its internal Hill & Knowlton communications offer in two regions, with H&K Canada introducing a new change management service offering.
H&K USA hired industry expert Barbara Edler to formalize its offer, Enterprise Change Communication, promoting an employees-first approach to help companies drive business success from the inside out lthough 2004 was a challenging with a focus on reputation, retention and results.
year, Hill & Knowlton deepened Infusing a deeper dimension to its technology its senior talent bench strength, capability, H&K hired Josh Reynolds to lead which by the last quarter, directly an industry analyst relations service.
led to significant new client wins, As well, carefully considered acquisitions and ensuring a solid start to 2005. ofce openings enhanced the geographic reach During the year, H&K secured new clients of H&K.
The rm acquired Sparks Noble to across all sectors and services, including Mary enhance H&K Canadas already number one Kay Inc. ATA, Deloitte, Wal-Mart, and Yahoo!
Bolstering the US public affairs as well as the expansion of several long-time network, H&K opened a Tallahassee ofce, clients Allstate, Ford and Mazda in the US.
adding to the countrys growing capital Hollinger Inc. and Severstal Steel joined in representation.
Also, expanding its consumer Canada, the Almond Board of California in marketing offer, H&K USA acquired Dome Asia Pacic and, in Europe, the London 2012 Communications, based in Chicago, whose Olympic bid, MEAG Real Estate Management founder Doug Dome was appointed head of GmbH, and Microsoft.
Latin Americas roster creative services for the US company.
grew with Sunbeam, Pzer, Turner Broadcasting Serving clients in the highly competitive and Intel.
technology sector, Blanc & Otus focused its The companys key client portfolio continued expertise in the four key practice areas of to include HP, Motorola, Procter & Gamble, enterprise technology, digital entertainment, and MCI.
H&Ks appointments and new hires were B&Os client roster included Agile, the Blu-ray paramount in 2004, including designations Disc Association, Fujitsu Software, Hitachi of new regional and practice chairs, two new Data Systems and Hyperion.
During the year, chief executives of a realigned Asia Pacic it garnered several industry awards, including region, and others critical to its worldwide the 2004 PR Innovation of the Year from PR new business and practice functions.
Andrew Week, a PRSA Compass Award for Best Laurence was promoted to chairman and CEO Business-to-Business Media Relations of Europe, Middle East and Africa, Elaine Campaign, and a Silver Mercury Excellence Cruikshanks was named director of the global Award for Best Business-to-Business Campaign.
public affairs practice, and Anthony BurgessWexler & Walker Public Policy Associates Webb moved to chief marketing officer.
continued its growth with a 9% increase in Recognized China expert, James B. revenue from 2003 to 2004.
Adding depth Heimowitz, joined as president and CEO of to its bench and building on the addition of North Asia and Vivian Lines was named Jack Howard, former Deputy Assistant to president and CEO of Southern Asia.
Latin the President for Legislative Affairs in 2003, America reorganized and reinforced its WWPPA added James C. Capretta from the operations in Brazil, Mexico and Puerto Rico, White House Ofce of Management and adding former newscaster Jennifer Wolff as Budget.
Capretta was the Presidents principal general manager of Puerto Rico.
budget officer for Medicare reform as well Responding to the market landscape and as all federal education, health, income corporate governance issues, H&K looked maintenance, labor and federal employee issues.
52 WPP Annual Report 2004 Penn, Schoen & Berland continued to Industry awards exemplied the outstanding expand its business briskly this year, opening a work done by the rm for its clients.
Europe Seattle ofce to work on Microsoft.
It added won several awards including the prestigious major new assignments for Verizon, McDonalds Pan European Consultancy of the Year by and Merck to major clients like Procter & The Holmes Report, the PR Report awards Gamble, BP and Vodafone.
The rm provides for terre des hommes and easyJet and a PRCA its clients with a combination of research and Certicate for Excellence for its work with strategic marketing and communications advice.
H&K Canada was once again named It also continued its political work with world Top 100 Employer.
And industry veteran, leaders in the UK, Asia, Latin America and Thomas Hoog, chairman of H&K USA, was Africa.
It is also making progress in media awarded the Gold Anvil by the PRSA for his research, working to help position movies for lifetime accomplishments.
major Hollywood studios, and test covers for In the true H&K spirit of giving and sharing, over 40 magazines titles.
many employees contributed to the victims of Hill & Knowlton deepened its China the tsunami.
The UK ofce provided some pro capabilities last year adding senior professionals bono support for its client, the Government of in public affairs, government relations and the Maldives, and the companys John Hill integrated brand strategies.
It expanded its Foundation has donated $30,000 to the Red five-year relationship with PetroChina and Cross.
The Washington DC ofce advised the provided media training for Chinas State Center for International Disaster Information Council Information Ofce and the Mayors on a global level and many other ofces Association.
In celebration of H&K Chinas worldwide reached out to clients in the affected twentieth anniversary, H&K rolled out its area offering support, assistance and goodwill.
Corporate Reputation Watch survey in that country, targeting Chinese business executives.
Paul Taaffe Sponsored by H&K and leading Chinese business publication, The Economic Observer, the survey examined corporate executive level C-Suite perspectives on issues in China such as corporate reputation, corporate social responsibility, and corporate governance issues.
And on the back of the rms Global Cool Hunt, we partnered with Seventeen magazine in China to run a quantitative version that examined the coolness of both Chinese brands and Western brands in China among young people.
WPP Annual Report 2004 53 Marcia Silverman Chief executive officer How were doing Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide Reports from our operating brands Dupont, FM Global, Hudson Highland, Microsoft and Scottish Development Ogilvy Public International.
We have worked hard to create global relationships and we have Relations Worldwide them with half of our top 20 clients.
Last year, we introduced a Strategy & Planning division in the US, led by managing director Steve Dahllof.
Over the course of the past year, it has grown to include senior fter turning the corner in 2003, counselors in all of our regions.
The group 2004 proved to be a year of has been a driving force in adding value to growth and exciting opportunities both existing clients and new business pursuits.
We continued the Ogilvy PR has long been known for creating quest for bringing on board the some of the most effective social marketing best talent in the business, put campaigns from programs for HIV AIDS to new leadership in place in Europe and Asia, The Heart Truth campaign which won Best expanded relationships with our top clients in Show at the SABRE Awards.
This year we and introduced compelling new offerings.
We established a formal social marketing practice, also built on our relationship with Ogilvy & led by Tom Beall, built upon the heritage and Mather Worldwide through 360 Degree Brand track record we have for developing groundTM Stewardship, which is a true differentiator breaking programs.
Our entertainment offering, BWR, celebrated During the past year, we attracted senior its twenty-fifth anniversary with the creation of counselors who are respected industry leaders.
Leveraging Among the top talent joining the rm in 2004 on its contacts in the entertainment community, were Christopher Graves as the president of B|W|R Product Placement & Integration Asia Pacic, Chris Atkins as head of the global provides a resource to clients of all WPP corporate practice and Kate Cronin as co-head companies looking for such a service.
While of the global healthcare practice.
2004 also saw the rm is known for representing some of the promotion of Scott Kronick to president of the most well-known talent in Hollywood, China and the return of Michael Law to the B|W|R also represents a number of companies, US from Southeast Asia in the position of including the new Wynn hotel in Las Vegas.
managing director of the California ofces.
As our twenty-fifth year begins, we look We had exciting client wins in all our regions forward to more success in producing great and practices, including new assignments from work for our clients.
We also want to look LG Electronics, Bausch & Lomb, DHL, back and thank some of our long-standing Hellmanns, Invest in France, Lenscrafters, clients, including American Forestry and Paper National Cancer Institute, Pzer, Seven Seas Association, American Furniture Manufacturers Multibionta, Sunglass Hut and Telefonica, to Association, CDC, Chlorine Chemical Council, name a few.
Our relationship with Unilever Merck, National Institutes of Health, Pzer grew in the US, and was one of our many and Society of American Florists.
All of these successes in consumer marketing.
The practice companies and organizations have been with experienced a resurgence under the leadership Ogilvy PR for more than seven years: some of Barby Siegel.
Our work with Unilever is a for as long as 18 years.
These long-term strong example of partnering with our sister relationships, paired with our newer assignments Ogilvy companies.
Another is the work being and talented staff, gives us all great confidence done in preparation of the opening of Hong that our next 25 years will surpass the success Kong Disneyland in 2005. we realized in our first 25 years.
In addition to the wins achieved in 2004, we expanded our relationships with some of our Marcia Silverman key clients, including Cendant, CFA Institute, 54 WPP Annual Report 2004 Dave Allen Chief executive officer Enterprise IG corporate branding projects.
Major assignments on behalf of JD Group, ABSA, Daimler Chrysler, Branding & and SABMiller were completed.
Our South African business won a Loerie Marketing identity Excellence Award and was Design and Integrated Agency of the Year.
In the Middle East, the Dubai ofce continued to grow steadily, winning business both in the United Arab Emirates and beyond, with significant new business from Saudi Arabia Enterprise IG and Kuwait.
New projects gained included Al Raji Bank and Kuwait Cinemas.
In response to the challenging market conditions, Enterprise IG continues to place creativity and The Americas talent at the heart of our business.
As a result, The Americas delivered a good performance by we have developed our multinational client base, building on deep long-term relationships with adding projects from American Express and clients such as Caterpillar, Cardinal Health, and Sara Lee Corporation, while maintaining strong American Express, and adding significant new relationships with Unilever, Masterfoods, SABMiller clients including Owens-Illinois, AMD, Harleyand Vodafone.
We have continued to attract and Davidson and EDS.
2004 also marked a dramatic retain some of the best talent in the industry: Alan increase in client engagements that leveraged Brew and Alexander Schubert joined as Worldwide Enterprise IGs involvement with global clients such president and CEO Germany respectively, while as Masterfoods, Vodafone, Reuters and Motorola.
John Mathers was promoted to CEO UK.
We have solidied our position as the global Asia Pacic brand agency by focusing strongly on the 2004 was a year of stability and growth for philosophy that great companies and their the region.
Our ofces in Tokyo and Bangkok brands are built on a Compelling Truth.
performed especially strongly, in concert with By continuously investing in the training of solid trading in Hong Kong, China, Taiwan our people and the hiring of individuals from and Singapore.
The new global partnership in a diverse range of backgrounds we always Australasia to form Designworks Enterprise IG provide our clients with innovative ideas that also introduced new leading talent to the region.
differentiate their brand and build lasting Corporate branding continued strongly with preference with all audiences.
major programs across the region, supported The company now has a global network by rapid growth in the retail brand experience of 27 ofces in 20 countries.
and consumer branding sectors with new work for key clients such as Unilever, Diageo, Europe, Middle East & Africa The Coca-Cola Company, Nestl, Motorola, Major European client assignments won in Harley Davidson and Levis.
2004 included those for Standard Chartered The regions strong design capability gained UK, BP UK, Castrol UK, OMX Sweden recognition via award-winning work from and Super fide Boer the Netherlands.
Taiwan and Singapore with Designworks However, trading was slow in most European Enterprise IG picking up the Design Week regions throughout the year, partly as a global best packaging award in 2004. consequence of the diminished volume of major corporate identity projects due to low M&A Addison activity.
One particular success was the award of Best Design Agency 2004, won by our Paris ofce.
2004 was an exceptionally successful year for Endorsed by the French National Ministry of Addison Corporate Marketing.
The company Culture, this honour is one of the most prestigious demonstrated robust client growth during design awards in France.
Our African business the year, winning 15 new clients including continues to be dominated by major local Anglo American, Equant, ING, London Stock WPP Annual Report 2004 55 Rodney Fitch Chairman How were doing Fitch Reports from our operating brands Branding & identity Exchange, Numico, Vodafone and Wincanton.
In addition, the company continued to expand Fitch its relationship with existing clients AstraZeneca, BAA, Cadbury Schweppes, Syngenta and Unilever.
2004 was our first full year as a member of the During the year a number of corporate WPP community and, while challenging on reporting awards were also won including several fronts, proved very satisfactory.
two League of American Communication We have steadily integrated our 19 studios Professionals awards for Syngenta and WPP, behind a One Fitch, one global studio strategy one CIB Best Annual Report Award, also for that has seen an increasing number of clients Syngenta, and the International ARC Award and projects serviced across several studios that and Pro Share Best Annual Report Award work to common values and a shared sense of for BAA.
At the same time we have increasingly been able to align our retail-led, consumerLambie-Nairn centric design offer with the needs of WPP community clients to beneficial effect.
Lambie-Nairn continued to win many of the most In April 2004 we acquired RPA, a leading US prestigious TV branding assignments awarded retail design rm and have very successfully during the year.
In particular, the company integrated this ne rm into our Ohio studio to maintained the expansion of its US business by create one of the leading retail design rms in winning the project to refresh the brand identity the US.
for The Weather Channel, including not only The general upbeat tone in the rm has helped the channels onand off-air identity but also us win some impressive projects from new clients the development of its advertising.
Other major as diverse as The Russian Post Ofce, Boeing TV assignments included The History Channel Aircraft, Cisco Systems, Unilever, Dixons Group and Discovery Kids, both of which were global and Gerber Baby Products.
Equally, we value our assignments, as well LCI in France and the continuing work with clients such as BAT, Bentley launch of AlHurra across 21 Arab countries.
Motors, Vodafone, Sprint, Carhartt, Microsoft Lambie-Nairn was also appointed by BT to and Respironics, a US health product group.
create the brand identity for a new product Financially, we have also made considerable and by Sainsburys to refresh its brand identity progress.
We consciously reduced our revenues as and act as creative consultants to its business.
we dispensed with unprofitable activities, reduced Other projects during the year included the our cost base and improved profitability.
The relaunch of the UK Governments online year ended strongly and 2005 has started well.
offering under the new name DirectGov, and Our business is undoubtedly a happier work for the DTI on Digital Switchover.
place to be and the quality of our work, our The company also continued its work as the awards and client satisfaction surveys provide lead branding agency for O, a company that evidence for this.
The case for innovative 2 openly credits the brand, created by Lambiedesign in the marketplace to help deliver Nairn, as key to its success.
consumer expectations has never been stronger.
At Fitch we are full of optimism.
Dave Allen Rodney Fitch 56 WPP Annual Report 2004 Matt Giegerich President and chief executive officer CommonHealth Healthcare Communications CommonHealth ommonHealths most visible, Our efforts continue to bear fruit.
With great powerful change in 2004 stemmed energy and focus from our talented employee from the launch of our new, unied base, in the past year we corporate strategy and identity.
Once again earned double-digit organic SM Collaborative Velocity growth on prior years base of business.
embodies the philosophy behind Won and earned more new business than in CommonHealths new approach to business any year in our history.
and is the tagline for the overall initiative.
Our Added 22 new corporate clients, including strategy directly addresses the complex new assignments from 3M, Boehringer Ingelheim, realities of healthcare marketing and the Bristol-Myers Squibb, Cephalon, Duramed, intensifying political, pipeline and profit Genentech, Quest Diagnostics and Watson.
pressures confronting our client base.
The Were assigned new work from each of our phrase itself is designed to capture the top-10 existing clients: Abbott, AstraZeneca, organizations unique ability to efficiently Berlex, GlaxoSmithKline, Merck, Johnson & mobilize talent and resources across our 13 Johnson, Novartis, Organon, Pzer and Roche.
business units to create inspiring, integrated Networked and integrated our activities and impactful communications campaigns better than ever before: more than half our that reach every healthcare stakeholder.
new business wins involved two or more Our rebranding effort has been met with CommonHealth companies.
overwhelmingly positive feedback and were Saw our consumer group, Quantum, named confident that CommonHealths new approach DTC Agency of the Year by DTC to doing business is not only the right course Perspectives magazine, for the second time.
of action for us, but reective of a business Won 53 creative awards.
model that will ultimately replace the fractured Launched Qi, our digital interactive amalgam of agency clusters often seen on the agency with client offerings ranging from service side of the business.
online research through planning, development, maintenance and ROI analysis of interactive campaigns.
Launched Altum, our fifth professional advertising promotion agency, focusing on the specic communication needs of high-science brands.
Helped brand and launch a continuing medical education offering on The Discovery Health Channel, providing continuing medical education programming on national television.
The launch involved a collaborative team from five of our operating companies.
WPP Annual Report 2004 57 How were doing Reports from our operating brands CommonHealth Specialist Communications Overview Amidst the churn of a constantly unfolding pecialist communications businesses marketplace, CommonHealth continues its performed well in 2004 by focusing quest to grow and stay at the forefront of on organic revenue growth and healthcare communications.
We remain margin improvement, as well as intensely focused on client needs, creative reorganizing underperforming units.
problem-solving, and the innovative mix of We continued to advance new skills and services required to drive brand strategically by: awareness, access and adoption.
Further developing the brands of our For the coming year, we see accelerating needs strongest businesses.
in clinical pipeline consulting, high-science Collaborating with the larger group medical and scientific strategy, patient education networks in response to increasing client and managed care marketing.
These skills and demand for integrated services.
services will grow and augment our current Creating businesses in new marketing strengths in creative brand-building, advertising disciplines.
and promotion, media planning and buying, medical education, relationship marketing, interactive services and market research.
CommonHealths united 35-year history of progress in healthcare communications including strong, steady growth over the past five years gives us a great deal of confidence and strength as we look forward.
We have become more interdependent, more powerful and more productive as an organization over the past year and there is every reason to believe that the interconnected business model and culture weve created will prove even more successful for us and for our clients in 2005 and beyond.
Matt Giegerich 58 WPP Annual Report 2004 Andrew Scott Chief operating officer International Specialist communications Interactive, promotion, and relationship marketing EWA continued to develop its data and relationship management services and recorded VML substantially grew its leadership position another strong performance in 2004.
Growth at the intersection of marketing and technology was boosted by new contracts with the in 2004.
Department of Health Welfare Food Unit significant new business wins included and developing existing clients.
As part of Young Mando Brand Assurance extended its global & Rubicam Brands Microsoft engagement, business with wins from Coca-Cola Austria, VML was awarded a key role with digital Coca-Cola Australia and pan-EU adoption customer relationship marketing and site from Danone.
UK successes included one of development initiatives on the Microsoft the largest British consumer promotions from business.
VMLs Microsoft work grew to Walkers crisps and the development of a include serving as lead development partner significant partnership with Avon cosmetics.
com and creating online Headcount Field Marketing maintained its experiences with both MSN and Mobile growth in 2004 adding new business from Embedded Devices MED business groups.
Centura Foods, HSBC and the Post Ofce In addition, VML added notable digital client while continuing to grow existing clients such partnerships with AC Nielsen, Blue Cross Blue as One.
Tel, BAA, COI, Masterfoods, Petplan Shield, and shared work via its Wunderman and Tropicana.
The COIs Department of partnership for Motorola and Lincoln-Mercury.
Works & Pensions asked Headcount to handle VML enjoyed continued growth among its high prole Direct Payment roadshow, several long-time clients, including interactive designed to drive awareness and educate the agency of record relationships with AMC public on the new method of payment for Theatres, Colgate-Palmolive, Bayer benets and pensions across the UK.
Additional work from Aston Martin and In terms of WPP partnerships and integration, Peugeot, as well as from existing clients VML enjoyed significant progress in 2004, Jaguar and Land Rover, helped reinforce primarily with Young & Rubicam Brands the automotive side of Warwicks business.
companies, and also in alliance with Wunderman, Elsewhere new client growth, and higher Mediaedge:cia and The Digital Edge.
levels of activity from existing clients such Finally, and noteworthy, VML ranked as Massey Ferguson, helped the company number 10 on the list of the Top 25 Best expand into new industry sectors.
Companies to Work for in America, among companies under 250 employees by the Society for Human Resource Management SHRM, and selected and ranked by the Great Place to Work Institute GPTW, the same organization that selects the Fortune 100 list.
Our promotion company, Einson Freeman, continued its strong growth trend, driven by major new assignments from LG Electronics and Pzer, as well as continued relationships with Alcoa, IBM and Lipton among others.
Solid collaboration with WPP companies such as JWT and Y&R has been the foundation of Einsons new business efforts.
In 2004, the agency again earned critical acclaim for its work with AT&T Wireless, winning a Gold Reggie for Best National Consumer Promotion as well as being awarded the prestigious EMMA Award for Best Overall Entertainment Promotion.
WPP Annual Report 2004 59 How were doing Reports from our operating brands 2004, winning a number of ofce development, shopping centre refurbishment, and university Specialist projects.
As well as advising UK clients, the company also worked internationally on the Communications t-out of Numicos new headquarters at the World Trade Centre in Schiphol, Amsterdam.
BDGworkfutures continued to consolidate its reputation as a leading strategic workplace design consultancy, with its work for Custom media  winning several industry awards.
The company continued to Forward maintained steady growth in 2004, develop its relationship with existing clients adding projects for Group clients B&Q and such as BT and IBM, as well as winning Vodafone, and launching a new title, significant new clients including Cable & Talk Money for Barclays.
Spafax had a good year, adding Singapore Airlines and Qatar Airways to its roster of Sports marketing inight TV and movie entertainment clients.
Technological developments led to Spafax PRISM had a highly successful year.
The Sports programming video on-demand systems for Marketing team secured NTT DoCoMos many airlines including the 500 channel i-mode global sponsorship assignment.
The on-demand system launched by Emirates.
Public Relations team continued to expand Spafax was awarded Best Design in a New their global relationship with Shell while Magazine at the New York Folio Show also adding new clients such as DuPont and Ozzie awards for the first inight magazine Olympus.
In North America, PRISM conducted for LAN Chile Airlines.
a 45-city media blitz for Fords new Escape Hybrid vehicle.
The Brand Experience team Sector marketing rolled out its second major brand sponsorship platform, adding Standard Chartereds Pace continued its strong performance in Greatest Race on Earth to the Land Rover G4 2004.
At the recent National Association Challenge.
And the Sponsorship Consulting of Homebuilders convention, the rm won team used its unique sponsorship analytical tool national awards including Best Brochure in the to provide companies such as Vodafone, Xerox, Country and Best Brochure for an Active Adult and Deutsche Bahn with precise measurements Community in the Country in its categories.
Geppetto launched a new campaign for Premiere Sponsorship Marketing PSM Little Tikes and developed the brand idea and developed a breakthrough campaign for the creative for Reeboks first shoe for tween girls, UK Department of Education to Beat Bullying.
Geppetto also created a strategic A blue wristband was seeded with sports and plan and advertising for NFLs youth effort: entertainment stars such as Rio Ferdinand, the and authored the significant Kids Food & England Cricket Team, Scissor Sisters and Health Study.
The impact was such that The Food Group continued its foodservice 900,000 youngsters registered for a band and sector development by adding new clients the accompanying information pack.
In 2004 the rm Global Sportnet continued to grow its further rened the key consultancy disciplines core football club and national association TV of culinary and strategic development into rights business.
They successfully launched the a consolidated team effort for the benefit Performance joint venture with MindShare to of all clients.
create a dedicated sports and entertainment Edinburgh-based architects and interior sponsorship consultancy, and clients to date designers BDG McColl traded steadily during include Ford, HSBC, and Nestl.
60 WPP Annual Report 2004 Mary Ellen Howe Chief operating officer Specialist Communications, North America Media, technology and production services The Farm Group, including Uncle, had another successful year, highlighted by being MJM continued to grow its reputation during voted the Best Post Production Company in the the year as experts in face-to-face marketing, Broadcast magazine awards for the fourth time with clients Pzer, AstraZeneca, IBM, and in five years and nishing number one amongst Canon.
The companys London ofce is broadcast post production companies in a poll growing, with new clients and collaborations conducted by this industry-leading publication.
New ofces were added Numerous high prole TV projects were in Washington DC and Detroit, as well as handled by the Farm Group throughout the an interactive group that is helping to bring year, including X Factor, Ramsays Kitchen a fresh dimension to clients work.
Notable Nightmares, Watchdog and Crimewatch.
consumer events have ranged from a Festival for the Saudi Consulate London to a Super Mary Ellen Howe, Andrew Scott Moto Championship for Red Bull Las Vegas.
The company has also helped to deliver faceto-face marketing support to a number of WPPs major presentations, such as those for Samsung and HSBC.
Metro enjoyed another successful year in 2004 and continued to work on groundbreaking projects.
Metro Ecosse staged the celebrations for the 250th Anniversary of the Royal & Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, which involved transforming a temporary structure into the ballroom of a period liner to entertain 1200 guests.
Metro Broadcast continued to deliver innovative services, including transmitting a live, commercial, 4:2:2 MPEG-encoded High Denition transmission in Dolby 5.1 surround sound from Alexandra Palace, the birthplace of television transmission.
WPP Annual Report 2004 61 What we think The Advertising and Marketing Services Industry: Complete recovery from the internet bust of 2000 and strong base for growth Martin Sorrell Page 64 Why is a Good Insight Like a Refrigerator?
Jeremy Bullmore Page 80 62 WPP Annual Report 2004 WPP Annual Report 2004 63 What we think The Advertising and Marketing Services Industry: Complete recovery from the internet bust of 2000 and strong base for growth WPP CEO Martin Sorrell reports 64 WPP Annual Report 2004 2004 marked the full recovery from the internet bust of 2000.
It was WPPs best year ever measured by most metrics with the exception of margins and then only by a small amount.
2005 has already shown more improvement.
It should, in theory, be the weakest of the next four-year cycle to 2008.
2006 should be an even better year a mini-quadrennial boosted by mid-term Congressional elections in the US, the Winter Olympics in Turin and soccers World Cup in Germany.
And 2007 will be the platform for 2008, when a maxi-quadrennial year will be dominated by the US presidential elections Hillary Clinton vs. Condoleezza Rice?
the blockbuster Beijing Olympics and the European Football Championships in Austria and Switzerland.
In the longer term, advancing Americanisation and the growth of Asia Pacic, overcapacity and the shortage of human capital, the web, the demand for internal alignment and as a result internal communications, and retail concentration should together underline and assure the importance of our industry and its constituent parts advertising and marketing services.
or advertising and marketing services grew by 2-3% to Clients also need reach.
In the US, for example, primemore than $1.1 trillion, putting WPPs market share, time network television used to reach 90% of households.
including Grey Global, at about 10%.
This year the industry A few years ago it was 50%: today it is perhaps only 33%.
should again grow at around 2-3%.
As a proportion of There are, of course, still programmes with signicantly worldwide GNP, it probably fell during the recession of increased reach, like the Super Bowl or Academy Awards.
It will continue But they remain in relatively xed supply and their prices to grow thereafter.
That is why a 30-second Super Bowl Advertising and media investment management which ad costs $2.4 million and an Academy Awards slot $1.5 concentrate on traditional media such as television, radio, million.
This is not a situation that can last, particularly newspapers, magazines, outdoor and cinema have grown when significant segments of the population seem to go well historically and led the industry out of the recession.
For instance, US audience ratings indicate that But its share has declined as supposedly less sophisticated, young men have disappeared on Monday nights perhaps less global and less developed marketing services have gained gaming on the internet or watching out-of-home in bars share.
These are the so-called below-the-line areas, such as and housewives have defected from soap operas.
information, insight and consultancy, public relations and public affairs, branding and identity, healthcare and The Super Bowl line-up 1985-2005 specialist communications particularly direct, interactive Household and internet communications.
First, network television pricing has risen faster 2004 2,200,000 CBS 41.3 63 than ination, to the disquiet of big advertisers.
Procter & 2005 2,400,000 FOX 41.1 62 Gamble, the worlds biggest advertiser even bigger with Source: MindShare Gillette, Unilever, Coca-Cola and American Express have registered voluble protests in recent times.
They are sick Moreover, media fragmentation has increased signicantly and tired of paying more for less.
In 2003, in the up-front as the old media become more sophisticated and the new network buying season, cost per thousand rose by an media proliferate.
Technology has improved the effectiveness estimated 15-22% against an expected 7-12% and this and development of cable and satellite television, newspapers against general price ination of 3%.
In 2004, up-front and periodicals, radio and outdoor, while spawning new pricing continued to outpace ination, cost per thousand media in direct, interactive and the internet.
2005 should see further softening, but new media are more measurable and more targeted.
prices will still probably grow faster than general price At the same time, media consumption habits are changing ination at around 4-5%.
Just look at what a four-year-old can The analogy is to imagine what would happen in the do with a computer in a few hours or what bloggers and car industry if the price of steel rose consistently by 10% hackers do with different value systems.
Decision-makers against general price ination of 3%.
Manufacturers in media owners and agencies tend to be in their fties and would use less steel or nd a substitute.
That is what is sixties: their sons and daughters and grandchildren are happening in our industry, too.
Marketing services and shifting in ever greater numbers to multi-tasking on the web, other traditional media such as radio, outdoor and cinema personal video recorders PVRs, video-on-demand, mobiles advertising are becoming more acceptable substitutes.
Network television will, however, remain an important Many leading executives are in denial.
It still reaches the largest hope that such changes will not happen on their watch.
number of consumers in the shortest time, at the lowest cost Yet I know that my own consumption habits have altered per thousand.
If we were starting a multi-national package radically over the past few years more daily newspapers, WPP Annual Report 2004 67 2004.
Ten fat years, three lean ones and a return to modest growth in a lower inationary environment in the last one What we think mostly due to quadrennial events.
It seems our business is becoming increasingly event-driven, particularly by political The advertising and marketing services industry events.
President Bush wanted a strong economic background to his re-election and Prime Minister Blair wanted a similar background to his.
One worry: scal over-stimulation The US economy was in a political cycle in 2004, as the government used scal spending to stimulate the economy.
More cable and satellite television, less Rates of growth in US government spending were back to network.
More web use for information and Blackberry where they were 35 years ago at the height of the Vietnam e-mail.
I am less willing to wait for detailed analysis in War.
It is no accident that governments in many countries weeklies or fortnightlies.
Why are the largest advertising spenders: ministries use marketing should I wait for 10 days or so for in-depth analysis of the spending to reinforce their policies and build electoral Procter Gillette merger announced on a Thursday night?
The problem is that the US economy is almost Similarly, the US has hitherto accounted for about half of entering another Reagan era with huge scal deficits, a worldwide advertising and marketing services spending, with weak dollar, trade imbalances and the threat of ination.
the most prominent non-US markets being Japan, Germany, Isnt the countrys currency really its stock price?
the UK, France, Italy and Spain.
Asia President Bush may have to deal with the deficit and Pacic, Latin America, Africa, the Middle East, and Central the weak dollar by raising interest rates and taxes and and Eastern Europe are becoming more and more thus curbing growth.
To date, the recession has hit the significant, as multinational corporations build their business-to-business arena, leaving the consumer relatively businesses where populations are growing.
Spending has been stimulated by negative real Non-US markets will be increasingly important.
The issue remains whether Extrapolate WPPs current revenues in the BRIC countries increased corporate profitability and liquidity will stimulate Brazil, Russia, India and China at the rates of GNP growth a capital expenditure-led increase in activity, as the consumer predicted in recently published Goldman Sachs research is hit by monetary correction.
2005 has so far seen a documents and assume moderate rises in advertising to relatively soft landing, but corporate capital spending GNP ratios.
The result is that Asia Pacic, Latin America, remains sluggish, not lling the void caused by more Africa, the Middle East, and Central and Eastern Europe sensitive debt-ridden consumers and reduced consumer will take a growing share of our business: possibly 38% spending.
Perhaps a Sarbanes-Oxley, Eliot Spitzer-dominated by 2015, excluding acquisitions.
Perhaps we should look world, where CEOs last on average less than four years at our activities on a network television and non-network and are constantly pressurised to return cash to share television basis, and a US and non-US basis.
Increasingly, owners and hedge funds, themselves pre-occupied by the marketing world is becoming two-paced, geographically short-term performance targets, is not an environment and functionally.
The US, Asia Pacic, Africa and Middle where anybody wants to take risks or focus on the longEast and Central and Eastern Europe are outpacing Western term.
Why take chances and be red?
Europe: the internet is outpacing network television, newspapers and periodicals.
US Government spending since 1960 In any event, WPP was founded some 20 years ago by two people in one room to try to capitalise on these two GDP $bn Surplus deficit as a % of GDP 16 3 trends and provide co-ordinated advertising and marketing 15 2 14 services throughout the world.
All you had to do was come 4 -4 3 into the ofce.
With a tightly controlled Rubin Greenspan 2 -5 1 US economy and Friedmanite economics driving the global 0 -6 1 1 1 -1 60 62 64 66 68 70 72 74 76 78 80 82 84 86 88 90 92 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 economy it was relatively easy despite the worlds second 1 Estimate largest economic engine, Japan, being out of order for 12 Source: Budget of the US Government 2005 years or so.
Strong growth, low ination and high, but not full levels of employment, drove a 10-year bull market, such as we have not seen since the 1920s.
The speculative blow-out around the internet was perhaps inevitable and, given its size, a lengthy correction was necessary.
Overall, the past four years have been painful.
After growing consistently through the 1990s, culminating in organic growth of 15% in 2000 20% using the yardstick of our competitors, WPP shrank, on a like-for-like basis, in 2001 and 2002.
It resumed modest growth in 2003 and 68 WPP Annual Report 2004 Top 10 US advertising spenders by category $000 Meanwhile, consolidation continues... Jan Aug Jan Aug % In parallel with this short-term weakness, other pressures Industry 2003 2004 change persist.
Among clients, Auto companies, dealers & services 11,935,395 12,838,818 8 Procter takes Wella and Gillette, Interbrew takes AmBev, Retail 6,985,815 7,554,044 8 Telefonica takes Bell Souths Latin American interests, Movies & entertainment 5,016,147 5,624,622 12 Cingular takes AT&T Wireless, MCI chooses Verizon, Medicines & Pernod Ricard tries to take Allied Domecq.
And this at proprietary remedies 3,819,514 4,617,868 21 a time when merger and acquisition M&A activity is Financial 3,704,938 4,528,364 22 meant to be at lower levels.
Local services & amusements 3,443,932 3,763,962 9 Consolidation among media owners also continues Telecommunications 3,304,047 3,518,843 7 unabated.
NewsCorp takes DirecTV, Comcast tried to take Public transportation, Disney, Carlton and Granada merge to monopolise ITV.
hotels & resorts 2,842,910 3,251,263 14 Legislation favours more consolidation in the US and the Restaurants 2,602,180 2,776,999 7 UK.
Even in Brazil, which has been ercely protectionist, Insurance & real estate 2,023,804 2,710,592 34 you could now buy 30% of Globo or Editora Abril.
Other 29,543,717 32,078,479 9 Germany allows foreign ownership of TV channels.
Total 75,222,399 83,263,854 11 Italy concentrates further though the Gasparri Bill.
Source: CMR excludes out of home advertising Clients and media owners are not alone.
In Latin America, Top 10 US advertising spenders by category 000 Wal-Mart enters the North East of Brazil by acquiring part of Aholds interests, Lider consumes Carrefour, Jumbo buys Disco in Argentina, and rumours surround Wal-Mart and Auto companies, 04 12,838,818 Carrefour, and Home Depot and Kingsher.
In line with the dealers & services 03 11,935,395 laws of big numbers, the challenge to Wal-Mart, Tesco and Retail 04 7,554,044 Home Depot will be how they can successfully manage 03 6,985,815 expansion outside their home markets.
It will not be easy: Movies & entertainment 04 5,624,622 the demands are different.
03 5,016,147 As a result, it is no surprise that agencies are also Medicines & 04 4,617,868 consolidating.
Certainly in the one area where there are proprietary remedies 03 3,819,514 big economies of scale media buying consolidation is Financial 04 4,528,364 significant.
To negotiate with a Murdoch or Sumner 03 3,704,938 Redstone or Mel Karmazin or Michael Eisner or Bob Iger Local services & amusements 04 3,763,962 or Bob Wright, larger scale is essential.
Media planning or buying, or what we call media investment management, 03 3,443,932 is one of WPPs fastest-growing businesses, driven by Telecommunications 04 3,518,843 clients looking for media buying efficiencies rather than 03 3,304,047 reductions in agencys commissions.
Often savings on gross Public transportation, 04 3,251,263 media budgets of 5-10% are achievable.
Media savings are hotels & resorts 03 2,842,910 driving client centralisations and are a quick kill in showing Restaurants 04 2,776,999 efficiencies, as Nestl and Unilever have shown.
But even 03 2,602,180 on the creative side, voracious procurement departments Insurance & real estate 04 2,710,592 and ill-judged price competition by agencies themselves 03 2,023,804 are driving consolidation the $100 million pitch win Source: CMR excludes out of home advertising headline in AdAge or Campaign is more satisfying than real revenue.
No surprise, then, that Publicis dismantled Merger & acquisition activity DArcy, itself a consolidation of three agencies DArcy, Masius Wynne-Williams and Benton & Bowles.
We Year Volume Value ourselves consolidated Cordiant, an amalgamation of Bates US deal ow and Dorland, among others.
com 6 May 2005 WPP Annual Report 2004 69 industry.
Here, companies are more focused on product innovation, research and development or science, along What we think with branding to build stronger market shares.
As a result, brands and margins are more robust, and volumes greater.
The advertising and marketing services industry Recent accounting changes in the US have forced companies to show gross and net sales, at least temporarily.
As a result, more data is available on the balance between advertising and promotional spending.
Many CEOs know what they spend on advertising, but not on trade promotion.
Often the latter exceeds the former, even in heavy-spending above-theline companies.
It may well be that manufacturers will seek to cut trade spending and boost brand spending, particularly at a time when the trade is consolidating at such a rapid... And so do price and trade promotion rate.
Bribing customers for distribution is a recipe for ruin.
In a low-ination, over-capacity market with little or no Fees, procurement and outsourcing bring opportunities pricing power, many manufacturers have turned to price as well as threats promotion and discounting.
Probably the best example is the car and truck industry.
General Motors still seems to The days of 15% gross commissions, 17.65% on cost, are believe it has a balance sheet advantage over its competitors, long gone.
Commission levels have receded to around 12% particularly in Detroit.
Why else would it introduce heavily gross for full service, including media planning and buying.
price-based competition such as five-year zero-coupon Production commissions have largely been reduced or nancing or discounts of $4,000 to $5,000 a unit.
eliminated, although there are interesting procurement Probably, the most extreme case was Hyundai in Korea opportunities for agencies themselves in television offering negative interest rates on nancing a form of production, as we have seen at WPP in Australia.
One dealer in America offered a buy-one, While commissions persist, fees are becoming more get-one-free deal on sports utility vehicles SUVs.
popular with clients, although that momentum seems to Luckily it was a failure.
They now represent at least 75% of If you give cars away it is only to be expected that our business.
Usually time-based, with incentives, they are consumers buy them.
No surprise, then, that the American used exclusively in our marketing services business, which auto market has remained at 16 million units in this accounts for 54% of our revenues.
In advertising, they environment, or that housing markets and house prices account for over half of our business.
show similar buoyancy, when xed-term money is being Fees have a number of advantages and on balance we given away at such low interest rates.
They are not seasonal, in a business where The problem is that consumers become used to such spending tends to be concentrated in the second and fourth discounting and wait for new car or truck introductions quarters.
January has become a profitable month.
If clients and the discounting that goes with them.
The auto cut or do not spend or continually re-brief us, we still get manufacturers face protless prosperity and break-even paid.
Finally, when fee-driven, we tend to plan our annual economics at full capacity.
Interestingly, the Japanese and business better.
Korean manufacturers, and some German ones too, have Fees have also tended to dampen volatility in our tended to resist the temptation of excessive discounting, operating margins.
In the most recent cycle our margins offering lower levels of $1,000 or $2,000.
Instead they peaked at 14.5% and bottomed at 12.3%.
In the previous concentrate on design, new products and branding to cycle in the early nineties, they peaked at 10.5% and build a price premium.
If you focus on price, you build bottomed at 5.6%.
If you focus on innovation and product and I cannot remember a time, in the 25 or so years I have differentiation, you earn a price premium and build brands.
been in the industry, when clients have been so focused Conclusive evidence of the inadvisability of this strategy on cost, although in 2004 there were signs of a growing came when General Motors had to lower its earnings focus on top-line growth, and innovation and branding forecast for 2005 by 80%.
Price promotion just does not as opposed to costs.
Given overcapacity, low ination and work.
lack of pricing power, and high management turnover, that A similarly unfortunate trend is occurring in the food is perhaps understandable.
Package goods companies continue to try to build However, the question remains whether the procurement share by discounting and price competition, particularly as process can successfully purchase creative services in the way distribution concentrates.
They pay higher trade discounts that door handles or widgets are bought.
The emphasis on and slotting allowances, and fund increased promotional procurement seemed to start in the pharmaceutical industry activity.
One package goods company has $80 billion of and then moved elsewhere.
It may work in media buying, annual sales, $10 billion of operating profits and spends where there are economies of scale, but not necessarily in about $2 billion on above-the-line advertising.
Guess media planning or other creative areas.
what its broadly-dened trade promotions budget is?
It is true that we must improve our processes and Around $10 billion, equivalent to its operating profits eliminate waste, but can you buy ideas or our peoples and rising by 1% of revenues or $800 million a year.
The creativity in such a mechanical way?
Increasingly, pressure CEO described it as the biggest crisis facing the company.
on price will drive our best creative resources to those Interestingly, there is not the same phenomenon in the clients and categories where they feel their services are health-based or well-being segments of the package goods appreciated and rewarded appropriately.
Few newspaper or periodical publishers have deliver outstanding results.
Reducing marketing costs mastered the connection with the new internet platforms: indiscriminately, particularly in industries with heavy xed hence Rupert Murdochs recent conference speech with his production costs, will only result in having to spread those editors, as well as his decision to re-examine NewsCorps costs over fewer unit sales.
new media approach with McKinsey engaged to look at it.
The procurement process seems to be based on the idea As a result, clients are re-examining the absolute levels that what we provide is low value-added, and that because of their advertising and marketing services investment.
we are dependent on significant revenues from large clients, Does it make sense to shift their portfolio of media we can be squeezed.
This thinking may well be awed.
First, investment away from network television to cable, satellite, what we do is critical.
There is a limit to how far costs can radio, outdoor, cinema, direct, public relations, interactive, be reduced: but there is almost no limit apart from 100% internet or whatever?
The econometric analysis of media market share to how far you can grow revenues.
Second, investment is becoming increasingly important.
How much in an increasingly undifferentiated world, what we do should we spend and through which media, have become differentiate products and services, tangibly and intangibly the critical questions the Holy Grail of advertising.
The is becoming more and more important.
answer to which half of advertising is wasted.
Finally, growing consolidation in our industry is reducing Among the latest media innovations are PVRs, which the potential resources for clients.
It is ever more difficult enable viewers to download television programmes on to nd co-ordinated resources that can deliver what to a hard disk.
The PVR enables you to build your own they require, particularly if the client is an international, television channel, recording programmes for screening multinational or global company.
Smaller, country or when you want to see them, and to build a library, as an city-based operations cannot offer the depth of coverage.
Apple iPod does with music.
A PVR also allows you to One interesting recent development is the growing time-shift programmes as you watch, stopping for breaks interest in outsourcing parts or all of the marketing function.
Forrester Research predicts that 50% Clearly this is an opportunity for us and is being driven by of US households will have PVRs by 2007.
Others are less CEOs focus on costs and their analysis of their investment bullish, but even the least enthusiastic forecast 25% in marketing services.
Instead of concentrating solely on penetration by then.
It cannot be long before they are amounts spent outside the organisation, closer examination standard equipment in television sets.
is being made of amounts spent inside the company.
WPP has become involved recently in outsourcing projects in the Projected PVR penetration in parts of Europe and US car and internet services industries.
% In a number of other areas, including advertising, direct UK Germany France US 35 marketing and research, there is interest in what can be done 30 in outsourcing costs.
Clearly this tends to make internal 25 marketing departments more defensive about their functions.
20 Media fragmentation 15 10 Another significant short-term pressure is media 5 fragmentation.
This has been driven by television price 0 03 04 05 06 07 ination and falling audiences, as media consumption Source: Jupiter Research habits change.
Developing technologies have given birth MindShare estimates only 32% penetration by 2010 to new media such as personal computers, the internet and interactivity.
They have also altered the economics What has made observers particularly excited about the of traditional media such as newspapers and magazines, PVR is its ability to fast-forward or skip commercials while minority media such as radio, outdoor and cinema altogether.
Market research in the US indicates that have improved their offerings through better marketing consumers like to fast-forward advertisements though they WPP Annual Report 2004 71 functional specialists do not like, understandably, to be subsumed under advertising professionals.
What we think Today, the new super-agencies have a big opportunity.
Clients still require, first and foremost, creativity and The advertising and marketing services industry great creative ideas.
Secondly, but increasingly, they want better co-ordination although it is no good co-ordinating a lousy idea.
Finally, they want it at the lowest possible price.
The challenge is therefore to provide the best ideas in the best co-ordinated or integrated way at the lowest price.
To respond to this, the super-agencies will in turn need to focus on attracting, retaining and developing the best talent, structuring their organisations in the most effective way and incentivising their people successfully qualitatively stop at beer commercials for fun and car commercials for and quantitatively.
We could do most of this previously with While only a year ago this might have been seen as a television video recorders, of course, and the key question fad, the concept may now be taking root.
Three major remains the amount of time viewers will continue to devote multinational clients all three coincidentally, perhaps, to television viewing.
In some PVRs, the skip button has with their origins or significant parts of their business in been omitted and fast-forward speeds are limited.
In others, Asia invited the four or five largest holding or parent little boxes on the PVR screen will contain details of the ads companies to present for their global advertising and being fast-forwarded.
Whatever the outcome, such devices marketing services business.
In all cases the presentations will exert more pressure on network television and on included advertising and media investment management, agencies to develop stronger programming and sponsorship and direct and in one case research.
All three clients were opportunities, along with even more creative advertising looking for an integrated global solution to their needs and ideas.
The same will be true of video-on-demand, another for groups that can offer alternative solutions potentially new and fast-developing technology.
The premium on a weakness of the single network.
In all three pitches, a group or parent company solution was selected.
WPP tribes were successful in two of them.
In the third, we were unable to eld our strongest line-up because of conict issues in one of the tribes.
The CEO of Formed initially in response to the pressures of consolidation one eliminated parent company in the first round of the and to house conicting accounts, the super-agencies first pitch declared that this was not a trend.
Now that at or what we at WPP prefer to call the parent companies least three pitches have taken place, he has changed his really represent the full-service agencies of the 21st century.
In addition, many other group pitches have taken In the 1960s if you visited, for example, JWT in place particularly in pharmaceuticals that have been Berkeley Square you would nd a creative department, a under the trade papers radar.
The only issue preventing marketing department, an account handling department, this from being a trend is whether clients can be convinced a media department, a public relations department, a of the benets.
The middle of the road is becoming an merchandising department, a direct mail department, increasingly difficult place to be, with trafc coming from a packaging department, a production department, an both directions.
Those agencies excluded from the superexperimental lm department, a market research agency pitches because they lack the scale and resources department, a conference department and even a home must be feeling uncomfortable.
Our business is increasingly economics department with two fully equipped kitchens polarising between the very big at one end and the small plus an operations research department designing a factory at the other.
Long before the phrase integrated communications came into common use, integrated communications were exactly what such full-service agencies provided.
Over time, and as a result of two pressures, these departments became unbundled.
Clients sought to reduce costs and the media and craft specialists within agencies, feeling under-recognised as members of a mother agencys department, looked for greater recognition and reward in free-standing, specialist companies of their own.
Importantly, this involved a split between the brand agency and the media agency, reducing costs from approximately 15% of gross media costs to about 12%.
Good media people left and started independents such as Carat, Media Planning Group, CIA and Western International, which grew organically and by acquisition.
The same pattern was seen among packaging, merchandising, PR and other specialist skills.
Many such companies have now been reabsorbed into the super-agencies, but in an inter-dependent or autonomous form.
Strong media or marketing services 72 WPP Annual Report 2004 and Flemings.
Today they have virtually disappeared and the industry is dominated by large American banks like Further down the line, a Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, Merrill Lynch and Citigroup.
While strong European talent might have had much brighter picture misgivings about working in American multinationals a few years ago, today these businesses are more sensitively run and offer interesting, intellectually stimulating global opportunities and challenges.
The European-based businesses that remain, such as Deutsche Bank, UBS and CSFB, still face the challenge of establishing a good market position in the US.
Neither is it easy to nd European-based global companies.
BP and Shell certainly get it, as do Unilever Five key factors underpinning longer-term growth and Nestl.
So does DaimlerChrysler, although Jurgen Schrempps strategy is still under attack.
Vodafone, GlaxoSmithKline, AstraZeneca, LOreal and Sano are Strategically, a better future other good examples.
While the internet bust of 2000 has clouded the short-term American strength is based on three factors.
First, the outlook, the long-term future for advertising and marketing size and power of the American market: 295 million people services, for innovation and branding, remains very rosy.
Despite the European There are five key reasons why the services we provide will Union being almost twice the size, it is much more become increasingly relevant.
Second, the power and size of American capital markets.
If you want to raise debt or equity capital, 1.
Globalisation or Americanisation it still is the cheapest place to go.
Finally, because of their strength in technology.
I am hard pressed to think of Certainly, commercial life has not quite worked out as many areas where they do not lead.
Third-generation Professor Theodore Levitt predicted it might some 21 years mobile phone technology is one, but given the prices that ago in the Harvard Business Review.
The world has not European companies paid for the privilege, the distinction been globalised to the extent he predicted, where consumers is a dubious one.
around the world consumed similar products, marketed in At various times in history, when a country or empire the same way everywhere.
Indeed, Levitt admitted as much seemed to have total political, social or economic hegemony, in an interview to celebrate the 20th anniversary of his the situation changed and the vacuum was lled by another article.
He was exaggerating to make a point.
At this point in time, it may well be China that Truly global products only account for around 10-15% takes this role, in the context of the growth of Asia Pacic.
Consumers are probably more Although this development was delayed by the tragic interesting for their differences than their similarities.
events of 9 11, as the US and China grappled with trying Recent political developments support this the collapse to understand actions in the Muslim world, this trend is of the Soviet Union, Yugoslavia, devolution in Scotland now in full swing.
and Wales, and Basque nationalism.
Indeed, the European Union is really a supply-side led phenomenon, harmonising Top 100 brands by location production and distribution, rather than demand.
Location %%%% What has been going on may well not be the globalisation USA 63 65 62 58 of world markets, but their Americanisation.
Not in the Germany 7669 sense that upsets the French or the Germans and results in France 3579 the banning of Americanisms from French commercial Japan 6677 language, an objection to the cultural imperialism of Coke, UK 7565 the Golden Arches or Mickey Mouse.
But more in the sense Switzerland 3333 of the power and leadership of the US.
In most industries, Italy 2323 including our own, the US accounts for almost half of the Netherlands 2223 world market.
And given the prominence of US-based Finland 1111 multinationals, you could argue that almost two-thirds of Sweden 3221 the advertising and marketing services market is controlled South Korea 1111 or inuenced from there.
If you want to build a worldwide Bermuda 1110 brand you have to establish a big presence in the worlds Denmark 1000 largest market the US.
Source: Interbrand Business Week At WPP, 22 of our top 40 clients are headquartered in the US, 17 in Europe and one in Asia Pacic.
Moreover, they are almost all located in the north-east corridor created by Chicago, Detroit, New York and Washington.
Failure to understand the importance of North America can be life-threatening.
Take the case of the investment banking industry.
China is not Computers 3.6% just one country: it consists of more than 30 provinces, with Electronics & imaging 3.5% so many languages and dialects that Mao Tse Tung needed Telecommunications 3.5% an interpreter.
But it is equivalent to four or five Americas.
Restaurants 3.0% It is true also that currently only 150-200 million Chinese Retail 2.7% can afford the goods and services we are trying to market Cleaners 2.5% to them.
However, this is already equivalent to over half Beer, wine & liquor 2.1% an America and this is a dynamic situation, one that will Financial 2.0% change rapidly in the coming years.
Furthermore, India Candy confectionery 0.6% itself equivalent to three to four Americas seems to have Toys 0.5% been stimulated into more rapid growth, driven perhaps Source: Ad Age Global Marketing Report November 2004 by neighbourhood envy and the Chinese model of state directed capitalism.
Do not underestimate the potential of the region as rapprochement spreads even to cricket, with the Indian-Pakistani test and one-day series representing as important a political, economic and social signal as the Beijing Olympics.
Asia Pacic will dominate again.
This really is back to the future.
In 1820 China and India generated around 49% of worldwide GDP.
In 2025, these two countries are forecast to be headed for the same level again, having bottomed out at 8% in 1973.
Currently, China and India represent over one-third of the worlds population.
By 2014, Asia Pacic will represent over twothirds.
Greater China is already WPPs fifth largest market in which we have a dominant 15% share.
In India, our market share is almost 50%, with a 25% share in South Korea.
In Japan, it is almost 10%, behind the dominating Dentsu and HDY, but the largest gaijin rm.
Chinas development has been rapid and will continue.
The Chinese government is conscious of potential overheating and an imbalance in regional rates of development between the coastal regions and the hinterland.
There has already been a soft-landing slow down in growth, which presents more opportunity for investment.
There will continue to be a focus on global, max or core brands, with sales of 1 1 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 more than $1 billion, particularly to counterbalance the World 2.4 3.0 3.9 5.0 4.3 power of global retailers and as companies become less Advanced economies 1.2 1.6 2.1 3.6 2.9 dependent on the US markets.
Coca-Colas geographic USA 0.8 1.9 3.0 4.3 3.5 coverage of a third in North America, a third in Europe Euro area 1.6 0.8 0.5 2.2 2.2 and a third in Asia Pacic and Latin America will become Germany 0.8 0.1 -0.1 2.0 1.8 more the norm, rather than Pepsi-Colas 63% in the US.
France 2.1 1.1 0.5 2.6 2.3 Italy 1.8 0.4 0.3 1.4 1.9 A local approach to more heterogeneous markets Japan 0.4 -0.3 2.5 4.4 2.3 UK 2.3 1.8 2.2 3.4 2.5 However, given this geographic expansion, there will also Canada 1.8 3.4 2.0 2.9 3.1 be a need to develop more sensitive, local organisations that Other advanced economies 1.7 3.0 2.3 3.8 3.1 respond to national opportunities and challenges more readily.
Other emerging market The past 10 to 15 years have seen, quite rightly, a diminution & developing countries 4.0 4.8 6.1 6.6 5.9 of power of country managers, as companies sought to Africa 4.0 3.5 4.3 4.5 5.4 reduce needless duplication and stimulate the sharing of Sub-Sahara 3.9 3.6 3.7 4.6 5.8 knowledge.
Eradicating geographic silos and efdoms made Developing Asia 5.5 6.6 7.7 7.6 6.9 sense.
However, as country-based organisations have become China 7.5 8.3 9.1 9.0 7.5 more complex and sizeable, there may be a need to develop India 3.9 5.0 7.2 6.4 6.7 more focus at a country level.
Several clients have started Middle East 3.6 4.3 6.0 5.1 4.8 to re-build country organisations and re-appoint country Western hemisphere 0.5 -0.1 1.8 4.6 3.6 managers or ambassadors.
Brazil 1.3 1.9 -0.2 4.0 3.5 As a result, regional management has been scrutinised.
Central & Eastern Europe 0.2 4.4 4.5 5.5 4.8 With the development of technology and communications, CIS & Mongolia 6.4 5.4 7.8 8.0 6.6 organisational span-breakers may not be so necessary.
In Russia 5.1 4.7 7.3 7.3 6.6 addition, given the complexity of regional tasks, regional Excluding Russia 9.4 7.0 9.0 9.6 6.5 managers really become gloried financial directors.
The 1 Estimated average agency regional director in Europe, for example, may Source: IMF 2004 have to cover 100 ofces in a 250-day working year.
No self-respecting multi-national to add significant value spending an average of one to two company bent on expanding into China or national days in each ofce a year, even if he or she travelled all year.
company seeking to grow inside or outside China will miss At WPP, we are experimenting with two new out on the branding opportunity presented by the Olympics organisational responses.
First, Global Client Leaders to in Beijing.
The Chinese government is already committed to manage big clients across WPP on a worldwide basis.
$45 billion of investment around the Games, in a year that Second, WPP Country Managers focusing on three key will also be stimulated by a US Presidential election that may issues people, local clients and acquisitions.
Both responses feature a contest between Senator Hillary Clinton and Secretary cause angst to our operating company or tribal leaders.
Both cut across the traditional organisational structures.
The Municipality of Shanghai will Both demand new ways of working together, denying turf, be investing $3 billion in Expo 2010. territory and ego.
But, both are necessary, responding to Watch out for growing Chinese military inuence.
Organisations are becoming Recent economic contact with Fidel Castro in Cuba more and more networked and less and less pyramidic.
Chinese investment Perhaps the 21st century is not for tidy minds.
in Galileos GPRS systems drew a coruscating response from the Pentagon.
Beijing will not be prepared to rely 2.
Overcapacity and the shortage of human capital on America to defend its vital and growing energy supply interests in the Middle East and Russia.
The single biggest long-term issue facing our clients in most The other challenge to American dominance may well industries is overcapacity.
In fact, it is difficult to nd many come from the Muslim world.
Already, Muslims number cases where the opposite is true: Tequila, perhaps, where 1.5 billion people or a quarter of the worlds population.
it takes seven years to grow the herb, or watches or high By 2014, Muslims will number 2.1 billion or 30% of the fashion companies like Rolex or Hermes where supply is projected worlds population.
The recent struggles in limited.
It is also true that commodity-based industries, like Afghanistan and Iraq really only continue the conicts of oil and steel, no longer face over-capacity issues, being the 1950s in Suez, the oil price increases of the 1970s and overwhelmed by Indian and Chinese demand.
But most the invasion of Kuwait in the 1990s.
Westerners have made industries face situations similar to the car and truck little attempt to understand the Muslim mind and assume industry, where companies can make 80 million units they have the same value systems and beliefs.
They are and consumers consume 60 million.
different and it will be increasingly necessary to make Overcapacity issues are particularly difficult to deal a serious and sincere attempt to understand them.
with in politically sensitive industries like automobiles.
These events may demand new thinking from the worlds Governments are not enthusiastic about shutting down multinational companies.
As US-centric companies, for capacity and increasing unemployment.
They also like to example, seek to develop their businesses and extend their increase capacity by offering inducements to locate new reach into more heterogeneous markets, it may well be that production facilities in development regions.
Thus the WPP Annual Report 2004 77 Making sure that your people buy into your strategy and structure will be increasingly important.
Living the brand What we think operationally will be critical.
The advertising and marketing services industry 3.
The web: not dead, growing fast Since the dotcom implosion of 2000 it has become fashionable to dismiss the web.
However, WPPs smarter clients and those who missed out on opportunities in the 1990s have taken advantage of depressed values and a contrarian position.
Web activity, broadly dened, currently accounts for more than $1.5 billion of WPP Group revenues, or more than 15%, and it is growing rapidly.
best thing for the European car industry would probably There seem to be three reasons why.
First, there is still the have been for GM to absorb Fiats production capability.
A horrible word: perhaps some But Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi could not explanation is needed.
Lets take an example from our own countenance more unemployment in the Mezzogiorno.
More than $1 billion of WPPs revenues come from The same issue faces the British government with Rover market research.
Traditionally, research has been done on particularly during an election campaign.
the phone and through the post.
The process is long and The critical issue in the 19th and 20th centuries was cumbersome.
A questionnaire has to be designed, distributed how to produce goods and services, and to make sure they and lled in by consumers or interviewers.
Then data is reached the consumer.
In the 21st century, it is convincing collected, analysed and conclusions developed.
It can all the consumer to purchase your product, service or brand take three to six months.
Many CEOs despair that by the in the first place.
time the solution has been identied, the problem has In such circumstances differentiation becomes critically changed.
Using the internet, however, the research process important, and differentiation is what our business is about.
can be transformed and responses obtained almost instantly.
Historically, maintaining technical or product differences WPPs Lightspeed panel interrogates more than six million was easier.
Today keeping a technological lead is difficult.
consumers globally and can deliver answers inside 24 hours.
Product life-cycles are being shortened and brand cycles Second, you continue to be disintermediated by lower-cost lengthened.
Again, an example from the car industry: business models that are evaluated by investing institutions less than a decade ago it took five years to design, produce in new and different ways.
Despite the recent vicious and market a car.
Today, it can be done in 18 months.
compression in valuations and consequent losses, the Led by the aggressive Japanese, South Korean and German nanciers of new media and technology companies still manufacturers, the Americans have followed.
Hyundai focus on sales, sales growth and market share, rather than may well become the Samsung of the automotive industry.
on operating profits, margins, earnings per share and return Intangible differentiation is, then, becoming more on capital employed.
Psychological, life-style and emotional differences Finally, the internet and new media companies still steal are significant.
The suit or dress you wear, the car you drive, your people.
After the bankruptcies and failures, many the holidays you take, how you spend your leisure time young people returned to the more traditional businesses all say a lot about your personality and preferences.
WPP lost a number of such bright talents and nd such intangible appeal immoral or at least unsavoury.
later welcomed some back to the fold.
I myself conducted Preying on peoples vulnerabilities, it is said, is unethical.
a number of so-called re-entry interviews and hoped to see However, we believe that fullling peoples desires or and hear that the returnees were relieved to have their jobs dreams is almost always justifiable and satisfying for the back.
Far from it: few grovelled.
Instead they admitted that, consumer and it is a key role for the advertising and given the opportunity again, they would take it or seize a marketing services industry.
While there is certainly too much production and capacity Clearly, the age of apprenticeship inside large corporations in general, what specic resource in the 21st century is in is nished.
It was weakened by the corporate downsizing of ever shorter supply?
The answer is human capital.
Every the 1980s and 1990s, and the final nail in the cofn was the demographic statistic points to a reduction.
The slowing internet boom of the late 1990s.
Young, bright talent will birth rate, declining marriage rates, higher divorce rates, always seek out new, exible, un-bureaucratic, responsive more single parent families, smaller families, ageing companies.
Staying with one company for 40 years or so populations all these factors are reducing the supply of as my father did and advised me to do no longer seems talent.
Even countries with strong, younger demographics, the best career choice.
However, some recent polling and such as Mexico, will face similar situations by 2020.
There attitudinal analysis in the UK shows younger people want are examples of government campaigns trying to stimulate a better work-life balance.
Hedge funds, for instance, are the birth rate.
Western Europe and Japan face significant more attractive than investment banks, offering xed work economic growth issues as a result of the declining proportion times and not demanding all-night toil.
of young people and an overall population decline.
All this points to the growing importance of attracting, recruiting, developing, training, motivating, incentivising and retaining human capital.
In a less differentiated world, it will become more and more important for companies to stand out through the quality and responsiveness of their people.
Internal communications: more important than external appeal over the heads of wholesalers or retailers direct to consumers.
Increasing retail concentration not only in the Given the scale of strategic and structural change going on US but also in Europe and Latin America in particular inside most companies, one of the most important challenges will only emphasise the importance of focusing on product facing CEOs is to communicate that change internally.
innovation and branding, along with better understanding Internal communication to secure internal alignment is, of point-of-purchase consumer behaviour and emphasis on perhaps, a polite way of putting it.
Probably the biggest packaging, point-of-purchase display and retail design.
After block to progress for our clients and perhaps ourselves all, as one senior Asia Pacic Procter & Gamble executive is internal politics.
Turf, territory and ego prevent productive said recently, depending on which P&G brand you are change.
If the chairmen or CEOs of our clients saw what talking about, something between 30% and 80% of we saw, they would be horried.
If they and we devoted purchasing decisions are made at the point of sale.
Procter 50% of the time that they or we spent on internal politics terms it the first moment of truth.
on the consumer, client or competition, they and we would WPP believes that an understanding of distribution and be considerably more successful.
retail is essential and it is one of our core practice You could argue that most of the communication we development areas.
The Store, our virtual retail agency, co-ordinate is aimed at internal audiences rather than links more than 900 retail professionals around the world, external ones.
As some people, such as Allan Leighton updating them on the latest developments and trends when he was at Asda now Wal-Mart, have maintained, subject to client condentiality.
Management Ventures in making sure your internal constituencies are on side is Boston with more than 50 global retail analysts along often more important than external ones.
Only when with Cannondale and Glendinning Associates, both experts internal communications are working can your company in channel management, supplement and consolidate our talk positively to customers, suppliers, potential customers, knowledge of global retailing.
potential employees, journalists, analysts, investors, In addition, 141 Worldwide gives the Group an even government and NGOs.
broader distribution offer with its focus on product Building such virtuous circles in a uni-branded company categories that have been denied access to traditional media.
Inside a multi-branded company such as WPP which has grown by acquisition, where our tribes operate Conclusion independently to deal with dis-economies of scale and client conict, it is far more complicated.
Trying to ensure 84,000 With recessionary forces abating in 2003 and quadrennial people face in the same direction at the same point in time is forces driving the industry to new highs in 2004, the not easy.
On the other hand, once achieved, internal unison short-term picture for the communications services industry and common focus make up a very, very powerful army.
The next quadrennial cycle of 2005-2008 Most of our companies develop internal communications looks stronger.
through advertising, media investment management, The immediate issues of government overspending, information, insight and consultancy, public relations and consolidation among clients, media owners, retail and public affairs, branding and identity, and healthcare and agencies, increasing trade and price promotion, fees, specialist communications.
However, no single operating procurement and outsourcing, media fragmentation and entity exists within WPP to execute internal communications super-agencies all bring opportunities as well as threats.
Still an opportunity for the future.
In the longer term, advancing Americanisation and the 5.
The concentration in distribution CEOs most pressing issue growth of Asia Pacic, overcapacity and the shortage of human capital, the web, the demand for internal Whenever we ask CEOs what keeps them awake at night communications and retail concentration should together or worries them when they get up in the morning, they underline and assure the importance of our industry and its almost always give the same answer: distribution.
Some constituent parts, advertising and marketing services.
The 18% of Procter & Gambles worldwide sales pre-Gillette latter as a proportion of GNP will burst through the cyclical go through Wal-Mart.
The gure is probably 25-30% in high established at the peak of the internet boom in 2000.
Henkel recently bought Dial Corp, 30% of whose sales go through Wal-Mart.
Clorox, another Henkelconnected company, sells 30% of its US products through Wal-Mart.
One of WPPs media partners sells 10% of its cover sales through Wal-Mart.
To the media owner, this is life or death.
To Wal-Mart it is a rounding error and the province of the third or fourth level of procurement, making the publishers life a misery.
More people visit Wal-Mart in the US in one week, than go to church on a Sunday.
Indeed, some say Wal-Mart is the new religion.
Wal-Mart, with 285 billion dollars of sales, is the seventh largest country by retail sales, not far behind China.
Wal-Mart accounts for 8% of US retail sales, Tesco for 11% of UK retail sales and 24% of the UK grocery market.
Inuence over and control of distribution is not a new issue.
In a sense, it is back to the future.
After all, advertising was developed in the 19th century by manufacturers to WPP Annual Report 2004 79 What we think Why is a Good Insight Like a Refrigerator?
Here is an Insight: Product satisfaction arises less from inherent construction and performance than from consumers internalised perceptions of personal utility.
You may have found it faintly familiar: and when you nally worked out what it meant more than faintly obvious.
What you wont have found it to be is exhilarating, inspiring, memorable, actionable, evocative.
You will not have been tempted to repeat it to colleagues or include it in your next internal newsletter.
Certainly, it contains a truth and an important truth at that: but it just sits there.
Between 40 and 50 years ago, Professor Theodore Levitt famously told his Harvard Business School students: People dont want quarter-inch drills.
Its been quoted a million times ever since and enlightened generations of marketing people.
But what if Professor Levitt had chosen to say this: Product satisfaction arises less from inherent construction and performance than from consumers internalised perceptions of personal utility.
Doesnt improve with repetition, does it?
His diligent students would have noted it down: but it would never have been quoted and it would have enlightened nobody.
Whether from their research companies or their communications agencies, marketing companies today are unanimous in demanding insights.
There seems to be no universal agreement on what an insight is but a reasonable denition would seem to be something like this: A new understanding, probably of human behaviour or attitude, as a result of which action may be taken and an enterprise more efficiently conducted.
80 WPP Annual Report 2004 WPP Annual Report 2004 81 Ive also been amazed that no one has ever challenged it: because, as I can now exclusively reveal for the first time, What we think its demonstrably untrue on at least two counts.
As every ornithologist knows, birds dont build their Why is a Good Insight like a Refrigerator?
nests from scraps and straws they chance upon: they know exactly what raw materials they need and they set out deliberately to nd them: mud, sheeps wool, moss, twigs are all knowingly sought out and secured.
That is how birds build nests: but is not, of course, at all how consumers build brands.
Nor do we, as consumers, chance upon most brand clues: they are laid in our path by the brands owner the packs, the promotions, the price, the advertising in the cunning The call for insights is natural.
To return to Levitts hope and expectation that the brand we thereby build will dictum, marketing companies dont want research: they be the one well come to love and favour.
Conventional market research, Had I been more responsible, more concerned with professionally conducted, can paint an invaluable picture accuracy and truth, this is what I should have written of the immediate past: but companies also need help in all those years ago: Stakeholders form the framework forging their futures.
Thats what lies behind the demand for of brand concepts less from holistic perceptions than insights but not all insights are equal.
They come in two from the convergence of disaggregated structural elements.
very different styles and with very different values.
There are Its no new game to mock marketing language though low-potency insights and there are high-potency insights.
too much of it still continues to invite mockery.
There are Product satisfaction arises less from inherent times when marketing language kills thought, strangles construction and performance than from consumers speculation, anaesthetises the imagination.
While marketing internalised perceptions of personal utility is a low-potency jargon remains guilty of these crimes against understanding, insight.
People dont want quarter-inch drills.
They want it deserves to be mocked.
But theres an even more serious quarter-inch holes is a high-potency insight.
And the difference in value between these two has nothing In business, we seem to want to follow the linguistic to do with the intrinsic observation itself.
Both assertions philosophers: to believe that the rigorous researcher or the contain the same truth.
In fact, to be really pedantic, the business professional deals only in matters of fact: always low-intensity version, when scrutinised carefully, actually defines terms: and aims for the total elimination of turns out to be more accurate and more comprehensive than ambiguity.
In fact, of course, if every word employed is the Levitt version because, of course, people dont want underpinned by denition, it follows that every denition quarter-inch holes any more than they want quarter-inch employed needs to be underpinned by denition and so drills.
They want bookshelves or wall lamps or rabbit on into what is called innite regression.
In the pursuit of hutches.
The low-potency version, with its reference to economy and precision, we achieve instead circumlocution, consumers internalised perceptions of personal utility opacity and chaos.
neatly covers this point: but at what cost.
Literal accuracy prevails but inspiration is smothered.
Where the low-potency Stepping stones for thought insight utterly fails is in instant, heart-lifting revelation.
It never elicits that immediate, exultant response: Instead, when searching for high-potency expression of Yes, of course!
sometimes complex insights, its a great deal more fruitful to accept the limitations of language: and to agree with Bold hypothesis Arthur Koestler when he says that Words in themselves are never completely explicit: they are merely stepping stones This is familiar stuff to all creative agencies.
Its a wonderful sentence that: not only an planner or strategist who comes up with an immaculate and important insight, but an elegant example, in itself, of the scrupulously accurate relief map of the brand and its market very truth it contains.
and absolutely nothing else will not be greatly loved by the High-potency insights, because of their immediacy creative group.
By denition, a good creative brief contains a because they evoke as well as inform behave like the best bold hypothesis.
To generate hypotheses you need to speculate: viral ads on the internet.
They are infectious: we only have you need to progress from the known to the unknown.
But to hear them once to remember them, to apply them, to pass you cannot paint the future in the colours of the past.
By contrast, the low-potency insight sits peoples imaginations need to be engaged, excited, signed on there sullenly on its PowerPoint slide, moving absolutely as accomplices.
And the choice of the language you use is not nobody to enlightenment, let alone action.
arbitrary and inconsequential: for an insight to have real potency, Insights framed in high-potency terms invariably avoid the language in which it is couched is at least as important the direct and the explicit.
They stay close to the original as the inner truth itself.
For an insight to have real potency, meaning of wit: communications of great economy literal accuracy is less important than its power to evoke.
achieved through the use of unexpected associations A long time ago, I wrote a short piece about brands in between contrasting or disparate words or ideas.
which I said: People build brands as birds build nests, Koestler calls it bisociation.
from scraps and straws we chance upon.
And Ive been Metaphors, analogies and similes invite the receivers extremely gratied ever since to nd this phrase quite widely participation, as in a joke: so that the point is not ried picked up and approvingly quoted.
relentlessly home but is seen.
Examined forensically, 82 WPP Annual Report 2004 most high-potency insights wont even be semantically Acknowledgements accurate.
Thats because they work not through description The low-potency versions of Levitts drill and my birds nest but through allusion.
They should, however, convey a aphorisms were written by Stephen King.
of marketing jargon, he can parody it with devastating Giving high potency to an insight is an intensely creative effect and Im extremely grateful to him.
I also invited act: it requires a massive injection of imagination.
As with him to produce a low-potency version of anything from any other creative act, it also demands an understanding Shakespeare.
He chose the Polonius speech from Hamlet, of what is already in the receivers mind: and just as Neither a borrower nor a lender be importantly, what is not already in the receivers mind.
In overseas assignments it is essential to keep an Metaphors, similes and analogies work only when the appropriate and sustainably balanced credit debit ratio.
reference points are already familiar to their audience.
Unsecured loans may be irrecoverable and can endanger Levitts audience already knew about drills and holes.
potentially profitable relationships, while sporadic Poets, of course, do it instinctively.
Thats why the works borrowing inows can conceal the underlying reality of Shakespeare contain so many quotations.
For a short, of cash ow projections.
cheap course in evocative communication, the Oxford Dictionary of Quotations can be highly recommended.
Many of the ideas and illustrations in this essay began The origins of an insight are usually to be found in life in a Keynote Address to The Market Research numbers.
Thats how we know an insight to be more than Society Conference, London, March 2005. airy whim: thats how we know it has substance: that it can The author is the Societys current president.
But, except to the supernaturally numerate, numbers seldom sing spontaneously.
For the rest of us, numbers conceal enlightenment at least as effectively as jargon.
Thats when we need to call on words provocative, allegorical words to let in fresh air: to liberate the insight and give it immediate, self-evident potency.
In both research companies and creative agencies, there are people we know who can effect this alchemy.
They do it every time they turn dry, mechanistic market analysis, first into creative strategy and then occasionally into sublime creative execution.
We should use them more often, consciously and deliberately, to cast the same spell on recalcitrant data.
Its no new thought to suggest that the value of an insight, the utility of an insight, is dependent not only on the originality and accuracy of that insight but at least as much on the potency of its expression.
Its exactly what Alexander Pope was getting at: True wit is nature to advantage dressd, What oft was thought but neer so well expressd.
It is almost certainly the case that, already paid for, theres a great Aladdins cave of knowledge out there: but as yet unlocked by consummate expression.
Its as if great quantities of rough and unappealing diamonds had already been mined and then left to moulder in a warehouse.
In the real world of diamonds, of course, that would never be allowed to happen.
If diamonds are to deliver their real value, they need to be cut and polished.
And we should be as insistent as the diamond trade that, once unearthed, they be cut and polished and made to glitter and inspire.
So to return to the beginning: Why is a Good Insight Like a Refrigerator?
Because the moment you look into it, a light comes on.
Jeremy Bullmore Member WPP Advisory Board WPP Annual Report 2004 83 Who runs Who runs WPP WPP Board of directors Members of the Board of directors Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Who runs WPP Paul Richardson Finance director Howard Paster Director Mark Read Strategy director Esther Dyson Non-executive Orit Gadiesh Non-executive David Komansky Non-executive Christopher Mackenzie Non-executive Stanley Bud Morten Non-executive Koichiro Naganuma Non-executive Lubna Olayan Non-executive John Quelch Non-executive Jeffrey Rosen Non-executive Paul Spencer Non-executive Members of the Advisory Board Jeremy Bullmore John Jackson Company Secretary Marie Capes 84 WPP Annual Report 2004 Board of directors Esther Dyson Age 53 Non-executive director Esther Dyson was appointed a director in 1999.
She recently sold her business, EDventure Holdings, to CNET Networks, Philip Lader Age 59 Non-executive chairman the US-based interactive media company.
She remains editor Philip Lader was appointed chairman in 2001.
The US of her newsletter, Release 1.0, and continues to host the Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 to 2001, annual PC Forum conference under CNETs ownership.
She he previously served in several senior executive roles in the is an acknowledged luminary in the information technology US Government, including as a Member of the Presidents industry, highly inuential for the past 20 years on the basis Cabinet and as White House Deputy Chief of Staff.
Before of her state-of-the-art knowledge of the online information entering government service, he was executive vice president technology industry worldwide, as well as the emerging of the company managing the late Sir James Goldsmiths US information technology markets of Central and Eastern holdings and president of both a prominent American real Europe.
An angel investor as well as an analyst observer, estate company and universities in the US and Australia.
she recently participated in the sale of Flickr to Yahoo!.
A lawyer, he is also a Senior Advisor to Morgan Stanley, She sits on the boards of other IT start-ups including EVDB, a director of RAND, Marathon Oil and AES Corporations, Meetup.
com, NewspaperDirect Canada, CV-Online a member of the Council of Lloyds Insurance Market, Hungary and Yandex Russia.
She sat on the consumer a trustee of the British Museum and a member of the advisory board of Orbitz until its recent sale to Cendant.
Orit Gadiesh Age 54 Non-executive director Sir Martin Sorrell Age 60 Chief executive Orit Gadiesh was appointed a director in April 2004.
She is Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, chairman of Bain & Company, Inc. and a world-renowned becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
expert on management and corporate strategy.
She holds e-mail: msorrell wpp.
com an MBA from Harvard Business School and was a Baker @ Scholar.
She is a board member of the HBS Visiting Paul Richardson Age 47 Finance director Committee Harvard Business School and Deans Advisory Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP Board Kellogg School in the US and the Haute Ecole in 1996 after four years with the Company as director Commerciale in France.
She sits on the Boards of the Federal of treasury.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide Reserve Bank of New England and the Peres Institute for functions in finance, information technology, procurement Peace and is a member of the Council of Foreign Relations.
Previously he spent six years with the central financial team of Hanson PLC.
He is a chartered accountant David H Komansky Age 66 Non-executive director and member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He David Komansky was appointed a director in January 2003. is a non-executive director of Chime Communications PLC He was chairman of the Board of Merrill Lynch & Co, Inc, and STW Communications Group Limited in Australia, serving until his retirement on 28 April 2003.
He served as both of which are companies associated with the Group.
chief executive officer from 1996 to 2002, having begun his e-mail: prichardson wpp.
com career at Merrill Lynch in 1968.
Among many professional @ afliations, he serves as a director of Black Rock, Inc. and Howard Paster Age 60 Director as a member of the International Advisory Board of the Howard Paster was appointed a director in January 2003.
Active in many civic He was previously chairman and chief executive officer of and charitable organisations, he serves on the Boards of Hill & Knowlton, Inc.
He joined the WPP parent company the New York Presbyterian Hospital, the American Museum in August 2002, overseeing WPPs portfolio of public of Natural History and the National Academy Foundation.
relations and public affairs businesses.
He is also the director responsible for the Companys corporate responsibility Christopher Mackenzie Age 50 Non-executive director policy.
Prior to joining Hill & Knowlton Inc. he served as Christopher Mackenzie was appointed a director in 2000. assistant to President Clinton and director of the White He is chief executive of Equilibrium, a London-based House Ofce of Legislative Affairs.
He is a member of the financial advisory partnership, and Executive Chairman board of trustees of Tuskegee University, president of the of Brunswick Capital, Russias leading investment bank Little League Foundation and a member of the Council on and non-bank financial services group.
He is also a board Foreign Relations.
member of ALJ, Saudi Arabias largest non-government e-mail: hpaster wpp.
Previously he was president and CEO @ of Trizec Properties and a company officer of GE, heading Mark Read Age 38 Strategy director GE Capitals international business development.
Mark Read was appointed a director in March 2005.
He has been WPPs director of strategy since 2002.
He worked at WPP between 1989 and 1995 in both parent company and operating company roles.
Prior to rejoining WPP in 2002, he was a principal at the consultancy rm of BoozAllen & Hamilton and founded and developed the company WebRewards in the UK.
com @ WPP Annual Report 2004 85 Who runs WPP John Quelch Age 53 Non-executive director John Quelch was appointed a director in 1988.
He is Senior Who runs WPP Associate Dean and Lincoln Filene Professor of Business Administration at Harvard Business School.
Between 1998 Board of directors and 2001 he was Dean of the London Business School.
He also serves as chairman of the Massachusetts Port Authority.
Professor Quelchs writings focus on global business practice in emerging as well as developed markets, international marketing and the role of the multinational corporation and the nation state.
He is a non-executive director of Inverness Medical Innovations, Inc. and Pepsi Bottling Group Inc.
He served previously on the boards of Blue Circle Industries plc, easyJet plc, Pentland Group plc and Stanley Bud Morten Age 61 Non-executive director Reebok International Limited.
Bud Morten was appointed a director in 1991.
He is a consultant and private investor.
He is currently the Jeffrey A. Rosen Age 57 Non-executive director Independent Consultant to Citigroup Smith Barney with Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director in December 2004. responsibility for its independent research requirements.
He is a deputy chairman and managing director of Lazard Previously he was the chief operating officer of Punk, LLC.
Previously, he was a managing director of Wasserstein Ziegel & Co, a New York investment banking rm with Perella & Co. Inc. since its inception in 1988, and chairman a focus on the healthcare and technology industries.
He has over 30 years Before that he was the managing director of the equity experience in international investment banking and division of Wertheim Schroder & Co, Inc. in New York.
He is a member of the Council on He is a non-executive director of Register.
In July 2005, he will become president a NASDAQ-listed US public company.
of the Board of Trustees of the International Center of Photography in New York.
Koichiro Naganuma Age 60 Non-executive director Koichiro Naganuma was appointed a director in February Paul Spencer Age 55 Non-executive director 2004.
He is president and group chief operating officer Paul Spencer was appointed a director in April 2004. of Asatsu-DK, also known as ADK.
Joining the agency He is a nancier with 20 years experience in the financial in 1981, he began his career with the international arm of management of a number of blue chip companies, including the agency.
His mandate thereafter expanded to the total British Leyland PLC, Rolls-Royce PLC, Hanson PLC and operation of the group.
He replaced ADK Chairman Masao Royal & Sun Alliance PLC.
He served as UK chief executive Inagaki on the Board who retired upon the appointment of of Royal & Sun Alliance PLC between 1999 and 2002.
ADK is Japans third largest advertising and He is the non-executive chairman of State Street Managed communications company, and ninth largest in the world.
Pension Funds and of Goshawk Insurance Group PLC.
WPP took a 20% interest in ADK in 1998.
He is also the chairman of Association of Corporate Treasurers Advisory Board and of NS&I National Savings, Lubna Olayan Age 49 Non-executive director a UK government-owned retail savings institution.
He is As CEO of Olayan Financing Company, Lubna Olayan is also on the boards of Nipponkoa Insurance Europe Ltd, responsible for the Olayan Groups business and investments Sovereign Reversions Group plc and Britannic Group plc.
in Saudi Arabia and the Middle East.
In December 2004, she Paul is a governor of Motability, a UK charity for the disabled.
was elected to the Board of Saudi Hollandi Bank, the first woman to be elected to the board of a Saudi listed company.
The following also served as directors during the year: From 1996 through 2004, she served on the board of Beth Axelrod resigned 24 March 2005.
Chelseld, the UK property developer.
She is a member of Jeremy Bullmore retired 30 September 2004.
INSEADs International Council and a trustee of the Arab John Jackson retired 30 September 2004.
She is also a member on the Arab Michael Jordan retired 28 June 2004. Business Council and the Womens Leadership Initiative of the World Economic Forum.
86 WPP Annual Report 2004 Senior ofcers and advisors to the Board Strategic thinking, creativity Investor relations Stockbrokers and client co-ordination C Sweetland Merrill Lynch International Corporate Broking P Dart F Butera 2 King Edward Street N French London Corporate communications J Steel EC1A 1HQ F McEwan Corporate and geographical development Panmure Gordon & Co Ltd V Edwards 50 Stratton Street A G B Scott K McCormack London A Newman W1J 8LL Company secretarial and legal R Smits C Black M Capes Auditors and accountancy advisors D F Calow Branding & identity, Healthcare and.
Deloitte & Touche LLP A J Harris Specialist communications services Hill House M Povey 1 Little New Street J F Zweig F Bahrampour London M E Howe EC4A 3TR Human resources Investment bankers KPMG LLP M Linaugh Goldman Sachs International Ltd 1 Puddle Dock A Jackson Peterborough Court London W Savage 133 Fleet Street EC4V 3DS London Property EC4A 2BB  LLP E Bauchner Southwark Towers HSBC J Murphy 32 London Bridge Street 8 Canada Square London London Procurement SE1 9SY E14 5HQ T Kinnaird V Chimienti Remuneration consultants Merrill Lynch International P Gomes Towers Perrin 2 King Edward Street K Liew 71 High Holborn London P Permanne London EC1A 1HQ WC1V 6TP Information technology Morgan Stanley & Co Limited D A S Nicoll Deloitte & Touche LLP 25 Cabot Square S Blackburn Hill House Canary Wharf A Garlick 1 Little New Street London S OByrne London E14 4QA EC4A 3TR Knowledge Communities Citigroup Property advisors M Johnson Citigroup Centre D Muir 33 Canada Square Fulcrum Corporate Canary Wharf The Pumphouse Financial control and management reporting London 13-16 Jacobs Well Mews E14 5LB London D Barker W1U 3DY C Sweetland Legal advisors N Douglas James Andrew International S Winters Allen & Overy 72 75 Marylebone High Street K Gill One New Change London London Treasury W1M 3AR EC4M 9QQ P Delaney Jones Lang LaSalle Davis & Gilbert LLP A Koh 22 Hanover Square 1740 Broadway T Lobene London New York J Durcan W1A 2BN NY 10019 Internal audit Cushman & Wakeeld Inc Fried Frank P Stanley 51 West 52nd Street 1 New York Plaza S Whitworth New York New York B Grosvenor NY 10019-6178 NY 10004 P Johnston E Medlar Hammonds 7 Devonshire Square Tax Cutlers Gardens R Azoulay London T O Neuman EC2M 4YH K Farewell WPP Annual Report 2004 87 How we behave 88 WPP Annual Report 2004
