0147 Xstrata AR 2005 97-102 29 3 05 11:52 am Page 97 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2004 | 97 statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements, and, having a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
independent auditors report to the members of Xstrata plc We have audited the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the Consolidated Profit and Loss Accounts, Consolidated Balance Sheets, Parent Company Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Consolidated Shareholders Funds and the related notes 1 to 32.
These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, including the financial statements, which are required to be prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards, as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, in respect of the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
