Notice of Annual General Meeting 95 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 2004 Annual General Meeting of Yell Group plc the Company will be held at The Brewery, Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4SD on Tuesday 13 July 2004 at 11.00am to consider the following resolutions: Ordinary Resolutions Resolution 1 That the report of the directors and auditors, and the audited accounts of the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2004 be received and considered.
The directors are required by law to present to the shareholders of the Company at a general meeting the report of the directors and auditors, and the audited accounts of the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2004.
The report of the directors and the audited accounts have been approved by the directors, and the report of the auditors has been approved by the auditors, and a copy of each of these documents may be found in the Annual Report of the Company starting at page 28.
Resolution 2 That the final dividend of 6 pence per ordinary share in the Company recommended by the directors be declared and, if approved, payable on 20 August 2004 to holders of ordinary shares in the Company registered at the close of business on 23 July 2004.
It is a requirement of law that the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004 be approved by the shareholders of the Company.
The amount to be declared as a final dividend may not exceed the amount recommended by the directors.
Resolution 3 That the report on the remuneration of directors for the year ended 31 March 2004 be approved.
The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require companies to include certain specified information on the remuneration of their directors for each financial year in a report and to give their shareholders an opportunity to approve such report.
The report on the remuneration of the directors of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2004 may be found in the Annual Report of the Company starting at page 30.
Resolution 4 That John Condron be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 5 That John Davis be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 6 That Lyndon Lea be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 7 That Lord Powell of Bayswater be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 8 That Robert Scott be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 9 That Charles Carey be re-elected as a director.
Resolution 10 That John Coghlan be re-elected as a director.
96 Yell Group plc Resolution 11 That Joachim Eberhardt be re-elected as a director.
None of the current directors of the Company submitted themselves for retirement and re-election at the two annual general meetings of the Company that took place prior to the IPO.
Accordingly, as a matter of good order, all of the current directors of the Company believe that they should retire and submit themselves for re-election at the 2004 Annual General Meeting, the first such meeting following the IPO.
Biographical details of all of the directors of the Company may be found in the Annual Report of the Company starting at page 24.
Resolution 12 That  LLP be reappointed auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company before which accounts are laid.
The auditors are responsible for examining the annual accounts of the Company and forming an opinion as to whether they give a true and fair view of its results and financial position.
It is a requirement of law that the Company appoint auditors at each meeting at which accounts are presented to its shareholders, such appointment to continue until the next meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 13 That the directors be authorised to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
This resolution gives the directors of the Company the authority to determine the remuneration of the auditors for the audit work to be carried out by them in the next financial year.
The amount of the remuneration paid to the auditors for the next financial year will be disclosed in the next audited accounts of the Company.
Resolution 14 That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant securities as defined in that Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,323,812.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
However, before this authority expires, the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the authority expires and the directors may allot relevant securities under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 provides that the directors of a company cannot issue new shares in its capital without the approval of its shareholders.
Accordingly, the purpose of this resolution is to give the directors of the Company authority to issue new shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum amount of 2,323,812 which is approximately equivalent to 33.3 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 17 May 2004.
This resolution will allow the directors of the Company flexibility to act in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders by issuing new shares in appropriate circumstances.
Resolution 15 That the Company, and each of Yell Limited and Yellow Pages Sales Limited wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, be authorised to: a make donations to EU political organisations: and b incur EU political expenditure: in an aggregate amount not exceeding 100,000 during the period ending on the date of the next Annual General Meeting.
For the purpose of this resolution 15, the phrases donations, EU political organisations and EU political expenditure shall have the meanings set out in Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The Companies Act 1985 now includes provisions which require companies to obtain authority from their shareholders Notice of Annual General Meeting 97 before they can make donations to EU political organisations or incur EU political expenditure.
The definitions of donations and EU political expenditure are very broad and, as a result, may cover activities which form part of the normal non-partisan relationships between companies and the political world, even though these activities are not designed to support a particular political party or to influence support for any political party, and would not be thought as political donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
The Company does not, directly or through any of its subsidiaries, make donations to any political parties and the Company does not have any intention of doing so in the future.
However, operating as we do in a regulated environment, we have a business need to maintain contact with politicians and political parties within the EU to make them aware of key issues affecting the Company and its subsidiaries, and the industry in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate.
This can involve, for example, involvement in seminars and functions to which politicians may be invited and sponsoring meetings at political parties conferences.
Accordingly, in common with other companies, the Company is seeking the approval of its shareholders, on a precautionary basis so as to avoid contravening the Companies Act 1985, to incur a level of expenditure to cover all of these activities.
Special Resolutions Resolution 16 That, provided resolution 14 has been passed, the directors be authorised under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities as defined in that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on them by resolution 14, or where such allotment constitutes the allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of that Act, as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment.
This authority is limited to: a allotments connected to a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares in the Company excluding any ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares where the rights of each such holder are, as nearly as may be, proportionate to the number of ordinary shares held by such holder.
The directors may exclude certain shareholders, deal with fractions and generally manage the rights issue as they think fit: and b the allotment other than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 348,921.
However, before this authority expires, the Company may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the authority expires and the directors may allot securities under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 gives existing shareholders in a company certain pre-emption rights with respect to allotments of new shares.
A company can only disapply these rights with the approval of its shareholders.
Accordingly, the purpose of this resolution is to allow the directors of the Company to allot ordinary shares in the Company for cash, or to transfer treasury shares for cash, other than to its existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis up to a maximum amount of 348,921 which is equivalent to 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 17 May 2004 and is in line with the recommended guidelines issued by institutional investor bodies.
Resolution 17 That, pursuant to Article 20 of its Articles of Association, the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to purchase its own fully-paid ordinary shares in the Company by way of market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 provided that: a the maximum number of ordinary shares in the Company that the Company may purchase is 69,784,148: b the minimum price that the Company may pay for an ordinary share in the Company is 1.00 pence: 98 Yell Group plc c the maximum price which the Company may pay for an ordinary share in the Company is an amount equivalent to 105 per cent of the middle market price for an ordinary share in the Company as set out in the Daily Official List published by London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately before the day on which the Company agrees to purchase ordinary shares in the Company: and d this authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of this resolution.
However, before this authority expires, the Company may agree to purchase ordinary shares in the Company where the purchase will or may be completed, either fully or partly, after the authority expires and the Company may purchase such ordinary shares as if the authority had not expired.
The directors consider, in certain circumstances, that it may be appropriate and in the best interest of shareholders generally for the Company to purchase its own shares.
This resolution gives authority for the Company to purchase up 69,784,148 Ordinary shares which is approximately equivalent to 10 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at 17 May 2004.
The directors have no specific plans to exercise any authority granted by this resolution in the future, but will keep the matter under review and will only make purchases where, in the light of prevailing market conditions, they consider it will result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share in the Company.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the Company outstanding as at 17 May 2004 was 19,031,668.
This represents 2.73 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to the passing of this resolution and cancel them, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares in the Company outstanding as at 17 May 2004 would represent 3.03 per cent of the reduced issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 which came into force on 1 December 2003 enable companies to retain any of their own shares they have purchased as treasury shares with a view to their possible re-issue at a later date, rather than cancelling them as the law previously required.
The Company will consider holding any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to this resolution as treasury shares, which will give the directors flexibility in the management of the capital base of the Company.
No dividends will be paid on treasury shares while held in treasury, and no voting rights will attach to them.
Resolution 18 That the Articles of Association of the Company produced to the Annual General Meeting and signed by the chairman of the Annual General Meeting for the purposes of identification be adopted as the Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for the existing Articles of Association.
The Company is seeking the approval of its shareholders to alter its Articles of Association to: a remove the rights to appoint non-executive directors that were granted to certain shareholders of the Company at the time of the IPO.
Following the sale by these shareholders in January 2004 of all of the ordinary shares in the Company then held by them, these rights are no longer applicable: b make certain changes to enable the Company to hold its own shares as treasury shares see note to resolution 17 : and c correct certain typographical errors and cross references.
Details of the alterations proposed are set out below: 1.
The deletion in their entirety of the definitions of Affiliate, Apax Funds, Apax Partners Participating Shareholders, Associate, Designated Transferees, Hicks Muse Funds, Hicks Muse Participating Shareholders, and Investor Group from Article 1.
The replacement of the introductory The with the in the definition of the Regulations in Article 1.
The deletion of the words in its capacity from the definition of UK Listing Authority in Article 1, and the replacement of the roman numeral IV with VI in that definition.
The replacement of the introductory The with the in the second and third lines of Article 3, and the insertion of the words, and as further amended by the Companies Act 1985 Electronic Communications Order 2000 after the words Companies Tables A to F Amendment Regulations 1985 in that Article.
Notice of Annual General Meeting 99 5.
The insertion of : i after the words unconditional authority to in Article 7, the insertion of the words, or rights to subscribe for, dispose of after the words grant options over in that Article, the replacement of the words or rights to subscribe for with : ii dispose of or otherwise deal with all the shares held by the Company as treasury shares: and iii in that Article, and the insertion of the words, in each case after the words convert any security into shares in that Article.
The insertion of the words, or sale of shares if, immediately before such sale, the shares were held by the Company as treasury shares after the words The Company may also on any issue of shares in the second sentence of Article 8.
The insertion of the words excluding any shares of that class held by the Company as treasury shares after the words of the issued shares of that class in Article 14.1.
The insertion of the words excluding shares held by the Company as treasury shares after the words convert any paid up shares in Article 18.1.
The insertion of the words, if the issued share capital of the Company is divided into more than one class, after the words including but not limited to redeemable shares, but in Article 20.1.
The replacement of the word sub-paragraph with Article in Article 60.1.
The replacement of the word sub-paragraph with Article in Article 60.4.
The replacement of the word sub-paragraph and sub-paragraphs with, respectively, Article and Articles in Article 61, and the deletion of the words of Article 60 in that Article.
The deletion of the words the next in Article 86.1.
The replacement of the words and Article 99 with 99 in the last sentence in Article 99.2 15.
The insertion of the words excluding any shares of that class held by the Company as treasury shares after the words issued shares of the class in question in Article 105.3.
The insertion of the words notice served under after the words the service of a in Article 106.4, and the replacement of the word notice with of the 1985 Act in that Article.
The replacement of the words London Stock Exchange with UK Listing Authority in Article 107, the replacement of the word given with served in that Article, the insertion of the words notice served under after the words the service of a in that Article, and the replacement of the word notice after the reference to section 212 with of the 1985 Act in that Article.
The insertion of the words excluding any shares of that class held by the Company as treasury shares after the words issued shares of their class in Article 107.2.
The replacement of the words issues and issue with, respectively, serve and serves in Article 108.
The insertion of the words notice served under after the words required by the relevant in Article 110.1.
2, and the replacement of the word notice after the reference to section 212 with of the 1985 Act in that Article.
The deletion of the word these in Article 111.
The deletion in its entirety of Article 116.
The replacement of the words paragraph with Article in Articles 151.1.
The replacement of the word paragraph with Article in Article 153.2.
The insertion of the words excluding any shares of that class held by the Company as treasury shares after the words or of any other company in Article 164.4.
The insertion of the words excluding shares held by the Company as treasury shares after the words announce that shareholders in Article 204.
The insertion of the words for the purposes of this Article: i after the word However in Article 205.2, and the insertion of the words : and ii where the amount capitalised is applied in paying up in full unissued shares, the Company will also be entitled to participate in the relevant distribution in relation to any shares of the relevant class held by the Company as treasury shares, and the proportionate entitlement of the relevant class of members to the distribution will be calculated accordingly after the words fully paid bonus shares in that Article.
The replacement of the word paragraph with Article in Article 206.2.
The insertion of the words that he was at the time of his appointment not qualified for appointment after the words some defect in his appointment in Article 212 and the deletion of the words for appointment at the end of that Article.
The replacement of the word given in Article 215 with serve.
The insertion of the words excluding the Company holding shares as treasury shares after the words divide among the members in Article 224.
The renumbering of the articles and relevant cross references to take into account the changes set out above.
Please note that all references to articles by their number are to those articles as numbered in the Articles of Association of the Company in force at the commencement of the Annual General Meeting.
Only holders of ordinary shares in the Company on the Register of Members of the Company at 11am on 11 July 2004 are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
A holder of ordinary shares in the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment system may do so for the Annual General Meeting by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Documents The following documentation is available for inspection during business hours at the registered office of the Company on any weekday not including public holidays.
They will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting venue, from 9.30 am until the meeting concludes.
Register of interest of directors and their families in the share capital of the Company.
Copy of all service contracts between the directors and the Company.
Copy of the existing Articles of Association of the Company.
Copy of the proposed amended Articles of Association of the Company.
Printed copies of this Notice of Annual General Meeting and the Companys Annual Report 2003 04.
Further copies of the Companys Annual Report can be sent to shareholders on request, or viewed on the Companys website at www.
By Order Of the Board Howard Rubenstein Company Secretary 26 May 2004 GLOSSARY FY03 - The financial year ending 31 March 2003 FY04 - The financial year ending 31 March 2004 FY05 - The financial year ending 31 March 2005 Constant exchange rate - Constant exchange rate states current year results at the same exchange rate as that used to translate the previous years results for the corresponding year EBITDA - Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Adjusted EBITDA - Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, exceptional costs in 2003 and 2004 and a non-recurring restructuring charge in 2003 Operating cash flow - Cash flow from operations before exceptional costs, less capital expenditure Cash conversion - Operating cash flow as a percentage of adjusted EBITDA FTSE 100 - The largest 100 companies quoted on the London Stock Exchange SME - Small and medium sized companies i. e. those employing fewer than 250 people and less than 25% owned by a third party IPO - The global offer of ordinary shares of the Company on 15 July 2003, and the subsequent admission of ordinary shares of the Company to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Financial Year Ending 31 March 2004 Full Year results 18 May 2004 Annual General Meeting 13 July 2004 Final dividend record date 23 July 2004 Final dividend payment date 20 August 2004 Financial Year Ending 31 March 2005 First quarter results July 2004 Half year results November 2004 Interim dividend payment date December 2004 CONTACT DETAILS Share registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA Website for online information about your holding www.
co. uk Lloyds TSB Registrars telephone line for shareholders 08706 094537 Lloyds TSB Registrars telephone line for employee shareholders 08706 094538 Text phone for the hard of hearing 08706 003 950 Yell Group plc is registered in the UK and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
It has US dollar denominated bonds and therefore files an Annual Report on Form 20-F which is filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Copies of this Annual Report and Form 20-F can be obtained from the Companys website www.
com Yell Limited, Queens Walk, Oxford Road, Reading, Berkshire RG1 7PT Trade mark of Yell Limited Designed by Timothy Guy Design Printed by RR Donnelley 26 May 2004
