93 Annual Report 2003 04 TWO YEAR OPERATIONAL INFORMATION Selected Unaudited Yell Group Operational Information The table below sets out selected unaudited operational data for the Group for the periods indicated.
Year ended or at 31 March 2003 2004 Yell Group Operational Information UK information 1 Unique advertisers thousands 451 480 2 Directory editions published 94 99 Turnover per unique advertiser 1,272 1,237 4 Unique advertiser retention rate % 78 77 US information 1 3 Unique advertisers thousands 363 386 Directory editions published 525 536 Turnover per unique advertiser $ 2,135 2,434 4 Unique advertiser retention rate % 70 70 Other UK products and services Yell.
com page impressions for March millions 39 67 5 Yell.
com searchable advertisers as at 31 March thousands 75 103 1 Number of unique advertisers in printed directories that were recognised for turnover purposes and have been billed.
Unique advertisers are counted once only, regardless of the number of advertisements they purchase or the number of directories in which they advertise.
2 The number of directory editions published in the UK has increased due to the rescoping of the Colchester directory into two directories, Colchester and Ipswich: the rescoping of the Shefeld direction into two directories, Shefeld and Barnsley: and the publication of three new Business Pages directories.
3 As a result of the progress in the US towards integrating our customer database, we have been able to make improvements in the ways in which we capture, record and analyse customer information.
This has led to a significant overall elimination of duplicate records of unique advertisers.
We have not adjusted the previously reported 2003 gure for any duplicated records in 2003.
There remains some overlap in reporting unique advertisers between Yellow Book and the former McLeod operations that we expect to be removed.
These improvements have not affected the reporting of our financial results.
4 The proportion of unique advertisers that have renewed their advertising from the preceding publication.
In the UK, this measure excludes national and key accounts where retention is very high.
In the US, this measure is based on unique directory advertisers.
5 Unique customers with a live contract at month end.
These gures refer to searchable advertisers only, i. e. advertisers for whom users can search on Yell.
It excludes advertisers who purchase products such as banners and domain names.
The annual report contains forward-looking statements.
These statements appear in a number of places in this report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations concerning, among other things, our results of operations, turnover, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies, new products, the level of new directory launches and the markets in which we operate.
Readers are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors.
You should read the section entitled Risk Factors in Yell Finance BVs 2004 annual report on Form 20-F to be filed with the SEC in June 2004 for a discussion of some of these factors.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as may be required by law.
