34 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 Corporate governance Successful companies are valuable not only to their shareholders but also to a wide community of individuals and organisations that benefit from the goods, services and wealth they generate.
A companys board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the right leadership, strategy and control structures are present to produce and sustain the delivery of this value.
The essential elements of good corporate governance are having well thought out and robust means of delivering the right leadership, the right strategy and the right controls.
The Board of BAE Systems, like the rest of the company, strives continually to improve its performance and, in the area of corporate governance, recognises the need to do this against a background of considerable change in recent years.
In particular, the Board has noted the changes to the US corporate governance environment and will use these developments as well as possible further changes in the UK and the European Union to inform best practice.
Good corporate governance, and its visibility, gives confidence to all associated with a company that it is being managed well and that value is being created.
Our objective in this report, and those produced by the Boards committees, is to communicate the key elements of the companys governance structure and relate this to the principles in the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Dick Olver, Chairman The Board strategy, ensuring that it is implemented and that The Board is scheduled to meet on six occasions Every company should be headed by business plans supporting the strategy are during the year and usually a number of an effective board, which is collectively integrated across all of the company businesses additional meetings are called as required.
In responsible for the success of the company.
The IBP process is managed by 2004 it met on 12 occasions.
At each scheduled Combined Code Main Principle A.
1 the Chief Executive with the Board being involved meeting the Board reviews the companys closely in evaluating the strategic options for the performance against the agreed business plan The Board of BAE Systems recognises that it is company and in ultimately agreeing the strategy and and also major contracts and variances to the responsible for the leadership of the company the resultant business plan.
Once agreed by the profitability forecast for these contracts.
and that in discharging this responsibility it is Board, it uses the IBP to set objectives and stretch required to take decisions objectively and in the Whilst the Board has delegated the normal targets for senior management and to monitor the best interests of the company.
The Board operational management of the company to the operational performance of the company.
During through a single document, the Operational Chief Executive, it has agreed a formal schedule the year as part of the IBP process the Board and Framework, has provided all employees with of matters that are reserved for its decision.
the companys Executive Committee spent a details of the standards of behaviour and key This schedule includes: number of days evaluating and challenging the policies that are mandatory across the - approving the group strategy and business plan: strategic options available to the company.
The areas covered by it include: - ensuring that the company has proper - business ethics The company has developed a number of reporting and internal control systems and - business planning processes and controls aimed at ensuring that appropriate polices are in place to cover - risk management that financial information systems are robust.
matters such as political and charitable - internal control In addition, financial controls and risk donations, health, safety and the - personal behaviour.
management processes are in place to protect environment, employment and the export of the integrity of financial information, ensure defence equipment: Further details of the key business processes that operational decisions are made on a - approving changes to the companys capital described in the Operational Framework appear sound basis and that the companys assets are structure, and, above a certain limit, the below see Internal Control.
The Board has delegated to the Audit raising of debt finance: The Board recognises the importance of having Committee responsibility for reviewing in detail - approving major changes to risk management a clear and well founded business strategy.
The the effectiveness of processes and controls in policies, treasury policies and the group company has over a number of years developed a this area and requires it to report back on these pension schemes: and core process, the Integrated Business Planning matters on a regular basis so that the Board as - above certain limits set by the Board, approving process IBP, for developing the companys a whole can consider them.
the acquisition and disposal of assets.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 35 The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees in 2004 process was at all times controlled by the was as follows: Nominations Committee and its Chairman, Sir Peter Mason.
The Board endorsed Mr Olvers Director Board Audit  nomination and it was agreed that, at the time of Prof S Birley 9 12 4 4 7 7 7 7 his appointment, he was independent based on Dr U Cartellieri 9 12 - 7 7 7 7 the Codes criteria for assessing the Sir Richard Evans 8 8 - - 4 4 independence of directors.
Mr C V Geoghegan 10 12 - - - Mr M J Hartnall 11 12 4 4 - - Board balance and independence Lord Hesketh 8 12 1 1 1 1 4 4 The Board should include a balance of executive Mr M Lester 10 12 - - - and non-executive directors and in particular Sir Peter Mason 10 12 - 7 7 7 7 independent non-executive directors such that Mr S L Mogford 11 12 - - - no individual or small group of individuals can Mr R L Olver 5 5 - - 3 3 dominate the Boards decision making.
Rt Hon M Portillo 11 12 4 4 - 7 7 Combined Code Main Principle A.
3 Mr M H Ronald 9 12 - - - Mr G W Rose 12 12 - - - At present the Board comprises 13 directors, Mr P Scaroni 0 5 0 1 - - of whom seven are non-executive.
The Mr M J Turner 11 12 - - - Nominations Committee and the Board have reviewed the provisions in the Combined Code Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
Whilst six of the Board meetings held during the year were scheduled well in advance, six of the Board meetings were, out of business necessity, called at short notice.
and have concluded that, under the definitions used, all of the non-executive directors are retired 30 June 2004 appointed 17 May 2004 independent with the exception of Lord Hesketh retired 5 May 2004 and Mr Olver.
Lord Hesketh has been a director of the company for eleven years and consequently, based on the guidance in the Combined Code, the Board has concluded that The Operational Framework sets out the groups important role the Board plays in setting overall he is not independent.
Mr Olver was appointed organisation structure together with the performance goals for the company and making a non-executive director on 17 May 2004 and attendant delegated authorities.
The Board has sure that progress is made against them.
was independent from that date until he was recognised that the terms on which the company appointed Chairman on 1 July.
accepts complex long-term contracts is critical Chairman and Chief Executive Mr Scaroni retired from the Board on 5 May 2004: to the performance of the company.
The Board There should be a clear division of throughout the period of his appointment he was has therefore determined that all contract bids responsibilities at the head of the company an independent non-executive director.
Sir Richard and tenders above certain limits must be between the running of the Board and the Evans retired from the Board on 30 June 2004, approved by it and, given the different risk executive responsibility for the running of as a former executive director and employee of profiles of the various stages of a long-term the companys business.
No one individual the company he was not independent.
design and build contract, has set guidelines should have unfettered powers of decision.
on the nature of the contracting arrangements Combined Code Main Principle A.
2 Throughout the year the Board was non-compliant that it is willing to approve.
3.2 that requires that at least The Chairman and Chief Executive have been The Board believes that it is important that it is half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should appointed separately and there is a clear division involved in developing and ultimately agreeing comprise independent non-executive directors.
of responsibilities between these two positions.
the strategy for the company.
Through the IBP The Chairman, who serves in a non-executive The terms of reference of the Boards process the Board agrees the strategic and capacity, is responsible for the effective working Nominations, Audit and Remuneration operational priorities for the company and in of the Board and setting the agenda for its committees state that only members of those turn these priorities are used to determine the meetings.
In order to facilitate the exchange of particular committees have a right to be present objectives and targets for individual directors.
information and ideas, as well as to develop at their meetings.
The membership of these Through the Remuneration Committee the effective working relationships, the executive committees is reviewed on a regular basis to Board ensures that, based on the financial and non-executive directors meet on a number of ensure that undue reliance is not placed on any targets in the IBP, suitable stretch targets are occasions during the year on an informal basis.
The last such review was undertaken set for the executive directors bonus scheme.
by the Nominations Committee in 2004.
The Nominations Committee initiated the The Board has initiated work recently aimed at The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason as search for a successor to the previous chairman ensuring that it has best practice processes for its Senior Independent Director.
in 2003 and completed this process in March establishing performance objectives.
Building 2004 when it was announced that Mr Olver on the existing framework for performance would be appointed Chairman.
The search management, this is aimed at developing the 36 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 Appointments to the Board members of the Board undertook a number The main themes from the evaluation were There should be a formal rigorous of familiarisation visits, including visits to the presented to the Chairman and Senior and transparent procedure for the shipyards in Glasgow and Barrow, the Air Independent Director, prior to this being presented appointment of new directors to the Board.
Systems sites in Lancashire, Airbus in Toulouse, to the Board as a whole.
Some of the points Combined Code Main Principle A.
4 North Americas IESI business sector in made on Board performance, and the actions Merrimack NH and Lexington MA, as well as subsequently agreed by the Board, were: The Board has appointed a committee, the visits to the AMS, MBDA and Flagship joint - there was scope to increase the number of Nominations Committee, with responsibility for ventures in the UK.
New directors are available non-executive directors on the Board the reviewing the composition of the Board on a regular to meet with major shareholders as requested.
Board agreed this point and it was noted that basis and, if deemed necessary, to find suitable search activities had already been initiated When directors first join the Board the Company candidates for nomination to the Board.
Further by the Nominations Committee with a view to Secretary is responsible for ensuring that an details of this work are reported in the Nominations the appointment of additional non-executive induction programme is provided to meet the Committee report shown on page 41. directors, including the appointment of needs of the new director.
Typically this process individuals with US experience: One of the Boards prime responsibilities is will cover the duties of a director, familiarisation - the number of scheduled Board meetings ensuring that robust processes are in place for with the companys core processes and system should be increased the Board has agreed identifying and developing the companys of internal control as well gaining an that the number of meetings scheduled for management resources.
BAE Systems has understanding of the various businesses by 2005 should be seven, rising to eight in 2006: developed such a process and this has been meeting with senior managers throughout the - the Boards committees were well chaired but integrated into its human resources management company.
To date this has not included specific would benefit from the appointment of processes.
The Board undertakes a review of training in social, environmental and ethical additional members following review by the management resources each year with a view to matters, however in future this will be the case.
Nominations Committee the Board agreed that ensuring that succession plans are in place for all The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is Sir Peter Mason should join the Audit Committee senior management positions.
The Nominations responsible for advising the Board on governance as it was believed that his specific knowledge Committee undertakes a similar review covering matters.
The Company Secretary is appointed by, of large-scale prime contracting would be a the executive appointments to the Board and can only be removed by, the Board.
Committee membership will including that of Chief Executive.
be further reviewed when additional nonPerformance evaluation executive appointments have been made: Information and professional development The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous - corporate responsibility could be given a The Board should be supplied in a timely annual evaluation of its own performance and that higher priority on the Boards agenda as manner with information in a form and of a of its committees and individual directors.
reported later in this report, the Board has quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
All Combined Code Main Principle A.
6 agreed to form a Corporate Responsibility directors should receive induction on joining Committee.
the board and should regularly update and The Board has recently undertaken an refresh their skills and knowledge.
evaluation of its own effectiveness and that The following points were also made in the Combined Code Main Principle A.
5 of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration evaluation: committees.
The performance of individual - the Board was well informed of major areas The Board has agreed the format of a report that directors was also evaluated as part of this of importance to the company with efficient it receives regularly from the Chief Executive process.
External consultants were employed means of communication in place: detailing the performance of the companys to help facilitate this process and it is believed - decision making was good, aided by the rigour businesses relative to the business plan that the involvement of an independent third and discipline employed in the development approved by the Board.
This report also informs party helped to ensure that the performance of strategy.
the Board of matters concerning marketing, evaluation was rigorous and fair to all involved.
investor relations, corporate finance, mergers The Board will be implementing, during the course and acquisitions and human resources.
The evaluation was aimed at reviewing how of 2005, a number of actions that have been agreed effective the Board was in discharging its duties in response to points made in the evaluation The Chief Executive is responsible for ensuring and the behaviours of those sat around the board exercise, including those detailed above.
that the training and development needs of table.
The views of all directors and the Company the executive directors are understood and Secretary were sought through a questionnaire Annual re-election addressed.
The Company Secretary is and a structured interview with the facilitators.
All directors should be submitted for re-election at responsible for working with the non-executive regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory directors to provide the resources and Feedback on individual performance was performance.
The Board should ensure planned assistance required to keep their skills and provided to directors individually by the and progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Senior Independent Director, Combined Code Main Principle A.
7 executive directors are regularly provided with having first discussed the matter with the opportunities to develop their understanding facilitators, provided the Chairman with feedback The Nominations Committee Report page 41 of the company by visiting its facilities and on his performance: similarly the Chief Executive outlines the work of the committee in planning meeting with employees.
During 2004 received feedback on his performance.
for the progressive refreshing of the Board.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 37 The companys Articles of Association require understood assessment of the companys management from inception including the bid that all new directors seek re-election to the performance and have given guidance on its future process through to product delivery and Board at the following Annual General Meeting prospects.
In producing the operating and financial ultimately customer support.
In addition, all directors are required to review OFR section of this report pages 10 to 27 Further key processes are Integrated Business stand down and seek re-election to the Board at the company has looked to conform with the Planning IBP, monthly Contract Status least once every three years.
Accounting Standards Boards statement of best Reviews, Quarterly Business Reviews QBR and practice concerning such reporting.
Recognising The evaluation process detailed earlier in this Monthly Finance Reviews.
The IBP approved that the UK government has introduced legislation report included an evaluation of all directors by annually by the Board, results in an agreed longconcerning the contents of a companys OFR, their fellow Board members.
Taking the term strategy for each business group, together BAE Systems will be taking action in 2005 to information from this into account, the with detailed near-term budgets.
The QBRs ensure that it is well placed to provide shareholders Chairman will be advising shareholders in the evaluate progress against the IBP and are with an OFR that builds on our existing practice Notice of Meeting for the forthcoming AGM that chaired by the Chief Operating Officers and and is compliant with these new requirements.
the three directors standing for re-election are the Group Managing Director of the CS&S and effective and committed members of the Board After making due enquiries, the directors have a Land Systems business.
and recommends that shareholders vote in reasonable expectation that the group has Whilst the quality of the control processes is favour of their re-election.
adequate resources to continue in operational fundamental to the overall control environment, existence for the foreseeable future.
For this As required by the companys Articles of the consistent application of these processes is reason they continue to adopt the going concern Association the Chairman will be seeking equally important.
In the last few years a great basis in preparing the accounts.
election at this years AGM it being the first AGM deal of management time has been devoted to immediately following his appointment to the achieving the robust application of core control Internal control Board, and the Nominations Committee and processes and good progress has been made.
The Board should maintain a sound system of the Board recommend that shareholders vote However, this area has been targeted for further internal controls to safeguard shareholders in favour of his election.
improvement and the consistent application of investments and the companys assets.
world-class control processes will remain one Mr Turner, Mr Ronald and Sir Peter Mason will Combined Code Main Principle C. 2 of managements prime objectives.
Likewise retire by rotation and seek re-election at the BAE Systems has developed a system of the monitoring of performance in this area will AGM.
As executive directors, both Mr Turner and internal control that encompasses, amongst continue to be a key responsibility for the Mr Ronald have service agreements with the other things, the policies, processes, tasks Audit Committee and the Board.
Mr Turners agreement requires that and behaviours, that taken together, seek to: the company give him 12 months notice of The company is committed to the protection of - facilitate the effective and efficient operation termination.
Mr Ronalds is of a fixed term its assets, which include human, property and of the company by enabling it to respond nature and as at the date of this report the financial resources, through an effective risk appropriately to significant operational, unexpired term is 311 days.
Sir Peter Mason management process, underpinned where financial, compliance and other risks that it is a non-executive director and does not have appropriate by insurance.
faces in carrying out its business: a service agreement, his letter of appointment - assist in ensuring that internal and external The Internal Audit team independently reviews does not have a notice period.
Lord Hesketh reporting is accurate and timely and based on the risk identification procedures and control will retire at the companys AGM to be held on the maintenance of proper records supported processes implemented by management.
It 4May 2005 and will not seek re-election.
by robust information gathering processes: and provides objective assurance as to the operation The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual - assist in ensuring that the company complies and validity of the systems of internal control General Meeting enclosed with this report their with applicable laws and regulations at all through a programme of cyclical reviews making reasons for supporting the re-election of the times and also internal policies in respect recommendations for business and control directors seeking re-election at the forthcoming of the standards of behaviour and conduct improvements and tracking their implementation.
The evaluation exercise undertaken by the mandated by the Board.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee Board confirms that the performance of the Reporting within the company is structured responsibility for reviewing in detail the directors seeking re-election continues to be so that key issues are escalated through the effectiveness of the companys system of internal effective and that they continue to show management team ultimately to the Board controls including risk management processes.
The Operational Framework Having undertaken such reviews, the Committee provides a common framework across the reports to the Board on its findings so that the Financial reporting company for operational and financial controls.
Board as a whole can take a view on these The Board should present a balanced The business processes detailed within the matters.
In order to assist the Audit Committee and understandable assessment of the Operational Framework draw on global best and the Board in this review, the company utilises companys position and prospects.
practice and their application is mandated a process, the Operational Assurance Statement Combined Code Main Principle C. 1 across the organisation.
This has been subject to regular In preparing these reports the directors have LCM is such a process: properly applied, this review over a number of years, which has resulted sought to present a balanced and easily process is key to helping deliver effective project in a number of refinements being made.
38 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 The OAS requires that each part of the business The Board is responsible for all CR matters Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The company will complete a formal review of its compliance and recognises the importance of providing not tolerate bribery or any attempt by way of gifts, against the Operational Framework, including the company with clear leadership in this area.
payments or favours to influence improperly the operational and financial controls and risk The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive decisions of our customers or suppliers.
It is signed-off by the responsibility for all CR operational matters and A comprehensive compliance programme has managing director of every business unit, all he has given specific responsibility for health, been in place for a number of years and is aimed functional directors and the executive directors.
safety and environment to the Group HR at ensuring that our policies in this area are The OAS is completed every half year and Director and for our anti-corruption compliance observed and enforced.
To date over 2,500 includes a formal assessment of business risk.
programme to the Group Legal Director.
They are employees, in a position where such training is supported in this work by a dedicated Corporate The overall responsibility for the system of relevant, have received training as part of this Responsibility team and our Corporate internal control within BAE Systems rests with programme and the company looks to ensure Responsibility Forum, which draws on staff with the directors of the company.
Responsibility for that it remains at the forefront of work being relevant expertise across all group businesses.
establishing and operating detailed control undertaken by companies in this area.
All directors receive on a monthly basis a report procedures lies with the managing director of from the Chief Executive that includes, where The Board recognises that compliance with these each operating business.
appropriate, information on CR matters.
two areas is of critical importance to the company.
In line with any system of internal control, the The Board has agreed recently to form a The company publishes a separate Corporate policies and procedures that are mandated in Corporate Responsibility Committee that will Responsibility Report.
This can be found on the the Operational Framework are designed to be responsible for reviewing and monitoring the companys website or obtained from the manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure processes the company uses to manage social, Company Secretary.
to achieve business objectives, and can only environmental and ethical risks and to assist provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the Board in developing its strategy and policy Relations with shareholders against material misstatement or loss.
The committee will report to the There should be a dialogue with shareholders Board on a regular basis and will be chaired based on the mutual understanding of The responsibility for internal control procedures by one of the non-executive directors.
The Board as a whole has with joint ventures and other collaborations rests responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory primarily with the senior management of those Pages 28 to 31 of this report deals with CR dialogue with shareholders takes place.
The company monitors its investments matters, however the Board has always Combined Code Main Principle D. 1 and exerts influence through Board representation.
recognised that, given the nature of our business, The Board should use the AGM to communicate certain CR risks will be more critical than others.
The internal control processes detailed above with investors and to encourage their participation.
Compliance with export regulations and were in place throughout 2004 and in 2005 to Combined Code Main Principle D. 2 compliance with international anti-corruption the date of this report and in this period were in laws and regulations are two such areas and the accord with the guidance in the Turnbull Report.
The company has a comprehensive investor companys policy in these areas is outlined below: relations programme aimed at providing existing Corporate responsibility and potential investors with a means of Export of defence equipment Recognising the importance of corporate developing their understanding of the company The key elements of our policy concerning the responsibility CR concerns the social, and raising any concerns and issues they may export of defence equipment are: environmental and ethical issues associated have.
In 2004, the company held 226 meetings - to maintain an active and open dialogue with the companys operations the Board has with major investors, 70 of these were attended with relevant government departments in agreed that it will review formally on an annual by the Group Finance Director, 31 by the Chief the territories in which we operate to ensure basis the companys performance in this area.
Executive and 11 by the Chairman.
compliance with government policy and the The Board has agreed policies concerning the law and regulations of those territories The Board has agreed that each year it should management of important CR matters and governing the export of our products: formally review investor relations matters with a these have been incorporated into the - to comply at all times with the conditions of view to ensuring that all members of the Board companys Operational Framework.
The OAS export licences and other regulations and are acquainted with any issues or concerns that process described earlier is used to provide controls applicable to the sale of military and major shareholders may have.
The company the Board with assurance that all parts of the dual-use equipment and technology: and undertakes on a regular basis a survey of company have acted in compliance with key CR - to respect the values of the international institutional shareholders opinions and views, policies.
Integrated into the OAS process is a community and the laws of those countries the results of which are reported to the Board.
risk identification and management process that where we conduct our business.
looks at all risks, including CR risks be they of a The company maintains a comprehensive short or long term nature.
This in turn draws on Compliance with international anti-corruption laws Investor Relations website that provides, a number of dedicated CR risk processes used BAE Systems demands and expects honesty, amongst other things, information on investing throughout the group.
Compliance with key CR integrity and fairness in all aspects of its business.
in BAE Systems and copies of the presentation policies forms part of the work undertaken by In support of this expectation, the company is materials used for key shareholder the Internal Audit function and specialist committed to compliance with laws implementing presentations.
This can be accessed via the compliance personnel.
the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention and the US companys website, www.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 39 The Annual General Meeting provides all Statement of directors responsibilities Audit Committee report shareholders with the opportunity to develop Company law requires the directors to prepare The Board should establish formal and transparent their understanding of the company and ask financial statements for each financial year that arrangements for considering how they should questions on the matters put to the meeting give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of apply the financial reporting and internal control including this report and accounts.
All the company and the group and of the profit or principles and for maintaining an appropriate shareholders are entitled to vote on the loss for that period.
In preparing those financial relationship with the companys auditors.
resolutions put to the AGM and, to ensure that statements, the directors are required to: Combined Code Main Principle C. 3 all votes are counted, the companys Articles - select suitable accounting policies and Members: of Association requires that a poll is taken on then apply them consistently: Michael Hartnall Chairman all the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
- make judgements and estimates that are Prof Sue Birley The results of the votes on the resolutions reasonable and prudent: Sir Peter Mason are published on the companys website.
- state whether applicable accounting Rt Hon Michael Portillo standards have been followed, subject to Responsible for: Compliance statement any material departures disclosed and - reviewing the effectiveness of the companys Companies that have a stock market listing in explained in the financial statements: and financial reporting, internal control policies the United Kingdom are required to report to - prepare the financial statements on the and procedures for the identification, shareholders each year on their compliance, going concern basis unless it is inappropriate assessment and reporting of risk: or otherwise, with the UKs Combined Code on to presume that the company will continue - monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Internal Audit function including approving The Combined Code details what is perceived The directors are responsible for keeping proper the appointment or removal of the Head of to be best practice in the area of corporate accounting records which disclose with reasonable Internal Audit: governance and companies are required to accuracy at any time the financial position of the - considering and making recommendations to report on how they have applied the principles company and to enable them to ensure that the the Board on the appointment of the Auditors: in the Combined Code and to either confirm financial statements comply with the Companies - keeping the relationship with the Auditors that it has complied with the Combined Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for under review, including the terms of their Codes detailed provisions or explain why taking such steps as are reasonably open to them engagement and fees, their independence and they have not complied.
to safeguard the assets of the group and to their expertise, resources and qualifications: The Board has considered the companys prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
- monitoring the integrity of the companys compliance with these provisions and confirms financial statements: that, as at the date of this report, it is compliant - reviewing significant financial reporting with all provisions with the exception of issues and judgements.
This provision requires that at The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee can least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, be found on the companys website or can be obtained should comprise non-executive directors from the Company Secretary.
determined by the Board to be independent.
The Committee is chaired by Michael Hartnall As reported, the Board has agreed that it should who is a chartered accountant and has recent be compliant with this provision and a search experience of serving as a finance director for suitable candidates for appointment to the of a major UK listed company.
In addition to Board in a non-executive capacity is in progress.
Mr Hartnall, there are a further three members It is believed that this process will be successful of the Audit Committee all of whom are and that the Board will in due course be independent non-executive directors.
Lord Hesketh was a member of the Committee In the period from 1 January to 25 February until 25 February 2004.
Mr Scaroni was a 2004 the membership of the Boards Audit member up until his retirement from the Board and Remuneration committees was not on 5 May 2004.
The Committee normally asks compliant with provisions C. 3.1 and B.
2.1 the companys Chief Executive, Group Finance of the Combined Code as one member, Director and Internal Audit Director to attend its Lord Hesketh, was not independent using the meetings together with the Auditors.
However, definitions used in the new Combined Code during the year the Committee did meet when in previous years he had been considered no executive directors were present and has independent under the provisions of the original also met with just the Head of Internal Audit Combined Code.
On 25 February 2004 the present and just the Auditors present.
Board changed the composition of the Audit and Remuneration committees to ensure that the company complied with the new Code.
40 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 The Committee met four times in 2004 and is Audit and management responses to addition to the statutory audit work undertaken scheduled to hold the same number of meetings proposals made in the audit reports issued by the companys Auditors, there will be certain in future years.
The Committee has agreed an by the function during the year: and work of a non-audit nature that is best annual programme of matters to be covered by - received scheduled presentations on the undertaken by the Auditors.
It believes that, the Committee at these scheduled meetings and companys treasury and tax departments provided suitable controls are in place, for the first time in 2004 one of the scheduled and group pensions arrangements.
doing this work does not compromise the meetings was hosted by one of the companys independence of the Auditors.
Consequently, The Committee recognises that one of its key business units, providing the opportunity for the Committee has agreed rules to control responsibilities is reviewing the risks to the the Committee to meet local management and the nature and quantity of non-audit work companys performance and the security of its discuss audit and control processes.
Twice a year the Committee reviews the guidelines have been adopted restricting the Since the beginning of 2004 the Audit output from the group process that is used to employment within the group of individuals Committee has undertaken the following in identify and evaluate risk: this process also formerly employed by the Auditors.
order to discharge its responsibilities: reports on the elimination or mitigation of risk - reviewed the financial statements in the and the relative level of risk within the group.
The Committee oversees the work undertaken 2003 and 2004 reports and accounts and the This information is verified by the Internal Audit by the companys Internal Audit function, interim report issued in September 2004. function and made available to the Auditors.
reviewing, amongst other things, the resourcing As part of this review the Committee received of the function, its proposed audit programme The company has established an employee a report from the Auditors on their audit of and outstanding audit recommendations.
hotline, the BAE Systems Ethics Hotline, to the annual reports and accounts and review During the year, the Committee reviewed the provide a means by which employees can raise of the interim report: performance of the companys Internal Audit concerns they may have about any action that - reviewed the output from the group-wide function.
To inform the Committee on this they believe may be unlawful, dishonest, harmful process used to identify, evaluate and matter, the Auditors, the managing directors to others, against company policy, improper mitigate risks: of all group business units and members of business conduct or is simply unacceptablereviewed the effectiveness of the companys the Committee completed questionnaires behaviour.
To help ensure that employees have internal controls and disclosures made in the on the performance of the function.
faith in this arrangement it is provided by a third annual report and accounts on this matter: party who pass details of calls or emails As reported to shareholders last year, the - reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit received to the Head of Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee has adopted a programme work to be undertaken by the Auditors: operation of the Ethics Hotline is monitored by undertaking a major review of the companys - monitored the work being undertaken by the the Ethics Review Committee: this is chaired Auditors every three years and in the years in company in preparation for the introduction of by the Head of Internal Audit and members between undertaking a review to monitor their International Financial Reporting Standards: are drawn from our legal, internal audit, human performance.
The next major review will be - considered a report from the Auditors on their resources and security departments.
The undertaken later in 2005. review of the effectiveness of controls across Audit Committee receives regular reports on the company and received a report on A review of the performance of the companys individual contacts made to the hotline which management action taken in response to Auditors was undertaken recently by the Audit includes a summary of the nature of the issue work undertaken by the Auditors in 2004: Committee.
On the basis of this review the raised and details of any action taken.
- agreed the fees to be paid to the Auditors Committee recommended to the Board that Additional information on Ethics Hotline for their audit of the 2004 accounts and they support the re-appointment of KPMG Audit reporting is available in the full Corporate interim report: Plc as the companys Auditors.
The Board has Responsibility Report.
- reviewed its own effectiveness: agreed with this recommendation and The Committee has formally reviewed whether - undertaken an evaluation of the consequently a resolution to this effect will there are any factors that may prejudice the performance of the Internal Audit function: be put to shareholders at the companys independence of the Auditors.
Part of this review - undertaken an evaluation of the Annual General Meeting.
involved the receipt of a letter from KPMG Audit performance of the Auditors: Plc confirming that they believed they remained The Chairman of the Committee reports to - agreed a programme of work for the independent within the meaning of the the Board on the proceedings of all Committee companys Internal Audit function: regulations on this matter and their professional meetings and the minutes of all meetings are - received a report from the Internal Audit standards.
The Committee recognises that, in made available to Board members.
Director on the work undertaken by Internal On behalf of the Michael Hartnall Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman 23 February 2005 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 41 Nominations Committee report responsibilities.
To meet this objective the appoint non-executive directors with a US There should be a formal, rigorous and Committee has agreed that each year it background.
Search consultants were engaged transparent procedure for the appointment will meet to review the succession plans in 2004 to assist the Committee in finding of new directors to the board.
for existing members of the Board and suitable candidates for appointment to the Combined Code Main Principle A.
4 consider whether or not it wishes to make Board and they have been provided with a recommendations to the Board regarding clear brief by the Committee on the knowledge, Members: changes to its composition.
When a need for a skills and experience required in prospective Dick Olver Chairman further appointment to the Board is identified candidates.
Prof Sue Birley by the Committee, its practice is to agree the Dr Ulrich Cartellieri profile of the ideal candidate and appoint Lord Hesketh external search consultants to assist in Sir Peter Mason identifying the right person for nomination Rt Hon Michael Portillo to the Board.
Responsible for: In 2004, the Committee completed the - reviewing regularly the structure, size process of nominating a candidate to succeed and composition of the Board and making Sir Richard Evans as Chairman.
At the start of recommendations to the Board on any this process the Committee agreed the profile changes desirable: of the ideal candidate, the scope of the role - identifying and nominating for the Boards and the amount of time that the successful approval suitable candidates to fill vacancies for candidate would need to dedicate to the job.
non-executive directors and, with the assistance External search consultants assisted the of the Chief Executive, executive directors: Committee in the recruitment process that led - planning for the orderly succession of new to the appointment of Dick Olver to the Board directors to the Board: in May 2004.
Mr Olver was, until July last year, - recommending to the Board the membership Deputy Chief Executive of BP p. l. c. and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
Prior to his appointment the Committee agreed the terms of a letter of appointment with The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee can be found on the companys website or can be obtained Mr Olver, requiring that he dedicates on average from the Company Secretary.
not less than two days each week to the role, and that the agreement of the Committee be The Board has established a Nominations sought before accepting additional Committee that, since January this year, has commitments that might affect the time that been chaired by Dick Olver.
Apart from Dick he is able to devote to his duties as a director Olver and Lord Hesketh all of the members of and Chairman of the company.
Mr Olvers other the Committee are independent non-executive business commitments are his duties as directors.
Throughout 2004 Sir Peter Mason Deputy Chairman of TNK-BP, a joint venture was Chairman of the Committee.
Sir Richard company partly owned by his former employer Evans was a member of the Committee until BP p. l. c. and his appointment as a his retirement on 30 June 2004.
Throughout non-executive director of Reuters Group plc.
2004 a majority of the members of the Committee were independent non-executive Also in 2004, the Committee formally reviewed directors.
The Committee met seven times the composition of the Board and following this during the year.
agreed that additional non-executive directors The Committees key objective is to ensure should be sought as soon as possible with the that the Board comprises individuals with the aim of ensuring that at least half the members requisite skills, knowledge and experience to of the Board are independent non-executive ensure that it is effective in discharging its directors.
It also recognised the need to On behalf of the Dick Olver Nominations Nominations Committee Committee Chairman 23 February 2005
