112 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 Shareholder feedback Thank you to everyone who took the time and effort to respond to last year's feedback questionnaire.
This year we have decided to change the way If you have not received a questionnaire, but we receive feedback by including a stand-alone would like to give us feedback, please either questionnaire in a random selection of reports send your written comments to our investor and to utilise e-mail as a cost effective relations team at: communication mechanism.
BAE Systems plc 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD or by e-mail to andy.
com Andrew Wrathall Investor Relations Director 23 February 2005 BAE SYSTEMS plc 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 Registered in England and Wales No.
com Front cover image RAF twin seat Typhoon at BAE Systems, Warton, Lancashire, UK.
AREP2004.001 076 Photo Geoffrey Lee at Planefocus Ltd Annual Review 2004 Contents About BAE Systems Results in brief, Highlights and Outlook 1 Summarised corporate governance 22 BAE Systems is an international company Chairmans letter 2 Summarised remuneration report 24 engaged in the development, delivery and support Chief Executives review 3 Summarised directors report 26 of advanced defence and aerospace systems in Summarised financial review 5 Auditors statement 27 the air, on land, at sea and in space.
Strategy 6 Consolidated profit and loss account 28 The company designs, manufactures Programmes 8 Consolidated balance sheet 29 and supports military aircraft, surface ships, Customer Solutions & Support 10 Statement of total recognised submarines, fighting vehicles, radar, avionics, International Partnerships 12 gains and losses 30 communications, electronics and guided weapon Avionics 13 Note of historical cost profits and losses 30 systems.
It is a pioneer in technology with a North America 14 Reconciliation of movements in heritage stretching back hundreds of years.
It is Commercial Aerospace 18 shareholders funds 30 at the forefront of innovation, working to develop HQ and other businesses 19 Summarised consolidated cash flow the next generation of intelligent defence and Summarised corporate responsibility 20 statement and reconciliation to net debt 31 security systems.
Board of directors 21 Shareholder information 32 BAE Systems has major operations across five continents and customers in some 130 countries.
The company has more than 90,000 people and generates annual sales of approximately 13 billion through its wholly-owned and joint venture operations.
Important note The Company Secretary More information about Annual Report This Annual Review is a summary of the BAE SYSTEMS plc BAE Systems can be found on: information in the full Annual Report of 6 Carlton Gardens on the web www.
It does not contain London SW1Y 5AD sufficient information to allow a full United Kingdom We welcome your views.
understanding of the results of the group Alternatively, visit the companys Email any comments to and state of affairs of the company or of the website, www.
group, and of their policies and arrangements investors@baesystems.
com If in future years you wish to receive concerning directors remuneration.
the full Annual Report you should write For further information, the full Annual Report to the companys registrars, Lloyds TSB should be consulted.
Copies of the full Annual Registrars, at the address shown on Report are available, free of charge, from: page 32.
PostScript Picture Cursor freehand BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 1 2004 2003 Results in brief 1 Order book 50.1 billion 46.0 billion 2 Sales 13,479 million 12,572 million 3 Profit before interest 1,013 million 980 million Loss profit before interest 25 million 453 million 3 Adjusted earnings per share 18.0p 16.6p 4 Loss per share 16.0 p 0.5 p Dividend per share 9.5p 9.2p Operating cash inflow 2,071 million 836 million Net cash debt 5 million 870 million Programmes business outlook improving Highlights benefiting from elimination of excessive risk new commercial agreement for Typhoon signed Customer Solutions & Support addressing UK growth opportunities Land sector position strengthened with acquisition of Alvis plc North America delivering good growth Airbus performing well outlook improving Strong cash flow 3 Adjusted earnings per share up 8.4% at 18.0p Record order book Final dividend increased, making 9.5p per share for the year An increase in contribution from the Programmes Overall, the performance of the company's defence Outlook business group is anticipated as it benefits from the businesses is expected to continue to improve in revised Typhoon contract.
In addition, continued good 2005 albeit at a lower rate of growth than that growth is expected from the company's North American achieved in 2004. operations including the benefit of full year contributions Commercial Aerospace is expected to contribute from acquisitions completed during the course of 2004. to growth with the benefit of a planned increase in Airbus aircraft deliveries.
The CS&S and Land Systems business is expected to achieve further growth in the UK support activities Some reversal of the strong 2004 operating cash together with a full year contribution from the inflow is anticipated in 2005 as customer prepayments acquisition of Alvis.
These performance improvements are utilised to fund rising production activity.
will be more than offset by the previously announced BAE Systems is now delivering well against its step down in profitability in export support activities.
Whilst there remains much The completion of the Eurosystems transaction will to do, the achievements to date, together with the actions remove the profit contribution from disposed continuously being taken to improve performance, enable activities.
The transaction is expected to be marginally the group to look forward with confidence to delivering dilutive to earnings in 2005. growing returns to its shareholders.
1including share of joint ventures order books 4 basic earnings per share after goodwill this outlook statement is based on the and after the elimination of intra-group amortisation and impairment and accounting standards used to prepare the orders of 1.8bn 2003 1.9bn exceptional items in accordance with 2004 accounts 2 including share of joint ventures sales Financial Reporting Standard 14 3 before goodwill amortisation and impairment of 1,038m 2003 518m and exceptional items of nil 2003 9m 2 Chairmans letter, Chief Executives review Chairmans letter Through the effective implementation of I am pleased to report that BAE Systems and maintaining security in a turbulent world.
this strategy we aim to continue to build on has made good progress in 2004.
The It is always important that the company aspires BAE Systems position as one of the worlds company maintained its focus on performance to high standards of corporate behaviour and premier aerospace and defence companies and improvement, addressed inappropriate risk responsibility.
deliver sustained returns to our shareholders.
in the business and made progress in I have taken over the chair from Sir Richard restructuring its joint venture portfolio in I and my fellow directors are committed to Evans under whose stewardship the company Europe.
At the same time, we have continued ensuring that BAE Systems has a robust has risen to be one of the worlds leading to grow our position in the US defence market.
governance framework and has the processes aerospace and defence businesses.
The Board Much progress has been made to deliver to provide the assurance to the Board and is grateful to Dick for his great contribution, over long-term shareholder value.
stakeholders that the company is operating in many years, to this company and the industry accordance with these prescribed values and Since succeeding Sir Richard Evans as in which we operate.
Chairman at the beginning of July, I have spent standards.
Lord Hesketh will be retiring from the Board at considerable time meeting the companys Governance is equally important to our this years AGM.
The Board has valued greatly management and visiting our businesses.
It relationship with the wider community in which the contribution he has made during his 11 is clear that BAE Systems is a company rich we operate.
In this report, together with our years as a director of the company.
in technology and with highly capable people.
separately published Corporate Responsibility The companys executive, together with the In accepting my appointment, I had to consider Report, we provide more information on our commitment and hard work of the wider the ways in which I could add value for social, environmental and ethical policies.
BAE Systems team, has delivered a good shareholders.
I believe my job as Chairman There has been much change in this area operational performance in 2004 establishing is to ensure that the Board operates effectively for all companies, both in how we report to a solid base for future growth.
In addition, the in three key areas: framing the strategy for the stakeholders and in the priority this is given.
measures taken to enhance the terms on which company: monitoring the performance of the Within BAE Systems we will ensure that this is we do business and mitigate risk going forward executive team as they implement that strategy: appropriately managed and reported, striving have underpinned the company's recovery.
and leading on governance matters by setting to be one of the leaders in this regard.
values and standards that are followed Accordingly, the Board has agreed recently to The Board is recommending an increased final throughout the company.
form a Corporate Responsibility Committee ordinary dividend of 5.8p per share, making a that will be responsible for reviewing and total of 9.5p for the year.
Subject to shareholder With the full involvement of executive and monitoring the processes the company uses approval at the 2005 AGM, the dividend will be non-executive directors, we used the annual to manage social, environmental and ethical paid on 1 June 2005 to holders of ordinary planning process as a framework to challenge risk to assist the Board in overseeing the shares registered on 22 April 2005. and refresh our strategy.
We describe this in development of strategy and policy in this area.
some detail later in this report but, in essence, It will be chaired by a non-executive director.
we will further strengthen the focus on improving corporate performance while building on the strong BAE Systems should be proud of its role in position now established in the United States.
helping to provide the means of establishing The companys executive, together with Dick Olver the commitment and hard work of the wider Chairman BAE Systems team, has delivered a good operational performance in 2004 establishing a solid base for future growth.
23 February 2005 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 3 Chief Executives review acquisitions to be completed in line with our the programme.
The company is a large BAE Systems performed well in 2004, both in strategy.
In the US, five acquisitions were employer of Saudi nationals and a leader in delivering good financial results and executing completed.
The largest transaction, DigitalNet, technology training in the Kingdom.
actions that will underpin performance elevates BAE Systems to rank as a top 10 improvement over the longer term.
Consistent with this in-Kingdom strategy provider of IT systems support to the US In particular, the signing of contracts for the BAE Systems has invested in aerospace and Department of Defense and other government next, Tranche 2, phase of the Eurofighter defence companies in Saudi Arabia that will agencies.
With these acquisitions BAE Systems Typhoon programme established a way forward enable the company to work in partnership generates annualised sales of some $5.6bn for the programme.
This completes the actions with Saudi investors whilst undertaking aircraft in its North America business and now employs taken over recent years to address excessive and avionics maintenance and upgrade over 27,000 people across the US.
risk in our UK Ministry of Defence MoD work in-Kingdom.
Whilst this trend to greater programmes businesses.
The company has continued to build on its indigenous content will reduce margins, these strong position in military support solutions.
partnerships will provide significant technology These actions will result in a sustainable growth The strategy to work in partnership with the UK and employment benefits to the Kingdom and in profitability in an area of our business that, in MoDs Defence Logistics Organisation continues long-term value for BAE Systems.
the past, had overshadowed the performance to bear fruit with a number of significant new of the majority of the companys portfolio.
BAE Systems has a leading naval systems business wins in supporting air platforms.
Like its UK air systems BAE Systems has for some time been pursuing a Building on the company's record in growing activities, the performance of the naval strategy to focus on its capabilities in aerospace support business in the air sector, BAE Systems business in recent times has been affected by and defence with an emphasis on accessing identified a substantial support opportunity in the the company having agreed, in prior years, to higher value opportunities in the integration land sector.
The acquisition of Alvis plc was a key contracts for programmes with excessive risk.
and networking of complex defence systems step in delivering a land sector support strategy.
and provision of support solutions to the armed In addition, over many years, the UK naval forces.
BAE Systems is alone amongst the Alvis significantly enhances the companys shipbuilding industry has suffered from a leaders in our industry in being able to pursue involvement in the land sector.
The merger lack of strategic planning and the company this strategy on both sides of the Atlantic.
of Alvis and BAE Systems complementary commenced an evaluation of the options for RO Defence activity into a new Land Systems its shipyards.
Whilst that evaluation was The companys strong position in both the US business enables the company to offer coherent underway the company welcomed the UK and UK markets presents future opportunities land sector support to the UKs armed forces government initiative to determine a strategy for industry to support the increasingly joint and the large installed base of fighting vehicles for naval shipbuilding in the UK, in dialogue nature of peacemaking and peacekeeping in service with customers worldwide.
BAE Systems by our armed forces.
Industrial participation, welcomes this dialogue as a real opportunity to including access to the highest level of Support solutions also lie at the heart of secure a future for the UKs naval shipbuilding technology on programmes in which both BAE Systems relationship with the Kingdom capabilities that will deliver value for money to nations participate, such as the Joint Strike of Saudi Arabia.
BAE Systems has a long and the UK government and an acceptable return Fighter programme, remains an important successful history providing integrated support to shareholders of the companies concerned.
to the Saudi armed forces.
The company has The company has benefited from good cash for some time adopted a strategy to integrate We have also made good progress in generation during the year enabling several progressively greater local Saudi content in re-focusing our joint businesses in Europe.
We look forward with confidence to Mike Turner delivering growing returns to our Chief Executive shareholders in the future.
23 February 2005 4 Chief Executives review continued, Summary financial review Chief Executives review continued Recognising the complexity of the earlier BAE Systems has a 20% interest in Airbus and The last few years have seen our business proposed Eurosystems transaction with the company maintains a close management turned around, with clear management targets Finmeccanica we have moved to a simpler involvement in the business through the set and consistently delivered.
The revised agreement, signed in shareholder board.
achieved in the US and our business with the January 2005, provides for BAE Systems to take UK MoD has been fide-risked to acceptable Airbus is a highly successful enterprise and full ownership of the UK activities of the former and manageable levels.
We look forward with BAE Systems is now seeing the benefit of its AMS joint venture in exchange for the companys confidence to delivering growing returns for investment and support over many years as the existing 50% of the Italian activities and a cash our shareholders in the future.
business fought to build a family of aircraft and equalisation payment.
We have also agreed secure a strong position in the large commercial to sell to Finmeccanica the groups defence jet market.
The A380 is the culmination of this communications business and avionics strategy.
The public presentation of this new activities comprising principally UK-based aircraft took place in January 2005 and the airborne radar and electronic warfare business.
programme is for first deliveries in 2006.
When completed, this transaction will generate At the heart of BAE Systems, and its joint substantial cash and improve management control ventures, lies a highly qualified and dedicated and business performance in the strategically workforce and I would like to thank them for important field of network-enabled capability.
their continued support and commitment.
Summarised profit and loss account Segmental analysis 1 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER Sales Profit loss before tax 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m m m 1 Sales 13,479 12,572 Programmes 2,867 2,436 64 56 2 Operating profit 691 670 Customer Solutions & Support 2,243 2,166 413 411 2 Share of operating profit of joint ventures 322 310 International Partnerships 1,907 1,685 109 65 2 Profit before interest 1,013 980 Avionics 1,103 1,127 32 12 Net interest 207 220 North America 2,771 2,700 233 232 Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation Commercial Aerospace 2,880 2,924 176 204 and impairment and exceptional items 806 760 HQ and other businesses 560 316 14 Goodwill amortisation and impairment, 14,331 13,354 1,013 980 including joint ventures 1,038 518 Less: intra-group 852 782 Exceptional items 9 Net interest 207 220 Loss profit before tax 232 233 13,479 12,572 806 760 Tax 234 225 Goodwill amortisation Minority interests 1 2 and impairment, Loss profit for the year 467 6 including joint ventures 1,038 518 Exceptional items 9 Basic and diluted loss per share 16.0 p 0.5 p 13,479 12,572 232 233 Basic and diluted earnings per share excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 18.0p 16.6p Dividend per share 9.5p 9.2p Exchange rates 2004 2003 average 1.474 1.445 1 including share of joint ventures sales $ average 1.832 1.635 2 before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 28 year end 1.417 1.417 $ year end 1.932 1.786 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 5 Summarised financial review 2 Profit before interest increased to 1,013m assets and liabilities at a point in time rather Cash flows 1 from 980m in 2003, on sales of 13,479m than matching expectations of assets and Group operating cash inflow was 2,071m 2003 12,572m.
Adjusted earnings per liabilities over time.
Net capital expenditure and 2 share for 2004 increased by 8.4% to 18.0p schemes calculated on an FRS 17 basis was financial investment was 256m 2003 compared with 2003.
248m, including increases in capital Investment returns were better than expected, expenditure together with the investment in These earnings were underpinned by strong but were offset by an increase in liabilities due aerospace and defence companies in Saudi cash generation with operating cash inflow to changes in mortality assumptions and a Arabia 2003 included the initial 74m totalling 2,071m 2003 836m.
reduction in real discount rates during 2004. investment in Alvis plc.
The weakening US dollar and Euro reduced 3 Full adoption of FRS 17 would have resulted Group operating business cash inflow was reported sales and profit on translation by in a charge to operating profit of 151m 1,884m compared with 625m in 2003.
2003 172m, a reduction of 41m 2003 Cash flow improvements were achieved at After deducting goodwill amortisation and Programmes as customer stage payments were additional charge of 45m when compared impairment and exceptional items, the loss received on the renegotiated Typhoon contract with the pension charge on a SSAP 24 basis.
per share was 16.0p compared with a loss per and in respect of the Indian Hawk contract.
CS&S Reserves would have been reduced by 3.3bn share of 0.5p in 2003.
This was primarily due cash flow benefited from the strong oil price 2003 2.4bn.
to an increased charge for goodwill impairment.
North America cash flow was also The FRS 17 assessment has no impact on strong.
Commercial Aerospace included Interest short-term cash contributions to the pension an outflow on the regional aircraft recourse The net interest charge decreased to 207m schemes.
The groups pension funding provision, almost entirely offset by another from 220m in 2003.
This reflected lower net requirements are derived from separate strong cash performance by Airbus despite interest payable on loans, overdrafts and financial independent actuarial valuations.
In order to product development and capital expenditure instruments of 110m 2003 122m due to help mitigate future pension cost increases, on the A380 programme.
Avionics cash outflows lower gross borrowings when compared with the company has introduced changes to its were mainly due to some increase in working 2003 and net present value adjustments on main UK and US pension schemes.
These capital on Typhoon equipment and cash outflows aircraft lease provisions of 28m 2003 41m changes include an agreement to increase on prior year rationalisation programmes.
and other net present value adjustments of 11m employees contributions to the main 2003 7m.
There was also a charge of 28m Free cash inflow, after interest and preference scheme in the UK and to establish employee 2003 24m relating to a net present value dividends and taxation, was 1,733m contributions for much of the US workforce.
adjustment to aircraft financing liabilities due to compared with 562m in 2003.
In addition, the company has made a changes in the expected timing of receipts and prepayment of $70m 38m to its US scheme.
Cash outflow on acquisitions was 550m payments.
Share of net interest of joint ventures comprising cash consideration of 663m less Accounting policy changes was 30m 2003 26m.
Interest was covered cash acquired, net of overdrafts, of 113m.
There have been no significant changes to 2 4.9 times by earnings 2003 4.5 times.
In addition, loans acquired were 80m.
the accounting policies adopted by the group.
Taxation The group has amended its treatment within Foreign currency translation movements in net The effective rate of tax was 29% 2003 30% shareholders funds of own shares held by debt of 57m primarily comprises the benefit which compares with the UK corporation tax the ESOP trust.
The value of such shares of translating US dollar denominated debt at rate of 30% for the calendar year 2004 2003 held by the group is now deducted from the closing rate of 1 $1.932.
30% and remains the planning rate for the distributable reserves.
Net cash was 5m 2003 net debt of 870m Transition to International Financial at the end of the year.
Dividend Reporting Standards The Board is recommending a final dividend FRS 17 The review of the impact of the change to of 5.8p per share 2003 5.5p, bringing the The group has continued to account for International Financial Reporting Standards total dividend for the year to 9.5p 2003 9.2p.
The current plans indicate that the Dividend cover, at this level of annual dividend, charge for the year on UK and US defined benefit group is well placed to comply with International 2 has increased to 1.9 times earnings from 1.8 schemes, excluding the groups share of Financial Reporting Standards in line with the 2 times earnings in 2003.
The dividend policy is pension costs charged by joint venture requirements.
to maintain the dividend in line with earnings companies, on a SSAP 24 basis was 192m with a long-term objective of dividend cover 2003 127m.
FRS 17 requires the group to above 2 times.
calculate its net pension liabilities by valuing 1 including share of joint ventures sales 2 before goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 28 3 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment and dividends from joint ventures 6 Strategy Strategy The BAE Systems strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic aerospace and defence company.
The transatlantic nature of the BAE Systems The US is the world's largest defence market Research and Technology is a key driver of future strategy reflects the company's established with equipment spend around twice that of the capability in the defence sector.
Importantly, the strong presence in the UK and other European UK and rest of Europe combined.
In the UK, US allocates a significantly higher proportion of defence markets combined with its significant significant opportunities are present to derive its defence spend on Research and Technology presence and the growth opportunities in the value from new platform programmes and, in than Europe.
particular, from the provision of through-life Sales into the US defence related markets in support solutions for both new and legacy 2004 accounted for in excess of 25% of group defence systems.
Defence spend US and Europe Defence spend allocation US and Europe Total defence spend approximately $652bn based on 2004 data US $bn based on 2004 data Research and Technology represents 1 United States 65% $423bn 400 approximately 15% $62bn of US 6 2 United Kingdom 9% 5 defence spend.
In Europe, Research 300 4 3France 7% and Technology represents some 3 6.5% $15bn of total spend.
$229bn 4 Germany 5% 200 2 1 Equipment procurement 5 Italy 4% 100 Research and Technology 6 Rest of Europe 10% Other defence European Economic Area 35% 0 US Europe The BAE Systems strategy is to build on its Embed a high performance culture Optimise value from our order book established positions in the aerospace and across the company defence market in the United States, whilst maximising the value of its position in the UK and Europe.
These markets continue to shape the companys capabilities and its products and Embed a high performance culture across Optimise value from our order book.
From this strong base, BAE Systems the company is at the top of our list to reflect our best practice controls, tools and processes will continue to export to, and work in, markets its importance.
The Performance Centred in a consistently efficient manner we will turn around the world where we can deliver Leadership framework ensures all our business orders, and then sales, into profitable returns appropriate shareholder returns.
leaders should know what high performance for our shareholders and secure our future.
means for them and their people.
Our recent In addition, we need to continue to improve While defence remains our core market, our commitment to invest in a Performance Centre productivity and reduce our cost base.
strong presence in the aerospace sector is a of Excellence builds on our suite of controls, major contributor to the value of the company.
tools and processes to support our delivery Delivery of our strategy will be achieved by way of operational excellence.
of five group strategic objectives.
These five objectives are being pursued through seven strands of business portfolio actions supported by the integrated business plans of our operations.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 7 Group Strategy To create sustainable shareholder value by being the premier transatlantic aerospace and defence company Group Strategic Objectives - Embed a high performance culture across the company - Optimise value from our order book - Maintain a global presence from a strong transatlantic business base - Enhance US UK industrial technology transfer - Proactively manage investment and divestment in businesses Business Portfolio Actions Grow the Grow a global Create a Partner Continue to Grow and Manage business in the support, solutions sustainably MoD in the optimise our maximise the non-strategic United States and services profitable UK transformation European value of Airbus businesses for business programme of the UKs position through optimal value business in armed forces a rationalised air, land and sea portfolio of joint ventures Integrated Business Plans Maintain a global presence from a strong Enhance US UK industrial Proactively manage investment and transatlantic business base technology transfer divestment in businesses Maintain a global presence from a strong Enhance US UK industrial technology Proactively manage investment and divestment transatlantic business base recognises the transfer is crucial for the delivery of greater in businesses.
In order to continue to focus on location of our most important markets.
inter-operability between the US and UK delivering value to our shareholders, each part Transatlantic remains at the core of our strategy armed forces, in both peacemaking and of our business and product portfolio needs to given our leading position in the UK Europe peacekeeping roles around the world, and be focused on where appropriate returns can and strong and growing presence in the United maintaining the highest level of technology and be achieved.
If this is not possible, then a route States.
These markets continue to shape our capability within the UK defence industrial base.
to exit or to minimise exposure will be found.
capabilities and our product and service portfolio.
From this strong base, we will continue to export to and work in markets around the world where we can deliver appropriate shareholder returns.
8 Programmes Typhoon Astute The Eurofighter Typhoon combat aircraft Astute is the next is the product of a collaborative programme generation nuclear involving the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy powered attack and Spain.
Typhoon entered service with submarine being the air forces of the four partner nations in developed for the 2004.
BAE Systems manufactures the fully UKs Royal Navy.
equipped forward fuselage sub-assemblies for all Typhoon aircraft and is responsible Nimrod MR4A for final assembly of the aircraft in the UK.
The Nimrod MR4A Typhoon will deliver unrivalled swing role is the replacement capability delivering a combination of both maritime patrol and highly advanced air-to-air capability with attack aircraft for the precision air-to-surface operation.
Programmes The Programmes business group operates primarily in the UK defence market and comprises the 7 company's principal air systems, naval systems and C4ISR - related prime contract activities.
In 2004, the Programmes business made a Air systems businesses avionics architecture and deliver two trials aircraft 3 2 profit of 64m 2003 56m on sales of The air forces of the four Eurofighter Typhoon to support the development and test flying.
2,867m 2003 2,436m and generated an partner nations, UK, Germany, Italy and Spain, Contracts for Hawk with Canada, South Africa 4 operating cash inflow of 505m 2003 33m.
completed the acceptance of their initial 30 twin and Bahrain are progressing to schedule.
seat standard aircraft with the 28 aircraft delivered The 2.2% return on sales for Programmes in 2004.
In-service training and operational There was good progress on Nimrod with the continues to reflect the substantial sales evaluations by the four nations have progressed first development aircraft, PA01, flying in the generating no profit contribution from the Nimrod significantly in the first year of Typhoon's service summer and progressing successfully through and Astute programmes.
Over 600 hours have been flown in the UK its flight test programme.
PA02, the first aircraft level of sales on Typhoon was recognised with and a significant number of air and ground crew fitted with a full mission system, achieved its no profit.
Increased Type 45 destroyer sales were trained.
The delivery, in December 2004, of first flight in December 2004.
Programme recognised at zero margin, with the programme the first single seat aircraft for operational reforms continue to reinforce stability in the at an early stage of maturity.
use marks the next planned step in Typhoon programme on both cost and schedule.
Positive contributions to profit were made by capability.
This capability growth will continue Confirmation of future Nimrod production is Underwater Systems and sustaining engineering incrementally through the life of the programme.
awaited following the UK governments activity on Tornado and Harrier in the UK and export announcement in the summer of a requirement Contracts to secure Tranche 2, comprising the markets.
The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF, a cost for some 12 aircraft for the maritime role, next 236 aircraft for the four nations, were plus award fee systems design and development subject to affordability and performance.
The conclusion contract, also made a positive contribution.
of agreements for Tranche 2 has, in the UK, BAE Systems is partnered with Lockheed Martin The outlook at Programmes is for increased sales led to a revision to the Tranche 1 contracts to and Northrop Grumman on the JSF programme.
in 2005 as deliveries on the Typhoon programme address production continuity.
In addition to substantial avionics sub-systems increase, together with increases on Hawk, Nimrod and equipment involvement in North America, Significant progress has been made during and Type 45.
Overall, Programmes profit will show BAE Systems participation in the programme 2004 in securing the future of the highly further improvement in 2005 from sales growth involves the design and manufacture of the successful Hawk business.
and margin enhancement as benefit flows from rear fuselage and stabilisers in the UK.
In April, the government of India placed an order In August 2004, a key milestone was reached for 66 Hawk aircraft and, in December, the UK The UK defence equipment budget is expected to with the start of the JSF production process MoD signed a design and development contract continue to be constrained, with low real growth comprising assembly of the rear fuselage.
for a new variant of the Hawk, the Advanced Jet having implications for the sustainability of longTrainer AJT.
The customer is working closely term funding for future defence technologies and Work has progressed on the JSF System with BAE Systems to manage the design of the engineering capability in the UK.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 9 Type 45 Joint Strike Fighter Type 45 is the Royal Navys new BAE Systems is a partner in the anti-air warfare destroyer.
Design US led F-35 Joint Strike Fighter of the ship is well advanced and programme with responsibility construction of the first of class, for design and manufacture of HMS Daring, is underway at the rear fuselage and tail the groups Clydeside facilities surfaces as well as a number in Scotland.
Programmes : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 14.3bn 11.3bn 2 Sales 2.9bn 2.4bn 20% 3 Profit 64m 56m 4 Cash inflow 505m 33m 5 Number of employees 18,400 19,400 The primary focus has been the detailed Work on the Astute attack submarine has US Navy, is successfully progressing through engineering design effort across the JSF variants, progressed well during 2004 with all key development and will commence formal test in preparation for the increase in manufacturing milestones achieved on schedule.
and evaluation in 2005. activity in 2005.
First flight of the Conventional An accelerated programme resulted in the C4ISR Take-off and Landing variant is planned for delivery of HMS Bulwark, the second Landing The C4ISR business has a key role in developing late 2006.
Platform Dock, ahead of the revised programme and delivering the UKs network-enabled Successful Harrier GR9 carrier landings took schedule.
The ship successfully completed its capability.
BAE Systems is working towards place to schedule as part of a major Harrier trials after leaving Barrow in May 2004 and was establishing a central role with the MoD in upgrade programme.
Contracts received include handed over to the Royal Navy in July 2004.
The creating and developing the MoDs overall the continuation of the Harrier GR9 sustainment early delivery enabled the Royal Navy to bring systems architecture.
and upgrade programme, the support of Tornado forward the in-service date by one month to Secondary Power Systems and the Tornado December 2004.
Following the completion of HMS Bulwark a redundancy programme commenced, which Naval systems businesses resulted in the loss of some 500 positions BAE Systems is building two 16,160 tonne across the Submarines business.
Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary vessels.
The first vessel, RFA Mounts Bay, was launched in April The tactical weapons systems update 2004 and the second vessel, RFA Cardigan Bay, programme for the Trafalgar class submarines is on schedule to be launched in April 2005. remains on schedule.
Good progress has been made on the first of Underwater Systems had another good year, the Type 45 class next generation destroyer achieving all programmed deliveries.
The 1including share of joint ventures order books and before for the Royal Navy, HMS Daring.
Major power the elimination of intra-group orders development of the Sting Ray Mod 1 lightweight and propulsion equipment has been installed 2including share of joint ventures sales torpedo was completed and the UK production in the engine compartments.
The official steel 3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and order commenced with the successful exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 28 cutting ceremony for the second vessel, demonstration of the first build torpedoes.
4 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after HMS Dauntless, took place in August 2004. capital expenditure net and financial investment and The Spearfish heavyweight torpedo in-service dividends from joint ventures A successful programme to design and support programme completed 10 years 5includes share of joint venture employees build three sophisticated Brunei Offshore of on-time deliveries to the Royal Navys 6 before elimination of intra-group sales Patrol Vessels has been followed by submarine fleet.
The new Archerfish airborne 7 Command, Control, Communication and Computing, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance acceptance delays.
mine neutralisation system, ordered for the 10 Customer Solutions & Support Al Yamamah Bahrain air training Under the long running Al Yamamah contract, programme BAE Systems is providing a complete defence Integrated solutions package to Saudi Arabia.
BAE Systems plays are key in the a key role in training Saudi nationals to maintain Bahrain air training the equipment supplied under the contract.
Type 22 frigate BAE Systems is prime contractor for reactivation of the frigates for use by the Romanian Navy.
Customer Solutions & Support The Customer Solutions & Support business group provides systems and solutions for current and future military capability.
It addresses the trend within armed forces to work more closely with industry to optimise their military capability in the most cost-effective and efficient manner.
In 2004, the CS&S business group made a BAE Systems has a major presence in the The reactivation and upgrade of two Type 22 3 2 profit of 413m 2003 411m on sales Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as prime contractor frigates for Romania has progressed well of 2,243m 2003 2,166m.
The business for the UK  defence with the first ship accepted on schedule in 4 generated an operating cash inflow of agreement, Al Yamamah.
The business September and the second ship due to be delivered in the first half of 2005.
employs almost 4,700 people, of whom more Upholder class submarine to be reactivated than half are Saudi nationals, in support of the for the Canadian Navy was handed over in the CS&S continued to perform well and delivered Saudi Royal Air Force and the Royal Saudi Navy.
last quarter of 2004. on all its key targets in 2004.
The benefit to the BAE Systems provides complete support to Al Yamamah programme of the high oil price has the Kingdoms ground defence infrastructure BAE Systems has 50% interests in Fleet flowed through to operating cash flow, reducing and naval minehunters.
Support Limited and Flagship Training Limited.
These support and services joint ventures Performance on the Al Yamamah programme in continue to form an integral part of the CS&S Saudi Arabia was good, with cash flows benefiting In August, the groups offer to acquire Alvis plc strategy and both returned strong results in from the strong oil price throughout 2004. was declared unconditional.
The performance of Flagship Training, RO Defence businesses have been integrated UK support activity is increasing as the which manages the Royal Navy training to create a new Land Systems business.
The partnering relationship with the MoDs Defence establishments and markets their training formation of this business is consistent with Logistics Organisation DLO develops.
courses to overseas customers was particularly the groups land sector strategy.
The results, in Performance in support of key UK in-service air encouraging.
Contracts won this year included 2004, of the RO Defence and Alvis businesses platforms, Tornado, Harrier, Nimrod and VC10 the training of the Romanian frigate crew.
Fleet are reported within HQ and other businesses.
At RAF Wyton the DLO and Support continued to perform well, underpinned From January 2005 the results of these CS&S have set up a joint integrated project team by the partnering agreement at the UKs businesses will be reported within a Customer to address the next phase of partnering on the Portsmouth naval base which was signed Solutions & Support and Land Systems sector.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 11 11 11 11 VC10 spares inclusive maintenance contract In partnership with the UK MoDs Defence Logistics Organisation, BAE Systems has assumed responsibility for through-life support of the Royal Air Forces VC10 air-to-air refuelling tankers.
In 2004, the Javelin team, comprising MoD and BAE Systems, were winners of the MoD Smart Procurement Award.
Harrier BAE Systems supports key UK in-service air platforms.
Customer Solutions & Support : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 2.9bn 2.6bn 2 Sales 2.2bn 2.2bn 16% 3 Profit 413m 411m 4 Cash inflow 1,001m 518m 5 Number of employees 10,700 10,800 bases.
Tornado support will be the major driver programme, including greater in-Kingdom repair CS&S has also made further progress in of activity during 2005 and should also provide and overhaul work, is expected to bring forward developing a coherent information and logistics the blueprint of future support arrangements for that margin reduction with a step down in 2005, infrastructure in support of both in-service and Typhoon and JSF.
resulting in a lower CS&S business group new systems and platforms.
Al Yamamah support margins submitted in December 2004 to the UK MoD In bringing together Alvis and RO Defence to are expected to stabilise from 2005. under the Future Defence Supply Chain initiative form a Land Systems business, the combined for the planning and operation of a fully capabilities are able to provide customers with integrated supply chain network.
efficient solutions and to create opportunities In August 2004, CS&S agreed the purchase for increased systems content.
The business of the remaining 50% interest in AeroSystems will reflect the strong drive towards integrated International AeI not already owned by the through-life support of the large number of group for 15m.
AeI is a leading company in in-service vehicles and platforms within the the analysis, design, development and delivery UK and export markets.
of complex, software intensive systems for the BAE Systems has for some time signalled a aerospace and defence sectors and is part of the 1including share of joint ventures order books and before progressive reduction in margin for CS&S.
This development of the groups air support capability.
the elimination of intra-group orders anticipated margin reduction is a consequence 2including share of joint ventures sales Looking forward, the CS&S business group will of both a larger volume of lower margin UK MoD 3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and work to sustain a long-term presence in Saudi support activity and a reduction in margin within exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 28 4 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after capital Arabia, deliver to schedule on the current its Al Yamamah support operations in Saudi expenditure net and financial investment and dividends from support contracts, and expand the relationship Arabia as the programme embraces greater joint ventures with the DLO as the group provides more local content in-Kingdom.
The increased pace 5includes share of joint venture employees integrated support programmes on customer of indigenous Saudi content in the Al Yamamah 6 before elimination of intra-group sales 12 12 International Partnerships, Avionics International Partnerships MBDA designs and builds a wide range of missiles for numerous platforms around the world.
AMS designs, manufactures and supplies command and control management systems, radar sensors, simulation and training systems.
Saab is focused on the design and manufacture of integrated defence systems.
Gripen International is a joint venture with Saab to market the Gripen combat aircraft.
Atlas Elektronik produces complete underwater sensor to shooter systems.
International Partnerships : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 6.5bn 6.8bn 2 Sales 1.9bn 1.7bn 13% 3 Profit 109m 65m 4 Cash inflow 48m 69m 5 Number of employees 13,200 13,600 The International Partnerships business group meeting all of its key development milestones In recognition of the changes to the Gripen joint comprises interests, at 31 December 2004, in the year.
Important orders for MBDA during venture agreement BAE Systems will reduce its in the following: the year included Exocet Block 3, a significant shareholding in Saab AB over time.
BAE Systems aircraft package for Greece, plus the PAAMS will retain at least a 20% shareholding.
AMS 50% Atlas Elektronik completed its first full year as Saab 34.2% Profitability of the AMS joint venture has a BAE Systems wholly owned business.
During Gripen International 50% continued to improve.
Order intake has included 2004, Atlas completed the acquisition of the Atlas Elektronik 100% the Network Enabled Combat System for the Danish Maridan autonomous underwater United Arab Emirates and an extension to a vehicles business.
2004 has been a successful year for Private Finance Initiative contract for Astute International Partnerships with an operating In January 2005, BAE Systems and Finmeccanica training services in the UK.
Sales grew by signed the Eurosystems agreement.
In sterling terms sales and Saabs operating profit in 2004 improved on Eurosystems transaction will bring the UK part profits were reduced by the translation effect of a 2003, after having recognised the cost of of AMS into 100% BAE Systems ownership in weakening Euro by 37m and 2m respectively.
exchange for the groups 50% share of the 4 The business group generated cash flow of Italian business currently under joint control, Gripen International is now well established in 48m 2003 69m.
These results have been and a cash equalisation payment.
the export market, with orders from the Czech achieved with a number of key programmes Republic, South Africa and Hungary for a current Looking to 2005, sales are expected to remain moving out of development into full production.
The joint investment to broadly flat across International Partnerships Another solid year of delivery and growth in develop the export baseline standard for the as a whole with margins slightly reduced owing 2004 has seen MBDAs sales increase by more Gripen combat aircraft is nearing completion, to the recently announced rationalisation than 20% with good operating profits growth.
and the first delivery to the Czech Republic is programme in AMS.
This strong performance was driven during the scheduled for May 2005.
Production for year by significant deliveries of Storm Shadow deliveries to South Africa and Hungary is and Scalp EG to the RAF and French Air Force, underway.
During 2004, it was agreed that respectively: significant deliveries of Mica and Saab will, from 1 January 2005, assume Exocet to export customers: and continued responsibility for marketing new Gripen export deliveries of ASRAAM to the RAF.
Saab and BAE Systems will continue entered service with the Royal Australian Air to have joint responsibility for any Gripen Force during 2004.
Solid development progress activity in the three established export markets on the Aster-PAAMS and Meteor programmes and may co-operate on future Gripen exports also contributed to MBDAs growth, with Meteor when appropriate.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 13 13 Displays DASS BAE Systems is a BAE Systems leader in displays supplies significant technology including sub-systems and sophisticated equipment to the head-up and Typhoon programme helmet-mounted including the Defensive display systems.
Avionics The Avionics business group designs and develops electronic systems for air, naval and land defence platforms.
The businesses within this reporting sector comprise five areas of activity: sensor systems: electronic warfare: inertial systems: avionic systems: and communications.
Avionics : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 2.5bn 2.3bn 2 Sales 1.1bn 1.1bn 8% 3 Profit 32m 12m 4 Cash outflow 16 m 28 m 5 Number of employees 8,900 9,400 In 2004, the Avionics business group made The delivery of the 500th infra-red countermeasure The Australian business has continued to drive 3 its strategy to place itself as the Australian an operating profit of 32m 2003 12m system in partnership with Northrop Grumman 2 Defence Forces capability partner in integrated on sales of 1,103m 2003 1,127m.
The in the autumn showed the significant position that 4 military systems and support solutions.
business had an operating cash outflow of the partnership has in this technological area.
Other notable achievements in the electro-optical The completion of the Eurosystems transaction will sector included: the award of the contract for the result in the major part of the Avionics group radar, Avionics group results in 2004 improved surveillance, targeting and weapon system for the electro optics, defensive aids and communications compared with 2003.
Equipment deliveries on Future Combat and Liaison Vehicle: demonstrations coming under Finmeccanica management control Typhoon increased and the business benefited in both the UK and US of laser-based burst with a 25% retained BAE Systems interest.
from completion of the rationalisation illumination technology: and continuing BAE Systems retained activities in this sector will programme announced in 2003. successful development of the laser systems be managed through the North America Platform Avionics is a major supplier of systems on for the JSF electro-optical targeting system.
The North America business the Typhoon programme.
These include two is primarily associated with military aircraft flight The development of a new electronically principal sub-systems, the Captor multi-mode control and navigation systems, and head-up and scanned radar resulted in successful trials radar and the Defensive Aids Sub-System helmet-mounted displays.
The Australian business of the new E7000 radar for helicopters and DASS.
Deliveries of Captor radar systems will also be retained and managed through the border protection.
Battlefield systems activities continued to be in line with the programme, existing CS&S structure.
included international trials of the HALO artillery with the 100th radar system for Typhoon being The Eurosystems transaction will see businesses location system.
A contract to support the delivered in the year.
The build-up of DASS 2 3 that contributed sales of 718m and profit of Northrop Grumman Communications, equipment deliveries, while slower than planned, 33m in 2004 sold to Finmeccanica.
The outlook Navigation and Identification suite for the reached targeted throughput rates by year end.
for the retained business is for a good recovery in F-35 JSF was also received.
2005 as rationalisation activities announced in Investment in the business continued with the 2003 were concluded.
Orders for the electronic warfare suite for the opening of a major new facility for the electronic Boeing Apache helicopter for both Kuwait and warfare business in the UK.
Investment in 1including share of joint ventures order books and before Greece reinforces the groups position as a infrastructure in previous years contributed the elimination of intra-group orders leading electronic warfare export supplier.
to the award of a number of prizes for 2 including share of joint ventures sales These successes emphasise the importance of manufacturing excellence.
Furthermore, the 3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and helicopter crew self-protection systems and the benefits of investment in the technology base exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 28 4 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after key role of Avionics in this area.
Also in electronic of the business and its position as a leading capital expenditure net and financial investment and warfare, the full UK acceptance of the Siren offEuropean sensor and integrated system dividends from joint ventures board ship decoy system was achieved and further business were confirmed by a number of 5includes share of joint venture employees deliveries have been made to the UK MoD.
successes across the technology portfolio.
6 before elimination of intra-group sales 14 North America F-35 Joint Strike Fighter The F-35 Joint Strike Fighter JSF is the USs next generation, multi-role stealth fighter aircraft.
It utilises BAE Systems state-of-the-art manufacturing techniques, and communications, flight control and electronic warfare technologies.
North America North America : Summary 2004 2003 Figures in underlying US dollars 2004 2003 1 1 Order book 2.5bn 2.4bn Order book $4.9bn $4.2bn Sales 2.8bn 2.7bn Sales $5.1bn $4.4bn 2 2 Profit 233m 232m Profit $427m $379m 3 3 Cash inflow 204m 162m Cash inflow $374m $264m Number of employees 27,400 23,150 In 2004, the North America business group BAE Systems presently ranks among the top 10 The order book increased to $4.9bn, resulting 2 made an operating profit of 233m 2003 suppliers to the US military.
In 2004, in excess from successful re-competes, new contract wins 232m on sales of 2,771m 2003 of 25% of BAE Systems group defence related and acquisitions, providing a good foundation 2,700m.
The business had an operating sales were in the US.
for future organic sales growth.
The BAE Systems North America business Strategic growth group has strengthened its core leadership The US is an attractive marketplace for In addition to good organic sales growth in positions in electronic warfare and electronic BAE Systems.
The US defence market has grown the year, the North America business group protection, military communications, significantly in recent years.
The combination of acquired five businesses with annualised battlespace management, imagery exploitation, the high priority afforded to US national security, sales for 2004 of some $700m.
intelligence systems and digital engine and a strong commitment to research and flight control systems throughout 2004 through development and contracting terms that balance STI Government Systems was acquired on acquisitions and organic growth.
risk and reward provide a healthy environment 10 May for $26m.
The business is a good for the defence industry.
US defence expenditure The business group met or exceeded all strategic fit with the groups core competencies is expected to continue at the current high level, financial and business targets for 2004, in advanced hyperspectral imaging and sensor but with some substitution of spend, to fund maintaining its good performance track record.
the global war on terror and peacekeeping The business produced organic sales growth Boeing Commercial Electronics was acquired on operations, impacting projected defence of 12% with 8.4% return on sales.
The business represents the equipment outlays.
Despite some curtailment terms, sales and profits were reduced by the addition of highly complementary skills and capacity of expectations for equipment procurement, translation effect of the weakening dollar by to the existing commercial aerospace electronic BAE Systems participates in sectors of the 334m and 25m respectively.
defence market such as homeland security equipment business.
This acquisition also and support for the intelligence community.
The business continued to achieve good enhances the groups relationship with Boeing and These activities are expected to continue to conversion of operating profits to operating its capability as a developer and producer of avionic present good growth opportunities.
products and systems for commercial aircraft.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 15 Avionics and electronics BAE Systems is a primary provider of fly-by-wire flight controls and subsystems for display processing, navigation and other critical functions to the C-17 Globemaster III aircraft.
Littoral Combat Ship BAE Systems has been selected to fulfil a critical role in the final design of the US Navys Littoral Combat Ship.
BAE Systems North America is a leading national security, aerospace and information systems business and a leading provider of electronic and information-based systems and knowledgebased solutions.
4 Percentage share of group sales 19% Practical Imagineering was acquired on These five strategically important acquisitions This new organisation will better align the 17 August for $9m, adding significant enabled the group to achieve its strategy of services business to develop innovative capabilities in the design and build of custom expanding its core competencies in electronic solutions and meet customers increasingly digital signal processing algorithms, software systems, information technology and services complex requirements.
Transformational technologies and solutions DigitalNetwas acquired on 25 October for $520m.
BAE Systems is one of the USs leading providers The business continues to grow its leadership DigitalNet is a leading provider of networked of communications and network centric systems position in C4ISR capabilities and defence infrastructure and information assurance supporting the transformational programmes electronics systems.
BAE Systems is solutions to US government agencies and the and technologies identified as priorities in the developing the integrated air and ground national intelligence community, one of the fastest US defence and security market.
The lines of communications suite for the US Armys growing segments of the federal information business across BAE Systems North America largest acquisition programme, the Future technology market.
The combination of DigitalNet are focused on horizontal integration to provide Combat System FCS.
with the groups previously established business multi-discipline solutions and to continue to operating in the same market, creates the operate as a high-performance enterprise.
necessary critical mass to target and win BAE Systems North America is also business on prime federal information transforming its services business to meet technology and assurance programmes.
the dynamic mission requirements of its Alphatech was acquired on 5 November for customers, as they respond to new and $88m.
The company specialises in image and evolving threats and challenges on a global signal processing, multi-intelligence fusion scale.
The services activities now comprise 1 before the elimination of intra-group orders and intelligent systems.
The acquisition 2 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment and a logistics Solutions Center of Excellence makes a significant contribution to the groups exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 28 SCE, a systems engineering and technical capabilities to address the network centric 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital assistance SCE, a sub-systems integration warfare requirements of the national security expenditure net and financial investment SCE, and an operations and maintenance SCE.
4 before elimination of intra-group sales and intelligence communities.
16 North America continued US Department of Homeland Security BAE Systems has been awarded a contract by the US Department of Homeland Security to develop a solution to counter the threat of missile attack against commercial airlines.
C4ISR The BAE Systems North America business continues to grow and invest in C4ISR capabilities & defence electronic systems.
North America continued Participation in transformational The provision of technical services UH-60, CH-47 and various Special Operations communications programmes such as FCS BAE Systems is one of the largest suppliers helicopters.
CMWS is in production for the UK is positioning BAE Systems as a key provider of technical services and solutions to the Apache, ASTOR and maritime patrol aircraft: of situational awareness and situational US government.
The Naval Sea Systemsthe groups work on the JSF programme understanding to the warfighter.
As a FCS One Command awarded BAE Systems follow-on resulted in a number of Best in Class award Team partner, BAE Systems is designing and contracts for Program Executive Office fees, culminating in early delivery of the producing the complementary communications integrated warfare systems.
These wins were mission-critical electronic warfare suite for systems that comprise the Network key awards in which BAE Systems won all five the JSF and the Outstanding Contractor Communications System, including Warfighter of its competitive bids in the services market.
Award on the programme: Information Network-Tactical WIN-T and Joint Major contracts were also won to provide Tactical Radio System JTRS Clusters 1 and 5. continued support services to the Federal - BAE Systems extended its successful Aviation Administration on surveillance partnership with General Dynamics on the BAE Systems is contributing to major C4ISR systems programmes.
WIN-T programme and on the Littoral Combat programmes being undertaken by the US Ship study: Development and delivery of electronic Department of Defense DoD by offering: and information systems transformational communications, together with - the group successfully demonstrated the A core strength of BAE Systems is integrating advanced technologies developed in precision capabilities of the WolfPack unattended intelligent electronic systems with information and time-critical targeting: geospatial imagery ground sensors programme.
This will lead technology systems, and providing enterpriseprocessing: battlespace management, to additional development and fielding of the wide and networked systems, particularly in the command and control: and information and system to support US Army commanders area of battlespace management and C4ISR.
real-time battlefield intelligence needs from Recent contract performance underpins future safe distances: Support for the Department of growth in this market: Homeland Security - the key US Air Force Autonomous Approach - the group won the US Army five-year, Indefinite BAE Systems North America was selected Landing Capability contract was won.
This Delivery Indefinite Quantity award for the to continue into Phase 2 of the Department strategically positions BAE Systems on a immediate delivery of Advanced Threat of Homeland Securitys development of programme to give fixed and rotary wing Infrared Countermeasures System Common technologies to protect commercial airliners air crews the ability to land, taxi and take-off Missile Warning System ATIRCM CMWS.
from the threat of man-portable anti-aircraft in zero visibility conditions safely: The system provides next-generation, missile systems.
directable, laser and lamp based - BAE Systems was named a prime contractor The group is also a member of the winning countermeasures for the protection of aircraft under the unique Advanced Technology Federal Emergency Management Agency FEMA against heat-seeking missiles.
ATIRCM is Support Program III ATSP3 contracting multi-hazard map modernisation contract team.
planned for installation on US Army AH-64D, programme.
Under ATSP3, the DoD has BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 17 Satellite Mars Rovers An artists conception of NASAs CassiniSpirit and Opportunity Huygens spacecraft and Saturn.
BAE Systems continue to gather contributed the satellites seven radiationscientific data hardened microprocessors RAD6000 with the help of for the mission.
streamlined the procurement process with BAE Systems-built, radiation-hardened Fundamental to the business is the to receive the full capability of the group protected computer systems performing application of superior technologies that are to resolve technologically complex vital data functions.
The international essential to mission success and the safety problems and keep the warfighter Cassini-Huygens spacecraft reached of the armed forces.
operational by upgrading fielded systems Saturn after seven years and 2.2 billion The 2004 order wins and acquisitions underpin quickly and efficiently: miles of travel with seven BAE Systems future growth.
Margins are anticipated to remain Advanced Spaceborne Computer Module - the group has secured new contracts for close to 2004 levels.
avionics and flight control components on In addition, BAE Systems RAD6000 the USAF C-17, building on its selection as computers have provided critical mission Sikorskys preferred supplier of fly-by-wire manoeuvring capabilities onboard flight controls and sub-systems for the NASAs Swift Mission.
S-92 H-92 helicopters: Building for the future - BAE Systems spans the spectrum from With its 2004 acquisitions, BAE Systems acoustic through optical frequencies to North America is poised to capitalise on the provide ground-based, submarine, surface US defence industry trend toward awarding ship, airborne, and space applications large, complex contracts.
Anticipated future for such information dominance programmes acquisitions will further the groups strategy as Compass Call, Co-operative to acquire profitable, growing businesses OUTBOARD Logistics Update, and with strong, differentiated technologies that Adaptive Joint C4ISR Node: complement the groups broad range of - follow-on contracts were signed including capabilities to provide integrated systems Turkish F-16 Self Protection Electronic and transformational solutions to customers.
Warfare System orders, reinforcing Looking ahead, BAE Systems North America BAE Systems as a leader in providing is well positioned to compete in an increasingly the worlds foremost electronic warfare competitive environment.
The business group protection systems to both new and has identified the strategic capabilities that legacy military aircraft: and must be developed, and the strategic actions - in space, the company's capabilities were that will lead to the attainment of these demonstrated by the National Aeronautics capabilities.
BAE Systems North America and Space Administrations NASA strives to generate customer loyalty through successful landing of two Mars Rovers performance and best value solutions.
18 Commercial Aerospace, HQ and other businesses Airbus BAE Systems has a 20% interest in Airbus in partnership with EADS.
With the development of the new 550 seat A380 doubledeck airliner well advanced, Airbus now offers a family of aircraft spanning the entire large commercial jet market.
Commercial Aerospace The Commercial Aerospace business group principally comprises BAE Systems 20% interest in Airbus.
Other activities include subcontract manufacture of aerostructures components and assemblies, and the regional aircraft asset management business and associated support activities.
Commercial Aerospace : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 20.9bn 21.4bn 2 Sales 2.9bn 2.9bn 20% 3 Profit 176m 204m 4 Cash outflow 24 m 143 m 5 Number of employees 12,600 12,150 The Commercial Aerospace business group Driven by increasing demand from the low cost The commercial aerospace market is emerging 3 made an operating profit of 176m 2003 carrier sector, Airbus secured net new orders from a period of prolonged weakness.
for a further 366 commercial aircraft, which credit capacity of many of the worlds airlines 3 Airbus contributed a profit of 196m 2003 represents a 57% market share of orders remains poor, traffic demand has begun to 2 211m on sales of 2,666m 2003 placed during 2004.
Airbus has secured a rising share of 2,683m.
This was after charging 256m were received from previous Airbus customers this improving market and higher production of development costs 2003 252m, of including China Southern Airlines, China volumes are now planned.
which 158m 2003 150m related to the Eastern Airlines, Jetblue Airways and THY as Commercial aircraft are primarily priced in US A380 programme.
In sterling, Airbus sales well as attracting new customers including dollars.
Airbus sources much of its bought-in and profit were adversely impacted from the Air Berlin, Etihad Airways and Spirit Airlines.
equipment in US dollars and also has a translation effect of a weakening Euro by During December 2004 shareholder approval substantial cost reduction programme underway.
was granted for Airbus to offer the A350 aircraft Airbus deliveries for 2005 are expected to be 4 The operating cash outflow of 24m 2003 which will target the large 220-300 seat market.
some 10% higher than in 2004, albeit with a outflow of 143m includes 278m outflow in weaker mix.
Airbus delivered 320 commercial aircraft during Regional Aircraft, mainly relating to prior year 2004 compared with 305 last year.
BAE Systems Aerostructures provision utilisation, offset by a strong cash inflow 20% share of the Airbus closing order book at The Aerostructures business returned of 251m in Airbus.
The performance at Airbus 31 December 2004 is over 20bn.
to profitability in 2004, with an operating reflects a lower than anticipated impact from manufacturers sales finance for airline customers.
The A380 marketing and development programme profit of 6m on sales of 192m.
The A380 is progressing with first flight planned for 2005 inboard leading edge programme has Airbus and entry into service in 2006.
The firm order successfully transitioned from development Airbus continues to build upon the strong book at December 2004 stood at 139 aircraft.
performance of 2003 despite a number of Regional Aircraft challenges in the current commercial aircraft The A400M military transport aircraft market and against a backdrop of rising fuel development programme, whilst in its early BAE Systems continues to provide customer prices and adverse US dollar exchange rates.
stages, is continuing to plan.
support and services in respect of regional aircraft.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 19 CV90 armoured infantry M777 lightweight 155mm fighting vehicle field howitzer Developed to meet international Designed and developed for demand: Sweden, Norway, the US Marines and US Army, Switzerland, Finland and the providing enhanced mobility, Netherlands have all selected survivability and mission the CV90.
HQ and other businesses HQ and other businesses comprises the groups head office functions together with the Land Systems business formed by the combination of RO Defence and Alvis in 2004.
In addition, HQ and other businesses includes the contract management for the assessment phase work on the UK Future Carrier and property services.
HQ and other businesses : Summary 6 Percentage share of group sales 2004 2003 1 Order book 2.3bn 1.1bn 2 Sales 0.6bn 0.3bn 4% 3 Loss profit 14 m 4 Cash inflow 166m 14m 5 Number of employees 6,300 4,000 3 The regional aircraft market remains difficult.
HQ and other businesses made a loss of secured a 749m order from the Netherlands 2 The 2004 results include a loss of 26m on 14m in 2004 2003 break-even on sales for 184 CV90 armoured vehicles.
The down this activity as a small additional provision of 560m 2003 316m.
The business payment from this contract contributed to a 4 was made against aircraft residual values group generated an operating cash inflow 132m net cash balance at 31 December and as spares and support volume fell on of 166m 2003 14m.
lower utilisation across the aircraft fleet, Land Systems Future Carrier a trend expected to continue.
Within the new Land Systems business, the In July 2004, the MoD announced that 2004 was the peak year for cash outflows former RO Defence business has delivered BAE Systems, Thales UK and the Defence on the recourse fleet.
The cash outflow on year-on-year sales growth with good progress Procurement Agency had jointly agreed Regional Aircraft recourse in 2005 will amount continuing on its two largest programmes.
Low alliancing principles for the aircraft carrier to 170m.
There will be further reductions rate initial production of the M777 lightweight programme.
At the same time, it was decided to recourse cash outflows in both 2006 155mm field howitzer programme for the US to extend the assessment phase of the and 2007.
Marine Corp has begun with delivery of first programme.
This extension, currently until production units.
Terrier, the UKs next March 2005, enables the alliance to fide-risk generation air-transportable armoured combat further the programme ahead of proceeding engineering vehicle, is progressing to a to full-scale development.
The programme prototype vehicle in the first quarter of 2005. has remained fully funded throughout 2004.
1 including share of joint ventures order books and before Margins in the munitions area were lower the elimination of intra-group orders The alliance partners have recently agreed to against 2003 levels.
2 including share of joint ventures sales broaden the alliance with two new members, 3 before interest, goodwill amortisation and impairment The acquisition of Alvis plc was declared Kellogg, Brown and Root KBR, a subsidiary and exceptional items statutory presentation is shown on page 28 unconditional in August 2004.
The business of the US Halliburton Group, and a shipbuilding 2 3 4 net cash inflow outflow from operating activities after contributed 167m sales and 7m profit entity.
The shipbuilding entity will be capital expenditure net and financial investment and since acquisition and has been integrated established by BAE Systems and KBR and dividends from joint ventures with RO Defence, forming a new Land Systems will be responsible for the detailed design, 5 includes share of joint venture employees 6 before elimination of intra-group sales business.
The Hagglunds unit subsequently manufacture and integration of the ships.
20 20 Summarised corporate responsibility, Board of directors Summarised corporate responsibility The information below is a summary of our principles and corporate responsibility activities during 2004 and key highlights from the last year.
For the first time the full Corporate Responsibility Report has been formally reviewed by the BAE Systems Board and is available to all stakeholders.
BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities to bribery or other attempts to influence improperly Training and development the wider community and for the environment.
the decisions of customers and suppliers.
BAE Systems invests in the training and We are determined to be regarded as a development of its people from apprentice Engaging with stakeholders well-managed, responsible company.
As a school leavers through graduates to our most We encourage dialogue and open communications global aerospace and defence business, our experienced functional professionals and with all our stakeholders including employees, competitiveness and future success depend managers.
Employees have access to over trade unions, shareholders, customers, business not only on the skills of our employees and the 350 on-line courses.
partners, suppliers, competitors, governments quality of our products, but also on our standing Health and safety and local communities.
Much of this takes place in the community and our commitment to high The health and safety of our employees in the normal course of business but this year standards of corporate governance and corporate and the communities around our facilities is we conducted a specific CR survey to build our responsibility CR.
We aim to be, and to be seen very important.
Our statistics show that through understanding.
as, a responsible corporate citizen in all the increased leadership, focus and attention and communities in which we operate worldwide.
Workplace training and awareness amongst our employees, All our people are encouraged to realise their our performance in this area continues to Management full potential as valued members of the improve to the benefit of all.
Overall responsibility for CR lies with the board company.
Everyone who works for our company of directors.
It has delegated certain matters Environment contributes to our success.
By working together to a number of Board Committees.
The We have a responsibility to manage our impact we will stimulate innovation and generate a Chief Executive is responsible for all normal on the environment, be it as a direct result of more exciting and rewarding environment in operational matters and has delegated specific our manufacturing operations, waste from our which we all feel valued and respected.
responsibilities to the Group Legal Director offices or the products we produce.
Ethics and Compliance and the Group HR Recognition All our major manufacturing sites have now Director Workplace, Community and Business Our Chairmans Award for Innovation scheme achieved accreditation to the international Environment.
In addition, in 2005 the Board recognises employees whose ideas, actions environmental management standard ISO 14001 has resolved to create a new board committee and behaviours make BAE Systems a better, and we continue to deliver improvements in relation for CR, chaired by a non-executive director.
This year over to energy use, waste and water consumption.
Governance and risk 3,000 nominations were received.
From those, Education and community Governance of CR risks are an integral part of 48 Silver Awards were allocated across the BAE Systems takes an active role in community our overall corporate governance structure.
two categories of Innovation and Best Practice and education activities, supporting charities Comprehensive risk management processes Implementation Awards.
The best of these and working directly with those communities are in place to identify and mitigate risk, nominations were considered for Gold Awards.
close to our facilities worldwide.
Dignity at work Assurance Support for the education sector remains a BAE Systems has a long-standing commitment It is important that our CR reporting addresses key part of BAE Systems CR programme.
The to develop and maintain a working environment issues that are material to our business and company is working actively with education whereby all employees have the right, and the reflects stakeholder concerns.
In 2004 we bodies, and with schools local to its principal ability, to work in an atmosphere free from worked with csrnetwork, an independent sites, to ensure that young people have the right intimidation of any kind and where they are treated assurance organisation, to benchmark our CR skills and are inspired to consider careers in with dignity and respect.
Our Respect at Work policy reporting against other major companies and engineering.
We have this year carried out a major and procedure ensures issues and complaints best practice standards using the Accountability review of our UK educational activities and will, in this area are quickly and effectively resolved.
More information on their assessment as a result, be running in 2005 a special schools Diversity and recommendations can be found in our roadshow involving theatre and a practical BAE Systems is committed to equality of annual CR Report.
workshop and offering a wealth of new online opportunity for all employees and creating resources at www.
com education Our responsibilities a workplace where everyone is treated with As a company we demand and expect honesty, respect.
Our Corporate Diversity Steering Corporate Responsibility Report on the web integrity and fairness in all aspects of our Group is working with diversity coordinators Full information on our activity and business.
We are committed to comply with in our business units to help us recruit and commitments can be found in the annual the law in every country where we operate.
retain the best talent for our business.
In Corporate Responsibility Report available This includes laws implementing the OECD 2004 the Executive Committee agreed a in hard copy or at www.
com Anti-Bribery Convention and the US Foreign more proactive approach to enhancing  Corrupt Practices Act.
We will not tolerate diversity amongst the employee population.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 21 21 21 Board of directors Dick Olver Mike Turner Chris Geoghegan Michael Lester George Rose Mark Ronald Steve Mogford Chairman Chief Executive Chief Operating Group Legal Director Group Finance Chief Operating Chief Operating Officer Director Officer Officer Professor Sue Birley Ulrich Cartellieri Michael Hartnall Lord Hesketh Sir Peter Mason Michael Portillo 2,3 Dr Ulrich Cartellieri Steve Mogford, Chief Operating Officer Chairman A director of Robert Bosch GmbH and, until Appointed to the Board in 2000 as a Chief 2,4 Dick Olver recently, a member of the Supervisory Board Operating Officer, he has held a number of Appointed to the Board as a non-executive of Deutsche Bank AG.
Age: 67 senior positions within the company including director in May 2004, he succeeded Sir Richard responsibility for the groups military aircraft 1 Michael Hartnall Evans as Chairman on 1 July 2004.
He is chairman of the Eurofighter Formerly finance director of Rexam plc, prior to chairs the Boards Nominations Committee and Supervisory Board.
Age: 48 which he held senior positions with a number the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
Mr Hartnall chairs Mark Ronald CBE, Chief Operating Officer Formerly deputy chief executive of BP p. l. c. he the Boards Audit Committee.
Age: 62 Appointed to the Board in 2002 as a Chief is a non-executive director of Reuters Group plc Operating Officer.
Formerly head of GECs 2 and deputy chairman of TNK-BP.
Age: 58 Rt Hon Lord Hesketh KBE North American defence business, in 1999 Non-executive deputy chairman of Babcock he was appointed President and CEO of International Group Plc and Chairman of Executive directors BAE Systems North America.
Age: 54 4 George Rose, Group Finance Director 1,2, 3 Mike Turner CBE, Chief Executive Sir Peter Mason KBE Appointed Group Finance Director in 1998 and Appointed Chief Executive in 2002, having been Chief executive of AMEC plc and also a board is a member of the shareholder committee of a Chief Operating Officer since 1999.
He is a member of UK Trade and Investment.
Prior to joining the company in 1992, member of the shareholder committee of Mason has been nominated the Boards Senior he held senior positions in the Rover Group and Airbus SAS.
He is a member of the Financial 1,2 Chris Geoghegan, Chief Operating Officer Rt Hon Michael Portillo MP Reporting Review Panel.
Age: 52 Appointed to the Board in 2002 as a Chief A member of parliament, Michael Portillo was Operating Officer.
He was formerly responsible a cabinet minister in the 1990s, and was Non-executive directors for the groups Airbus operations and in 2000 successively Chief Secretary to the Treasury, was appointed group managing director of the Secretary of State for Employment, and 1,2, 3 Professor Sue Birley Avionics business.
Age: 50 Secretary of State for Defence.
Age: 51 Formerly Professor of Entrepreneurship at 4 Michael Lester, Group Legal Director Imperial College, University of London, and Appointed a member of the Board following the has held a number of academic positions Company Secretary BAe MES merger.
Prior to the merger he was a at INSEAD, London Business School and director and vice chairman of The General Cranfield Institute of Technology.
Professor David Parkes Electric Company, p. l. c.. Age: 64 Birley chairs the Boards Remuneration Committee.
Age: 61 1 member of the Audit Committee 2 member of the Nominations Committee 3 member of the Remuneration Committee 4 member of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee 22 22 Summarised corporate governance Summarised corporate governance Corporate governance is the process by which companies are controlled and directed a companys board is ultimately responsible for this.
The key to good corporate governance is having the right leadership, strategy and control structures in place to produce and sustain the delivery of value to shareholders.
Good corporate governance, and its visibility, gives confidence to all associated with a company that it is being managed well and that value is being created.
Our objective in this report is to summarise the key elements of the companys governance structure and relate this to the principles in the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance a code of good practice for listed companies.
Dick Olver, Chairman The Board The Chairman, who serves in a non-executive A formal review of the composition of the Board Every company should be headed by capacity, is responsible for the effective working was undertaken by the Nominations Committee an effective board, which is collectively of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible during 2004.
As a result of this, it was agreed that responsible for the success of the company.
to the Board for the normal management of the the Board would benefit from the appointment of Combined Code Main Principle A.
non-executive directors with a US background.
A search for suitable candidates is underway.
The Board is responsible for the leadership The present Chairman was appointed in 2004. of the company.
It has mandated standards On his appointment the Nominations Committee Information and professional development of behaviour and key policies, covering: agreed that he was independent based on the The Board should be supplied in a timely - business ethics criteria used in the Combined Code.
manner with information in a form and of a - business planning quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
All - risk management Board balance and independence directors should receive induction on joining - internal control The Board should include a balance of executive the board and should regularly update and - personal behaviour and non-executive directors and in particular refresh their skills and knowledge.
independent non-executive directors such that Through the companys Integrated Business Combined Code Main Principle A.
5 no individual or small group of individuals can Planning process the Board is involved in the dominate the Boards decision making.
The Board has agreed which information it development of strategy.
The Board approves Combined Code Main Principle A.
3 should receive on a regular basis.
business plans that are used to implement strategy and monitor the operational At present the Board comprises 13 directors, of The Chief Executive is responsible for the performance of the company.
The Board considers training and development needs of the that all the non-executive directors with the executive directors, and the Company The Board has delegated the normal operational exception of Lord Hesketh are independent Secretary for the non-executive directors.
management of the company to the executive using the criteria in the Combined Code.
directors and other senior managers but certain Performance evaluation matters have been reserved for its decision.
Appointments to the Board The Board should undertake a formal The Board met on 12 occasions in 2004 plus an There should be a formal rigorous and and rigorous annual evaluation of its own additional two days were spent reviewing strategy.
transparent procedure for the appointment performance and that of its committees of new directors to the Board.
Chairman and Chief Executive Combined Code Main Principle A.
6 There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company The Board has appointed a committee, the The Board has recently undertaken an between the running of the Board and the Nominations Committee, with responsibility evaluation of its own effectiveness and that executive responsibility for the running of the for reviewing the composition of the Board on of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration companys business.
No one individual should a regular basis and, if deemed necessary, to committees.
The performance of individual have unfettered powers of decision.
find suitable candidates for appointment to directors was included as part of this process.
The evaluation was undertaken with the The Chairman and Chief Executive have been The Nominations Committee led the search in assistance of external facilitators and resulted appointed separately and there is a clear division 2004 for a suitable individual to succeed Sir in the Board agreeing a number of actions in of responsibilities between these two positions.
Richard Evans as Chairman of the company.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 23 23 Annual re-election Relations with shareholders The Audit Committee has agreed safeguards All directors should be submitted for re-election at There should be a dialogue with shareholders aimed at protecting the independence of the regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory based on the mutual understanding of Auditors.
The Board should ensure planned objectives.
The Board as a whole has A review of the performance of the current and progressive refreshing of the Board.
responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, was undertaken by Combined Code Main Principle A.
7 dialogue with shareholders takes place.
On the basis of Combined Code Main Principle D. 1 All new directors are required to seek re-election this, the Board has agreed that a resolution to the Board at the first Annual General Meeting The Board should use the AGM to communicate for their reappointment be put to the AGM.
with investors and to encourage their participation.
Combined Code Main Principle D. 2 Compliance with the Combined Code All directors are required to stand down and on Corporate Governance seek re-election to the Board at least once every The company has a comprehensive investor The Board confirms that the company is three years.
relations programme and maintains an Investor compliant with all the provisions of the Relations website.
This can be accessed at The Nominations Committee is responsible for Combined Code with the exception of provision www.
planning the progressive refreshing of the Board A.
This requires that at least half of the see Appointments to the Board above.
board should comprise independent nonThe Annual General Meeting provides all executive directors.
The Board has agreed that shareholders with the opportunity to develop Financial reporting it should be compliant with this provision and a their understanding of the company and ask The Board should present a balanced search for suitable candidates for appointment questions on the matters put to the meeting and understandable assessment of the to the Board in a non-executive capacity is in including this report and accounts.
It is believed that this process will Combined Code Main Principle C. 1 be successful and that the Board will in due Audit Committee and Auditors In preparing these reports the directors have course be compliant.
The Board should establish formal and sought to present a summarised but balanced transparent arrangements for considering In the period from 1 January to 25 February and easily understood assessment of the how they should apply the financial reporting 2004 the membership of the Boards Audit and companys performance and have given and internal control principles and for Remuneration committeees was not compliant guidance on its future prospects.
The full report maintaining an appropriate relationship with provisions C. 3.1 and B.
2.1 of the and accounts available to shareholders on with the companys auditors.
Combined Code as one member, Lord Hesketh, request provides more detailed reports and Combined Code Main Principle C. 3 was not independent using the definitions used financial statements.
in the new Combined Code in previous years he The Board has appointed an audit committee The companys accounts have been produced had been considered independent under the that is responsible for reviewing the on a going concern basis.
provisions of the original Combined Code.
On effectiveness of the companys financial 25 February 2004 the Board changed the reporting, internal control policies and Internal control composition of the Audit and Remuneration procedures for the identification of risk.
It The Board should maintain a sound system committees to ensure that the company is also responsible for keeping the relationship of internal controls to safeguard shareholders complied with the new Code.
with the companys Auditors under review.
The investments and the companys assets.
Committee has four members all of whom are Combined Code - Main Principle C. 2 independent non-executive directors.
The overall responsibility for the system of The Audit Committee met on four occasions internal control within BAE Systems rests with in 2004 and, amongst other things, undertook the directors of the company.
Responsibility for the following: establishing and operating detailed controlreviewed the financial statements and procedures lies with the managing director of received reports on them from the Auditors: each operating business.
-reviewed the output from the processes The directors have completed a formal review of used by the company to identify, evaluate the effectiveness of the companys internal and mitigate risk: controls.
In order to assist the Board in this - reviewed the effectiveness of the companys review, an Operational Assurance Statement internal controls: OAS is produced by each part of the business.
- monitored the companys Ethics Hotline It is signed off by the relevant managing director and matters reported: to confirm compliance against the companys - agreed the scope of the Auditors work mandated policies and procedures, including and their fees: and operational and financial controls and risk - monitored the performance of the Internal management processes.
24 24 Summarised remuneration report Summarised remuneration report Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to 2005, and will continue to consult on material Total shareholder return attract, retain and motivate directors of the changes with principal shareholders.
The quality required to run the company successfully, Committee intends to undertake a formal review Source: Datastream 120 but a company should avoid paying more than of remuneration policy in the second half of 2005. is necessary for this purpose.
A significant 100 FTSE 100 Index Remuneration of executive directors consists proportion of executive directors remuneration 80 typically of basic salary, a bonus based on annual should be structured so as to link rewards to 60 performance, participation in employee share corporate and individual performance.
The Combined Code - Main Principle B.
1 BAE Systems plc Committee reviews the split between basic 20 salary and the performance related elements There should be a formal and transparent procedure 0 of remuneration each year in order to incentivise for developing policy on executive remuneration and 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 properly executive directors, and believes that for fixing the remuneration packages of individual This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2004, of 100 a significant proportion of remuneration should directors.
No director should be involved in deciding invested in BAE Systems on 31 December 1999 compared be based on schemes that encourage them to his or her own remuneration.
to the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The perform at the highest level.
Through this other points plotted are the values at intervening year-ends.
2 arrangement, it is possible for those individuals The graph, which has been produced in accordance with who contribute to sustained high levels of the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act The Remuneration Committee 1985, shows the total shareholder return for a holding in the company performance to receive at least a similar The Board has delegated to the Remuneration companys ordinary shares for the period 1999 - 2004 relative level of reward from variable compensation to that Committee responsibility for remuneration to a holding of shares representing the FTSE 100.
The FTSE received from fixed compensation.
At median policy and determining the specific packages 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this performance, variable remuneration represents purpose as it is a broad equity market index.
As BAE Systems for the executive directors and the Chairman.
It is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed approximately 50% of the remuneration package also agrees the framework for the remuneration to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
as shown in the chart below: of certain other members of the executive management team.
The Committee's terms of remuneration to ensure that the structure of Target performance reference conform with the requirements of the the package stays in line with market practice, median Combined Code, and can be found on the and also takes account of the performance of 4 1 companys website or obtained from the the individual, the company as a whole and the 1 Salary 31% Company Secretary.
pay and conditions of group employees.
2 Pension 22% 3 Bonus 15% As a result of this review, the Committee decided Remuneration principles 3 2 4 Long-term incentive to increase the base salary of the executive The Committees remuneration strategy is to rewards 32% directors with effect from 1 January 2005 as provide a remuneration package that: At upper quartile performance, variable remuneration set out in the notes to the table on page 25.
- helps attract, retain and motivate the represents significantly more than 50% highest calibre executives: Annual Bonus Plan Basic salary - is aligned to shareholders interests to create The executive directors and other senior Executive directors' salaries are reviewed each sustainable long-term shareholder value: executives participate in a cash bonus scheme year by the Committee and adjusted to reflect - is competitive against the appropriate that rewards those individuals if pre-determined performance and the competitiveness of market, providing median reward for median targets are met.
The targets are derived from the salaries relative to the market.
Information performance and upper quartile reward for Integrated Business Plan IBP, which is agreed on the market for comparable management upper quartile performance: by the Board and which implements corporate positions is obtained from independent sources - encourages and supports a high performance strategy on a groupwide basis by ensuring that and is provided to the Committee so that it can culture whilst providing a balance between business plans which support the strategy are form a view as to where to position basic salaries integrated across all businesses.
The IBP is fixed and variable reward: and benefits relative to comparable companies.
used to set the objectives for senior - is fair and transparent and can be applied management including the base and stretch consistently throughout the group.
The methodology used is to construct targets for the financial measures used for the appropriate comparator groups for the individual executive directors in the Annual Bonus Plan.
Executive directors positions taking account of company size, scale Non-financial targets comprise key objectives of operations and breadth of role.
The median relevant to the individual and or business and Remuneration policy and upper quartile positions are then analysed also take account of behavioural performance.
The Committee's executive remuneration policy for base salary, total cash reward base salary The targets for the executive directors are continues to be to set basic salaries at median plus annual bonus, total direct reward total agreed and monitored by the Committee.
The competitive levels whilst seeking to reward upper cash reward plus long-term incentives and maximum bonus potential for 2005 remains the quartile performance with potential upper quartile total reward including pension.
This gives the same as for 2004 at 100% of salary 150% for remuneration through the use of bonus schemes Committee a view on the competitiveness of the US based executive director, Mark Ronald.
The Committee the individual elements of the package as well intends to continue with the executive as the package as a whole.
The Committee 2004 was a very successful year with all the remuneration policy as detailed in this report in also reviews the trends in the elements of major business groups achieving their stretch BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 25 25 Directors' remuneration All figures 000 2004 Basic 2003 salary Fees Bonus Benefits Total Total Chairman Sir Richard Evans 200 - - 8 208 416 R L Olver - 256 - 1 257 n a Executive directors CV Geoghegan 423 - 399 20 842 621 M Lester 518 - 489 23 1,030 749 Sir Charles Masefield n a n a n a n a n a 75 S L Mogford 423 - 414 13 850 591 M H Ronald 433 - 637 26 1,096 875 G W Rose 463 - 446 19 928 652 M J Turner 730 - 712 44 1,486 1,228 Non-executive directors Sir Robin Biggam n a n a n a n a n a 13 Prof S Birley -55 - - 55 44 KCBrown n a n a n a n a n a 13 Dr U Cartellieri -45 - - 45 36 MJ Hartnall -65 - - 65 36 Lord Hesketh -45 - - 45 36 Sir Peter Mason -55 - - 55 42 M Portillo -45 - - 45 36 P Scaroni -7 - - 7 34 retired during the year appointed during the year ceased to be a director in 2003 All emoluments and compensation paid to the directors during the year are shown above.
Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from appointment.
accruing retirement benefits under defined benefit schemes at 31 December 2004 accruing benefits under money purchase arrangements at 31 December 2004 The aggregate amount of directors emoluments in 2004 was 7,013,863.
The aggregate amount of unrealised gains made by directors on share options was 59,716 and the aggregate net value of assets received by directors from long-term incentive plans was 250,729.
The aggregate amount of company contributions paid in respect of money purchase retirement benefits for directors was 517,838 being: i a payment of 2,749 to Mark Ronalds 401 k plan: and ii a payment of 515,089 to George Roses FURBS arrangement comprising, approximately, a normal contribution of 339,000, plus a payment of 176,000 to deal with investment under-performance.
As a result of the detailed salary review undertaken by the Committee in 2004, the base salary of the executive directors has increased with effect from 1 January 2005 to the following: CV Geoghegan: 445,000: M Lester: 540,000: S L Mogford: 445,000: M H Ronald: $850,000: G W Rose: 500,000: M J Turner: 800,000. targets on profit and cash.
As a result, all the incentive schemes.
The company operates a price growth plus dividends over a three-year financial targets within the 2004 Annual Bonus combination of option and share based awards performance period is in the top 50% of the Plan for executive directors were met at the for executive directors within the following TSR comparator group, with 100% of the stretch level.
In addition, excellent progress framework which is in line with similar plans shares under award being released if the was made against the majority of the key operated by other FTSE 100 companies: TSR is in the top 20%.
Intermediate positions non-financial objectives, but the lack of progress - options granted under the Executive Share will be calculated on a straight line pro-rata in winning more export orders is disappointing Option Plan to be set at a maximum of 1.5 x basis.
Vesting will also be subject to the and more work remains to be done in 2005 salary.
Vesting of options is subject to the Committee being satisfied there has been on securing technology transfer from the US achievement of real earnings per share EPS a sustained improvement in underlying to the UK.
Accordingly, bonus payments for growth targets over a three-year performance financial performance.
The TSR comparator 2004, which are set out above, range from period.
For grants made in 2005, there will group comprises 18 other major defence and 94.5% to 98% of the maximum bonus.
be no retests where the original performance aerospace companies operating in the criteria are not met: international arena.
- awards under the Performance Share Plan Share option schemes and long-term to be set at 1 x salary.
The median level In determining the performance criteria, the incentive schemes of vesting for the 2005 awards will be 25% of Committee took the view that EPS is a key The Committee seeks to align the interests indicator of long-term financial performance of the executive directors with those of other the shares under award if the company's total and value creation and that TSR is an indication shareholders through the use of share based shareholder return TSR performance share 26 Summarised remuneration report continued, Summarised directors report, Auditors statement Summarised directors report of earnings and capital growth relative to the BAE Systems is a company engaged in the of the company in the event of the termination industry-specific comparator group.
development, delivery and support of advanced of a contract.
Mark Ronald, who has a defence and aerospace systems in the air, on one-year rolling contract, is entitled inter alia Executive directors who participate in the land, at sea and in space.
The company to compensation of a lump sum equal to one Annual Bonus Plan may be given the option of designs, manufactures and supports military year's salary if the contract is not renewed at taking any net cash bonus paid partly or wholly aircraft, surface ships, submarines, radar, the end of its term.
Sir Richard Evans, who in shares through the Restricted Share Plan fighting vehicles, avionics, communications, retired as executive director and Chairman for which a matching award of shares is made electronics and guided weapon systems.
on 30 June 2004, had a contract requiring after three years providing the individual him to work three days a week in his capacity remained in the company's employment at Further details of the principal activities of the as Chairman which could be terminated by the vesting date.
The matching award is not company and likely future developments in the either party giving six months' notice.
subject to performance criteria as the scheme is business are set out in the Chief Executives designed to retain key staff and encourage them review, summarised financial review and Chairman and non-executive directors to invest the cash bonuses they have earned operating review on pages 3 to 19.
Dick Olver succeeded Sir Richard Evans as under the bonus plan which was itself based on Chairman on 1 July 2004 having been appointed The names of the current directors are listed on performance criteria.
as a non-executive director on 17 May 2004. page 21.
Their remuneration for the year is set He is required to devote at least two days a week out on pages 24 to 26.
The executive directors are also entitled to to his duties as Chairman, unless terminated participate in the company's Share Incentive Paolo Scaroni retired as a director at the earlier in accordance with the company's Plan, an all-employee share plan.
conclusion of the AGM held on 5 May 2004.
Articles of Association, or by either party giving Dick Olver was appointed as a director of the to the other not less than six months' prior Retirement benefits company on 17 May 2004.
Sir Richard Evans written notice.
The executive directors of the company are retired as director and Chairman on 30 June members of group pension schemes and pay The non-executive directors do not have 2004.
Dick Olver succeeded him as Chairman contributions at the same rate as all other service contracts but do have letters of on 1 July 2004.
Lord Hesketh will be retiring employees participating in the schemes appointment detailing the basis of their from the Board at the conclusion of this years except where they have already reached appointment.
AGM on 4 May 2005. normal retirement age.
Non-executive directors are paid a fee reflecting The auditors have reported on the full annual the time commitment required of the director.
The accounts, their report was unqualified and did Personal shareholding policy fee level for the chairmen of the Audit and not contain statements under section 237 2 The Committee has agreed a policy whereby Remuneration Committees reflects their or 3 of the Companies Act 1985. all executive directors are required to establish additional responsibilities and workload.
Fees and maintain a minimum personal shareholding payable to non-executives in 2004 were agreed by Office of Fair Trading undertakings equal to 200% of salary.
As a minimum, a the Board: the non-executive directors themselves As a consequence of the merger between holding equal to 100% of salary must be did not participate in board discussions or vote on British Aerospace and the former GEC Marconi achieved as quickly as possible using shares matters concerning their fees.
Electronics Systems businesses in 1999, the vesting, or options exercised, through the company is required to comply with undertakings executive share option schemes, or long-term In January 2005 the Board formed the given to the Secretary of State for Trade and incentive schemes, by using 50% of the shares Non-Executive Directors' Fees Committee with Industry.
Compliance with the undertakings is that vest or 50% of the options which are authority on the Board's behalf to agree fees monitored by an independent compliance officer.
Thereafter, payable to non-executive directors.
The NonFurther information regarding the undertakings executive directors are required to increase their Executive Directors Fees Committee has and the contact details of the compliance officer personal shareholding gradually, on each agreed that fees payable to non-executive may be obtained from the Company Secretary at directors will remain unchanged in 2005. occasion using 25% of the shares that vest or the company's registered office.
However, it has decided that, as the company 25% of the options exercised each year, until has increased the number of board meetings a personal shareholding equal to 200% of Share capital held in North America and is considering the annual salary is achieved and maintained.
As at 23 February 2005, the company had been potential appointment of US-based nonThese limits are reviewed periodically.
advised of the following significant interests in executive directors, a transatlantic meeting the issued ordinary share capital of the company: Executive directors' service contracts allowance of 4,000 per board meeting should It is the Remuneration Committee's policy be introduced.
This takes into account the Brandes Investment Partners, LP: 13.0% that executive directors should normally have additional time commitment required by the Franklin Resources, Inc service contracts that provide for the company European-based non-executive directors to and its affiliates: 8.1% to give the individual 12 months' notice of attend board meetings in the US and similarly FRM Corp and Fidelity International termination.
This policy has been chosen the commitment of potential US-based Limited: 5.02% because it provides a reasonable balance non-executive directors to attend meetings Barclays PLC: 3.96% between the need to retain the services of key in Europe.
This allowance applies from the Legal and General Investment individuals and the need to limit the liabilities beginning of 2005.
Management Limited: 3.0% BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 27 Auditors statement The companys Articles of Association contain Statement of the independent auditors to the Basis of opinion provisions to the effect that no foreign person, members of BAE SYSTEMS plc pursuant to We conducted our work in accordance with or foreign persons acting in concert, can have section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on an interest in more than 15% of the companys the summary financial statement issued by the We have examined the summary financial issued ordinary share capital.
Auditing Practices Board for use in the United statement set out on pages 28 to 31, the Kingdom.
Our report on the groups full annual summary directors report on page 26 and the financial statements describes the basis of our Results and dividends table of directors remuneration on page 25. audit opinion on those financial statements.
The loss after taxation and minority interests was 467m 2003 profit 6m.
The directors This statement is made solely to the companys Opinion propose a final dividend of 5.8p per ordinary members, as a body, in accordance with section In our opinion the summary financial statement, share, amounting to 178m 2003 168m, 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has summary directors report and table of which, together with the interim dividend, been undertaken so that we might state to the directors remuneration are consistent with the amounts to a total annual dividend of 9.5p per companys members those matters we are full annual financial statements, the directors ordinary share 2003 9.2p, at a total cost of required to state to them in such a statement report and the directors remuneration report 291m 2003 281m.
After deducting 21m and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent of BAE SYSTEMS plc for the year ended 2003 21m, which represents the total for permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 31 December 2004 and comply with the the preference share dividend, the total retained responsibility to anyone other than the company applicable requirements of section 251 of loss for the year is 779m 2003 296m.
and the companys members as a body, for our the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations work, for this statement, or for the opinions we made thereunder.
Political donations It is the companys policy not to make Respective responsibilities of directors contributions to political parties.
and auditors The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums The directors are responsible for preparing the Act 2000 the Act, amongst other things, Annual Review in accordance with applicable prohibits the company and its subsidiaries from United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to making donations to EU Political Organisations report to you our opinion on the consistency as defined in the Act of more than 5,000 of the summary financial statement, summary in any twelve month period unless they are directors report and table of directors authorised to do so by the companys remuneration within the Annual Review with shareholders.
The Act defines EU Political the full annual financial statements, directors Organisations widely as a result of which the report and the directors remuneration definition could include bodies, such as those report, and its compliance with the relevant concerned with policy review and law reform requirements of section 251 of the Companies or with the representation of the business Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
community or sections of it, which the company may see benefit in supporting.
In recognition We also read the other information contained in of this fact the shareholders, at the 2002 AGM, the Annual Review and consider the implications authorised the company and certain of its for our report if we become aware of any apparent subsidiaries to make donations or incur misstatements or material inconsistencies with expenditure as defined in the Act up to an the summary financial statement.
aggregate maximum of 250,000 in a twelve month period.
The company made a donation of 50,000 in 2004 to Britain in Europe which may be deemed to fall within the ambit of the Act.
Annual General Meeting The company's Annual General Meeting will be held on 4 May 2005.
The Notice of Annual General KPMG Audit Plc London Meeting is enclosed with this annual review and Chartered 23 February 2005 includes details of the resolutions to be proposed Accountants at the meeting.
These include special resolutions Registered Auditor for the disapplication of pre-emption rights pursuant to section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 and a change to the companys Articles of Association concerning the provision of indemnities for directors and officers of the company.
28 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 Consolidated profit and loss account FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER Continuing operations Existing Acquisitions Total Total 2004 2004 2004 2003 m m m m Sales 13,201 278 13,479 12,572 Less: adjustment for share of joint venture sales 4,378 6 4,384 4,185 Turnover 8,823 272 9,095 8,387 Operating costs Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 8,145 259 8,404 7,717 Goodwill amortisation and impairment 920 9 929 403 Exceptional items 9 9,065 268 9,333 8,129 Operating loss profit 242 4 238 258 Share of operating profit loss of joint ventures Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 322 322 310 Goodwill amortisation 109 109 115 213 213 195 Loss profit before interest Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 1,000 13 1,013 980 Goodwill amortisation and impairment 1,029 9 1,038 518 Exceptional items 9 29 4 25 453 Interest Net interest 177 194 Share of net interest of joint ventures 30 26 207 220 Loss profit on ordinary activities before taxation 232 233 Tax Tax on profit excluding exceptional items 139 128 Tax on exceptional items 3 Share of tax of joint ventures 95 100 234 225 Loss profit on ordinary activities after taxation 466 8 Equity minority interests 1 2 Loss profit for the financial year 467 6 Dividends Equity: ordinary shares 291 281 Non-equity: preference shares 21 21 312 302 Retained loss 779 296 Basic and diluted loss per share 16.0 p 0.5 p Basic and diluted earnings per share Excluding goodwill amortisation and impairment and exceptional items 18.0p 16.6p The results for 2003 arose from continuing operations.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 29 Consolidated balance sheet AS AT 31 DECEMBER Group Restated 2004 2003 m m Fixed assets Intangible assets 5,647 6,000 Tangible assets 1,751 1,699 Investments Share of gross assets of joint ventures, including goodwill 7,747 7,827 Share of gross liabilities of joint ventures 6,139 6,212 Share of joint ventures 1,608 1,615 Others 66 95 1,674 1,710 9,072 9,409 Current assets Stocks 895 775 Debtors due within one year 1,774 2,588 Debtors due after one year 1,064 927 Investments 1,420 883 Cash at bank and in hand 987 780 6,140 5,953 Liabilities falling due within one year Loans and overdrafts 719 779 Creditors 6,565 5,846 7,284 6,625 Net current liabilities 1,144 672 Total assets less current liabilities 7,928 8,737 Liabilities falling due after one year Loans 1,665 1,749 Creditors 508 482 2,173 2,231 Provisions for liabilities and charges 1,017 900 4,738 5,606 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 143 143 Share premium account 412 412 555 555 Statutory reserve 202 202 Other reserves 5,372 5,370 Profit and loss account 1,405 536 Shareholders funds Equity 4,458 5,325 Non-equity 266 266 4,724 5,591 Equity minority interests 14 15 4,738 5,606 Approved by the Board on 23 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by: M J Turner, Chief Executive G W Rose, Group Finance Director 30 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 Other group statements Statement of total recognised gains and losses FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 2003 m m Loss profit for the financial year Group, excluding joint ventures 555 63 Joint ventures 88 69 Total loss profit for the financial year 467 6 Currency translation on foreign currency net investments subsidiaries 43 93 joint ventures 62 181 Adjustment to Exchange Property 13 121 Dilution of interest in net assets of Saab 2 Unrealised gain on exchange of interests 11 Write down of previously revalued fixed assets 3 Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year net 90 217 Total recognised gains and losses relating to the year 557 223 Note of historical cost profits and losses FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 2003 m m Reported loss profit on ordinary activities before taxation 232 233 Difference between historical cost and revalued amount Depreciation on land and buildings 3 5 Disposal of land and buildings 8 14 Historical cost loss profit before tax on ordinary activities 221 252 Historical cost loss for the year retained after tax, minority interests and dividends 768 277 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 2003 m m Loss profit for the financial year 467 6 Dividends 312 302 779 296 Other recognised gains and losses relating to the year net 90 217 Share based payments 2 5 Net decrease in shareholders funds 867 74 Opening shareholders funds 5,591 5,665 Closing shareholders funds 4,724 5,591 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Review 2004 31 Summarised consolidated cash flow statement and reconciliation to net cash debt FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 2003 m m Operating loss profit 238 258 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 1,131 625 Profit on disposal of fixed assets and investments 27 23 Impairment on fixed asset investment 5 Movement in provisions for liabilities and charges excluding deferred tax 71 172 Increase decrease in working capital Stocks 70 19 Debtors 727 24 Creditors 89 355 Customer stage payments 525 460 Net cash inflow from operating activities 2,071 836 Capital expenditure and financial investment 256 248 Dividends from joint ventures 69 37 Operating business cash inflow 1,884 625 Interest and preference dividends 120 138 Taxation 31 75 Free cash inflow 1,733 562 Acquisitions 550 62 Equity dividends paid 281 281 Net cash inflow before financing and management of liquid resources 902 219 Management of liquid resources 529 206 Financing 169 380 Net increase in cash available on demand 204 45 Net increase decrease in liquid resources 529 206 Net decrease in other loans included within net funds 169 380 Change in net funds from cash flows 902 219 Loans acquired on acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 80 Other non-cash movements 9 121 Foreign exchange 57 72 Net increase in net funds 888 412 Net funds at 1 January 865 1,277 Net funds at 31 December 23 865 Cash on customers account 18 5 Net cash debt as defined by the group 5 870 32 Shareholder information Shareholder information If you have your dividends paid straight to your Registered office Daily share prices are available in the UK bank account, and you have selected e-mail 6 Carlton Gardens on the FT Cityline service as follows: as your mailing preference, you can also London, SW1Y 5AD BAE SYSTEMS plc ordinary shares collect your tax voucher electronically.
Instead United Kingdom Telephone: 0906 003 1890 of receiving the paper tax voucher, you will Telephone: 44 0 1252 373232 be notified by e-mail with details of how to Company website: www.
com BAE SYSTEMS plc preference shares download your electronic version.
Telephone: 0906 003 5174 Registered in England & Wales, No.
1470151 However, if you choose post as your preference, Calls are charged at 60p per minute at all times Registrars you will be sent paper documents as usual.
Lloyds TSB Registrars 0140 Alternatively you can view teletext or a Visit the site for more details: www.
The Causeway, Worthing similar service.
Details of software and equipment requirements West Sussex, BN99 6DA are given on the website.
United Kingdom Dividend reinvestment plan Telephone: 0870 600 3982 The company offers holders of its ordinary Shareholder dealing service 44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK shares the option to elect to have their dividend Hoare Govett Limited offers a low cost reinvested in shares purchased in the market If you have any queries regarding your postal dealing service enabling UK resident instead of cash.
If you would like to make this shareholding, please contact the registrars.
shareholders to buy or sell BAE SYSTEMS plc election, please request a dividend reinvestment shares.
Basic commission is 1%, subject to plan mandate from our registrars: a minimum charge of 12.00.
If you require Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, further information please contact: Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Hoare Govett Limited Telephone: 0870 241 3018 Shareview service Telephone: 44 0 20 7678 8300 44 121 415 7058 from outside the UK The Shareview service from our registrar, This notice has been approved by Hoare Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives shareholders: American Depositary Receipts Govett Limited which is authorised and - direct access to data held on their behalf The BAE SYSTEMS plc American Depositary regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
on the share register including recent Receipts ADRs are traded on the Over The share movements and dividend details: Counter market OTC under the symbol BAESY.
ShareGift - the ability to change their address or One ADR represents four BAE SYSTEMS plc The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates dividend payment instructions on-line.
a charity donation scheme for shareholders To sign up for Shareview you need the shareholder with small parcels of shares which may be JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the depositary.
reference printed on your proxy form or dividend uneconomic to sell.
Details of the scheme are stationery.
There is no charge to register.
If you should have any queries, please contact: available from ShareGift at www.
org or by telephone on 020 7337 0501 When you register with the site, you can register JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. your preferred format post or e-mail for JPMorgan Service Center Share price information shareholder communications.
If you select PO Box 43013, Providence The middle market price of the companys e-mail as your mailing preference, you will be RI 02940-3013, USA ordinary shares on 31 December 2004 was sent shareholder communications, such as Telephone: 1 781 575 4328 230.5p, the range during the year was 159p proxy forms and annual interim results by e-mail Website: www.
instead of post, as long as this option is available.
com Financial calendar Financial year end 31 December Annual General Meeting 4 May 2005 Preference shares conversion date 31 May 2005 2004 final ordinary dividend payable 1 June 2005 2005 half yearly preference dividend payable 1 July 2005 2005 interim results announcement September 2005 2005 interim ordinary dividend payable November 2005 2005 half yearly preference dividend payable 3 January 2006 2005 full year results preliminary announcement February 2006 report and accounts April 2006 2005 final ordinary dividend payable June 2006 BAE SYSTEMS plc 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1252 373232 Registered in England and Wales No.
AREV2004.001 076 Photo Geoffrey Lee at Planefocus Ltd
