110 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 Hawk Hawk is an advanced training and light combat aircraft, with several operational variants.
In December 2004, the UK MoD signed a contract for a new variant of the Hawk, the Advanced Jet Trainer.
Bv206S An armoured variant of the Bv206 all-terrain vehicle.
Glossary A350 C4ISR Future Combat System The Airbus A350 is a wide-body medium size Command, Control, Communication and The cornerstone of the US Armys passenger aircraft with long-range capability.
Computing C4, Intelligence, Surveillance and transformation vision.
It will develop network Reconnaissance ISR.
Systems that provide a centric concepts for a multi-mission combat A380 precise picture of the battlefield in real-time, system through the use of a combination of A high capacity Airbus 555-seat passenger optimising the information available for decision manned and unmanned ground and air aircraft capable of a range of 8,000 nautical making.
C4ISR systems sense the environment, platforms.
process data and combine it with existing Future Carrier A400M knowledge, for optimised mission plans.
The UK Royal Navys next generation aircraft An Airbus military transport aircraft programme, C-17 carrier.
ordered by the UK government.
United States military transport aircraft.
GR9 ASRAAM BAE Systems is the premier avionics supplier A major capability upgrade for the UK Harrier, Advanced Short Range Air-to-Air Missile for the C-17.
enhancing propulsion and aircraft systems Archerfish Captor and providing a smart weapon capability.
An expendable, single shot naval mine Radar system for the Typhoon combat aircraft: Gripen disposal munition.
Captor detects, identifies, prioritises and The first new-generation multi-role swing-role engages targets beyond the effective range of ASTOR combat aircraft to enter service.
enemy weapons, while remaining resistant to Airborne Stand-off Radar.
HALO Bv206 all-terrain vehicle Passive acoustic artillery location system: DASS A multipurpose amphibious tracked vehicle monitors artillery activities across a wide area Defensive Aids Sub-System - an electronic with both military and civilian applications of the battlefield.
Harrier European Economic Area V STOL Vertical Short Take-Off and Landing The European Union plus Norway, Iceland and combat aircraft.
Hawk Exocet Advanced jet training and light combat aircraft.
A range of air-launched, sea-launched and coastal battery missile systems.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 111 Landing Ship Dock Sting Ray Auxiliary An advanced lightweight torpedo.
Work is underway The Sting Ray Mod 1 incorporates on RFA Cardigan a new digital homing system.
Bay which will be launched in 2005.
ISO 14001 PAAMS USAF The standard for environmental management Principal Anti-Air Missile System.
published by the International Standards Aster-PAAMS, a medium range anti-air vertical WolfPack Organisation.
launching missile system based on the ASTER A communication jamming system being 15 and ASTER 30 anti-missile missiles.
JTRS developed by the Defence Advanced Research Joint Tactical Radio System, the next generation Siren Projects Agency.
BAE Systems will provide a radio system for the US military.
Radar decoy systems for warships.
vertical take-off and landing unmanned aerial vehicle to the programme.
Landing Platform Dock Spearfish A UK Royal Navy assault ship capable of Advanced heavyweight torpedo in service with controlling a complete force of amphibious the UK Royal Navy.
ships and supporting the deployment of armed Sting Ray forces ashore.
Advanced lightweight torpedo in service with Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary the UK Royal Navy, UK Royal Air Force and in Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary will provide other countries.
support to amphibious assault and will deliver Storm Shadow Scalp EG personnel and equipment A stealth missile, Storm Shadow is for use on Meteor UK aircraft and Scalp EG on French aircraft.
A beyond visual range air-to-air missile.
Terrier Mica A lightly armoured combat engineering vehicle Multi-mission air-to-air missile.
being developed for the British Army.
NS&S Tornado Networked Systems & Solutions.
The UK Royal Air Forces front line combat aircraft, also in service with the Royal Saudi Air OECD Force, and in Germany and Italy.
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development made up of the 30 most Trafalgar Class Submarine industrialised countries in the world.
A submarine fitted with a propulsor instead of a propellor, covered with noise reduction coatings.
