Group Structure and Directory Group Office Barratt Developments PLC, Wingrove House, Ponteland Road, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE5 3DP.
Tel: 0191 286 6811 Fax: 0191 271 2242 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings UK Housebuild Commercial Property Barratt Homes Ltd. Barratt Construction Ltd. KingsOak Homes Ltd. Barratt Commercial Ltd. Wingrove House, Golf Road, Wingrove House, Wingrove House, Ponteland Road, Ellon, Ponteland Road, Ponteland Road, Newcastle upon Tyne, Aberdeenshire, Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE5 3DP.
Tel: 0191 286 6811 Tel: 01358 720765 Tel: 0191 286 6811 Tel: 0191 286 6811 Fax: 0191 271 2242 Fax: 01358 724043 Fax: 0191 271 2242 Fax: 0191 271 2242 Barratt Homes Ltd Northern Region Central Region West Region Southern Region Barratt Central, Barratt West, Barratt Southern, Barratt Northern, Worrall House, Barratt House, Wallis House, Barratt House, 683 Chester Road, Almondsbury Business Centre, Great West Road, Airport Industrial Estate, Manchester, M16 0QS.
Woodlands, Almondsbury, Brentford, Kenton, Newcastle upon Tyne, Tel: 0161 872 0161 Bristol, BS32 4QH.
Fax: 0161 877 6070 Tel: 01454 202202 Tel: 020 8326 7100 Tel: 0191 286 9866 Fax: 01454 617038 Fax: 020 8326 7204 Fax: 0191 286 8088 Barratt Chester, Oak House, Lloyd Drive, Barratt Bristol, Barratt East London, Barratt East Scotland, Ellesmere Port, Barratt House, Central House, Craigcrook Castle, South Wirral, Almondsbury Business Centre, 32-66 High Street, Craigcrook Road, Cheshire, CH65 9HQ.
Fax: 0151 357 4801 Tel: 01454 202202 Fax: 020 8519 5536 Tel: 0131 336 3655 Fax: 01454 612277 Fax: 0131 336 2392 Barratt East Midlands, Barratt Eastern Counties, Broadgate House, Barratt Exeter, 6-8 Richmond Road, Humber Road, Beeston, Barratt House, Chelmsford, Barratt Leeds, Nottingham, NG9 2EF.
Fax: 01245 232277 Pavilion Business Park, Tel: 01392 439022 Leeds, Barratt Manchester, Fax: 01392 216104 Barratt North London, LS12 6AJ.
Worrall House, Barratt House, Tel: 0113 279 0099 683 Chester Road, Barratt Maidenhead, Wellstones, Watford, Fax: 0113 279 0038 Manchester, M16 0QS.
SC House, Vanwall Road, Hertfordshire, WD17 2AF.
Fax: 01923 297301 Barratt House, Tel: 01628 783017 Airport Industrial Estate, Barratt Northampton, Fax: 01628 636415 Barratt South London, Kenton, 900 Pavilion Drive, Grosvenor House, Newcastle upon Tyne, Northampton Business Park, Barratt Mercia, 110 Manor Road, NE3 2EQ.
Tel: 020 8669 6666 Fax: 0191 271 5985 Tel: 01676 525400 Fax: 020 8669 5299 Barratt Sheffield, Fax: 01676 525401 Barratt West Scotland, Barratt House, Barratt Southern Counties, Mayfield House, Newton Chambers Road, Barratt South Wales, Barratt House, 7 Maggie Wood's Loan, Thorncliffe Park, Oak House, Penarth Road, Walnut Tree Close, Falkirk, FK1 5SJ.
Fax: 01324 625916 Tel: 0114 257 2500 Fax: 029 2070 3675 Tel: 01483 505533 Fax: 0114 257 2501 Fax: 01483 508603 Barratt York, Barratt Southampton, Richmond House, Barratt West Midlands, Barratt House, Bampton Court, Barratt West London, Millfield Lane, Midland House, Hursley Road, Chandlers Ford, Wallis House, Great West Road, Poppleton, New Road, Halesowen, Southampton, Brentford, Middlesex, York, YO26 6PH.
co. uk KINGSOAK Homes Ltd Central Region KingsOak Central, 1st Floor, Midland House, New Road, Halesowen, West Midlands, B63 3HY.
Tel: 0121 550 7483 Fax: 0121 585 5535 KingsOak Milton Keynes, Gazeley House, 26 Rockingham Drive, Linford Wood, Milton Keynes, Bucks, MK14 6PD.
Tel: 01908 541900 Fax: 01908 541901 KingsOak South Midlands, KingsOak House, 2 Elm Court, Copse Drive, Meriden, Coventry, CV5 9RG.
Tel: 01676 525900 Fax: 01676 525901 KingsOak South West, Broadway House, Almondsbury Business Centre, Woodlands, Almondsbury, Bristol, BS32 4QH.
Tel: 01454 275800 Fax: 01454 275824 KingsOak West Midlands, 1st Floor, Midland House, New Road, Halesowen, West Midlands, B63 3HY.
Tel: 0121 585 8788 Fax: 0121 585 8789 Southern Region KingsOak Southern, KingsOak House, Clivemont Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 7BZ.
Tel: 01628 629922 Fax: 01628 762444 KingsOak North London, 3 The Orient Centre, Greycaine Road, Watford, WD24 7JT.
Tel: 01923 810870 Fax: 01923 810871 KingsOak Southampton, 1 Eagle Close, Chandlers Ford, Hampshire, SO53 4NF.
Tel: 02380 461000 Fax: 02380 461007 KingsOak Southern Counties, Rosemount House, Rosemount Avenue, West Byfleet, Surrey, KT14 6LB.
Tel: 01932 353882 Fax: 01932 346431 KingsOak Thames Valley, KingsOak House, Clivemont Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 7BZ.
Tel: 01628 629922 55 Fax: 01628 629500 Barratt Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2004 About this report Contents About this report 2 This report covers all aspects of the Group Chief Executive 3 Barratt Groups Corporate Social About us 4 Responsibility CSR activities.
In particular it addresses our social and Areas of Operation 5 environmental performance, the Awards, Recognition and Highlights 6 management of Occupational Health & CSR Policy Statement 7 Safety, our investment in the training and development of our workforce and Environmental Policy Statement 8 our engagement with our customers, Occupational Health & shareholders, suppliers, contractors Safety Policy Statement 9 and other stakeholders in the delivery CSR Objectives & Targets 10 & 11 of our CSR obligations.
Key Performance Indicators 12 & 13 Details of our economic performance Environmental Aspects 14 are included within our Annual Report.
Recovery & Revitalisation of Land for Urban Regeneration 15 This is our first report and it has been Waste Arising from Operations 16 the subject of an external assurance Employment & Diversity 17 process.
A verification statement is included from our verifiers SEQM Ltd. Advance Housing Limited 18 & 19 Occupational Health & Safety 20 & 21 National Supplier Arrangements 22 Governance & Risk 23 Stakeholders 25 GRI Content Index 26 & 27 WWF Assessment Criteria 28 Case Studies 29 to 43 Verification 44 Feedback Form 46 Group Structure & Directory 47 2 This is nothing new for the Barratt Group.
We have been active in urban and inner city regeneration schemes throughout the UK for close on 30 years, and certainly long before such schemes became fashionable.
This report includes just a few case studies from across our areas of operation illustrating the breadth of experience and the commitment of our management and staff to the delivery of high quality housing and the creation of environments which in our view make our towns and cities finer places in which to live.
We believe we have learnt a lot from the process of preparing this first CSR report.
We have reviewed, and have a better understanding of, the environmental and social impacts of our business.
We are developing new management systems to improve our effectiveness and we are actively engaging with our customers, our staff, Group Chief Executive our suppliers and contractors to ensure that the commercial benefits of our CSR performance are embedded throughout our culture.
The objectives and targets we have set for the year ahead show Welcome to this, our first Corporate Social there is still work to be done, but there is much Responsibility CSR Report, which summarises our we already do in terms of CSR performance that corporate, social and environmental activities to we are learning to communicate more effectively 30th June, 2004.
In last years annual report and to our stakeholders.
accounts we promised that the Group would produce a separate report on our CSR performance.
The Board has approved a new CSR policy statement.
The policy sets the parameters for the We believe that to be of value to our stakeholders development of our longer-term objectives, and the information contained in this report should be these are described in detail in the report.
It identifies not only our strengths but those areas of our CSR A major benefit from the exercise has been the performance we have targeted for improvement.
establishment of a team of senior personnel led The report is a factual summary of what we have by a member of our Executive Board to drive this been doing and what we plan to do in the future.
It seeks to explain how we manage CSR within our The Company continues to embrace CSR and we business by providing products and services of the are actively working to integrate it as part of our highest standard to our customers and normal business operations.
This enables us both to fulfil our activities outlined in this report will result in legal obligations and at the same time improve our direct commercial benefits such as reduced costs, overall performance and profitability.
customer retention and staff development, all of which contribute positively to our overall business As a provider of housing across all markets, both performance.
private and social, the improvement and development of sustainable local communities is at We are pleased with our achievements and look the heart of everything we do.
We believe the forward to recording further successes as we commercial success of our business, and through pursue our programme in the 2004 2005 that the return to our shareholders, will best be financial year.
If you have any comments about enhanced by the delivery of high quality homes on this report or suggestions for improvement, we safe, well managed sites where improvement to the would like to hear from you.
I hope you enjoy environment, the availability of necessary social reading about our progress.
amenities, infrastructure and transport links, are considered and addressed at each stage of development feasibility, design, planning and construction.
David Pretty Group Chief Executive 3 About us We directly employ 4,399 people Perhaps more importantly, in the Barratt has built homes and with an annual turnover of over context of this report, are the factors and communities in towns 2.5 billion, our operations generate underpinning our achievements and and cities across Britain employment and commercial our determination to generate further opportunities for our numerous value for our shareholders from our for the last 46 years.
supply and contracting partners and core business creating high quality In all, we have built the many specialist advisors on homes in sustainable communities.
We have a Here are just a few of the attributes around 300,000 new network of 5 regions and 32 and values which help us to deliver homes for our customers housebuilding divisions strategically our CSR objectives: in places they choose to located in the communities in which they operate throughout the UK.
Vision to see the opportunities For almost 30 years Barratt has been beyond the present state Our development operations span the at the forefront of urban regeneration length and breadth of Britain and we Commitment and determination to in the UK and over 80% of our are currently developing on over 400 make the vision reality developments utilise brownfield land: sites, helping to meet housing Highly skilled management and in the South East the figure rises to demand in towns, cities and rural workforce with a track record of over 95%.
performance perspective, this year alone, we have recycled over 700 acres of Acceptance that solutions cannot brownfield land throughout Britain.
be provided by us alone Reliance on partnership, drawing Such work drives our unrivalled together the skills of the public, organic growth, our profitability and private and voluntary sectors the return generated for our shareholders.
In the last 10 years Listening to and understanding our volumes have increased from the needs of our customers, of 6,000 to the current 14,000 homes local authorities, our housing a year and our profits by an average association partners and the of 20% a year.
communities in which we work Outstanding designs, quality of construction, service to customers, value and choice 4 The Firs at Bexley Grange, Dartford - a recycled hospital site Areas of Operation Northern Region Regional office: Divisional Offices: Newcastle upon Tyne Ellon Edinburgh Leeds Northern Region consists of Newcastle upon Tyne 6 divisions with offices in: Falkirk York Central Region Regional office: Divisional Offices: Manchester Ellesmere Port Nottingham Manchester Central Region consists of Northampton 6 divisions with offices in: Sheffield Halesowen West Region Regional office: Divisional Offices: Bristol Bristol Exeter Maidenhead West Region consists of Coventry 6 divisions with offices in: Cardiff Southampton Southern Region Regional office: Divisional Offices: Brentford Stratford Chelmsford Watford Southern Region consists of Wallington 6 divisions with offices in: Guildford Brentford KingsOak Region Divisional Offices: Milton Keynes Regional offices: Coventry Halesowen Bristol Maidenhead Halesowen Hemel Hempstead KingsOak Region consists of Southampton 8 divisions with offices in: West Byfleet Maidenhead 5 Awards, Recognition and Highlights Award 2003 04 2002 03 2001 02 Gold: Gold: Gold: Best Luxury Development: St Leonards Best Luxury Development: Best Large Housebuilder Hill, Windsor The Grange, Oxshott Best Brownfield Development: Best Starter Home: The Coleridge Park, Hertford 3 Bronze Heights, Stratford, London Best Brownfield Development: 1 Silver Barrier Point, London E16 Annual awards organised by 1 Bronze What House?
magazine 1 Silver 1 Bronze 17 Awards: 12 Awards: 20 Awards: Ashford: Bolton: Bradford: Special Awards: Special Award: Bridge of Weir: Dorking: Efail Isaf: Park Farm, Frampton Cotterell, Wildfowl & Pierhead Lock, Isle of Dogs - Farnborough: Goffs Oak: Hull: Wetlands Trust Award English Partnership Award Newcastle: Northampton: Ottershaw: and also the Wildfowl Porthcawl: Purley: Rotherhithe: Regional Award: Tonbridge: Wapping: Warrington: Southern: Summerfields, Stanway & Wetlands Trust Award The Wirral: Woking Other Awards: Regional Awards: Basingstoke: Beckenham: Bushey: Croxley London: Pierhead Lock, Isle of Dogs Annual awards organised by the Green: Chester-le-Street: Glasgow: Haywards Scotland: Castle Park, Bothwell New Homes Marketing Board in partnership with the Daily Mail and the Heath: Kensington: Pinner: Southend: Southern: Park View, Southampton main sponsor Hanson Stonehaven: Sutton-in-Craven: Wakefield: Other Awards: Westminster: York Berkhamstead: Ellesmere Port: London EC4: Isle of Dogs: Poppleton: Virginia Water: Winchmore Hill, London N21 Major Housebuilder of Major Housebuilder of Major Housebuilder of the Year the Year the Year Finalist Finalist Winner Annual awards organised by Building magazine Supreme National Winner 5 Regional Awards 1 Regional Award Keith May 9 Seal of Excellence Awards 12 Seal of Excellence Awards 26 Quality Awards 1 Regional Award 35 Quality Awards 6 Seal of Excellence Awards Annual awards organised by the 30 Quality Awards National House Building Council Pebble Beach, Barry Dettingen Park, Camberley, Barrier Point, London E16 Selected Surrey Your New Home Awards Evening Standard Awards Winner - Best Exterior Design Best Development of the Year Award-winning Your New Home Awards What House?
Awards Mercedes Benz International Best Development for Family Bronze - Best Apartment Projects Living Runner-up Property Awards Best UK Development Thames Walk, Thamesmead Prince Regents Gate, What House?
Awards London NW1 Sustainable New Homes Best Apartment Bronze Awards What House?
Awards Best Interior Layout Bronze Best Partnership Development Silver Achieved Sustainability National Homebuilder Design Standard Awards Best Development of Royal Courts, Sunderland the Year Commendation: Best Organised by HBF in partnership 21st Century Living Awards Apartment Commendation Overall Winner with WWF Best Apartment Winner Maypole Green, Harlow National Homebuilder Design Awards 6 Best New House in England - Commendation CSR Policy Statement Barratt is a major housebuilder employees, provision for staff operating throughout the UK.
We advancement, as well as the provide new homes for all market protection of the Occupational sectors, including social housing for Health and Safety of the public and rent and shared ownership.
of our employees and contractors.
We are committed to legal We are actively seeking to engage our compliance in all our activities and customers and other stakeholders, strive for continuous improvement in especially our staff, contractors and all areas of our business.
We have national supply partners, who are adopted appropriate measures to central to the success of our CSR help us to monitor and improve that activity.
Our site managers won 5 top NHBC performance, as demonstrated in our Regional Awards for quality workmanship - annual Corporate Social Copies of this CSR policy statement more than any other housebuilder Responsibility CSR report.
may be obtained from our website and from published reports.
We At every stage of development, from invite your comments as a feasibility assessment, to the design, stakeholder and hope that they will construction and occupation of the assist us in keeping our annual homes we build, Barratt considers policy review up to date.
the economic, environmental and social issues relevant to the project.
David Pretty In the creation of sustainable development we seek to promote best practice in the acquisition of materials, in design standards, in the construction process and in the service provided to our customers as they take up occupation of the houses we build.
Regeneration of land used for other purposes is the cornerstone of our development activity.
Fundamental to our operation is profitability, which is linked to the potential impact of our development on the local economy and in the creation of attractive and healthy living environments.
Our responsibilities extend from the encouragement of social inclusion in local communities, to the development of the skills of our Bear Wharf, Reading 7 Environmental Policy Statement Barratt is a major housebuilder operating throughout the UK.
We provide new homes for all market sectors, including social housing for rent and shared ownership.
West of the Green, Bristol - a former hospital site The Group recognises its Site preparation and construction Maximise the use of natural responsibilities to assess and operations are closely monitored in features in our developments minimise the impact of its business conjunction with Local Authorities, wherever possible operations on the environment and to the NHBC and Environmental Minimise waste from our business prevent pollution.
We aim to work closely operations to compliance with all legal and with construction teams and other relevant requirements in all our contractors to address issues arising Work closely with our suppliers to activities, and we strive for from on-site activities, minimising ensure that care is taken in the continuous improvement in all areas any disruption to local communities selection of materials and of our business.
Wherever possible and encouraging efficiency.
products through regard for their we restore and enhance the natural environmental performance environments in which our The Group is an industry leader in developments are set.
the recovery and revitalisation of land Ensure that our building designs with a prior use, aware of the many meet efficient standards for consequent benefits to both the energy and water use environment and local communities.
Over 80% of the land developed by Reduce the risk of accidental the Group has had a prior use and pollution from our building much of it comes from reclaimed, operations former derelict land, reducing the Ensure in all land feasibility need for new infrastructure and reports that we highlight helping to improve the quality of life environmental issues at the and the environment in the communities we create.
earliest opportunity, so that appropriate measures can be In delivering these commitments we considered in line with best have established the following practice to avoid or minimise objectives: adverse environmental impact Copies of this Environmental Policy Statement may be obtained from our website and from published reports.
We invite your comments as a stakeholder and hope that they will assist us in keeping our annual policy review up to date.
David Pretty 8 Occupational Health & Safety Policy Statement operational activities, and that health The Group strives to and safety receives equal priority manage its operations with all other aspects of business management.
through trained and competent staff and to The content of this Policy is brought to the attention of all employees, safeguard, insofar as is who are expected to accept their reasonably practicable, the individual responsibility for working safely and adhering to safety rules, health, safety and welfare safe working procedures and the use of our employees and any of any protective equipment provided.
other persons likely to be affected by our activities.
The Group provides appropriate health and safety training to The prevention of employees to enable them to meet accidents involving the Groups objectives.
personal injury, and the Our health and safety manuals and reduction of work-related procedures are available at each workplace, and all or relevant parts ill health, are central to of them are provided to employees as our health and safety determined by their particular work activity.
The Group has established a Health and Safety Advisory Group, The Group is committed to providing comprising some of its most skilled a safe working environment through and experienced Directors and the proper planning, design and Managers, to help ensure that our implementation of the work in which Occupational Health and Safety it is involved.
In addition, we aim to Policy and management systems are achieve continuous improvement by regularly reviewed and kept up to setting objectives and targets against date.
which performance is audited and monitored.
"The Group operates a We are all individually responsible for ""Forward Through Quality"" employee the health, safety and welfare of award scheme which seeks to raise others, and the Group believes that a standards throughout all aspects of shared commitment to our objectives our business."
The monthly will help us create a safer working assessment of health and safety environment across our operations.
standards on site are an important part of the Forward Through Quality Copies of this Occupational Health scheme and every three weeks each and Safety Policy may be obtained site is subject to an independent from our website and published safety inspection undertaken by reports.
We invite your comments as qualified NHBC safety advisors, a stakeholder and hope they will providing a preventative site audit for assist us in keeping our annual all of our construction sites.
All Group Managing Directors are responsible for ensuring that this David Pretty Policy is implemented in all Specialist skills at Globe View, 9 London EC4 CSR Objectives & Targets 2004 2005 Programme To underpin our policy statements and to drive continuous improvement in our business, we have established sets of objectives and targets under the headings of CSR, Human Resources, the Environment and Occupational Health and Safety.
2004 2005 Objectives CSR O1 Improve our CSR monitoring arrangements with operating divisions and with suppliers to ensure that performance improvement is transparent and sustained.
O2 Establish certified management systems for environmental performance and for Occupational Health & Safety to consolidate the gains already achieved and to ensure continuous improvement.
Human Resources O3 Launch Employee Handbook, issuing personal copies to all current and all new employees.
O4 Review employee personnel processes across the Group and establish a Best Practice Process Guide for managers.
O5 Review current employee practices across the Group and establish Group-wide employee communications framework utilising a newly developed wide area network and intranet.
06 Expand careers webpages of current websites to advertise all job roles.
Environment O7 Maximise the use of natural features in our developments wherever possible.
O8 Minimise waste from our business operations.
O9 Work closely with our suppliers to ensure that care is taken in the selection of materials and products with regard to their environmental performance.
O10 Ensure that our building designs meet efficient standards for energy and water use.
O11 Reduce the risk of accidental pollution from our building operations.
O12 Ensure in all land feasibility reports that we highlight environmental issues at the earliest opportunity so that appropriate measures can be considered in line with best practice to avoid or minimise adverse environmental impact.
Occupational Health & Safety O13 Reduce accidents that cause injury to persons working on or visiting any of our places of work.
O14 Promote health safety and welfare as an integral part of management and leadership.
O15 Provide competent staff through a structured training programme.
O16 Develop close working relationships with our suppliers and sub-contractors.
O17 Control Health and Safety through more effective design.
O18 Introduce an audit compliance programme in relation to the Group Occupational Health and Safety Management System.
10 Wherever possible these are measurable or can at least be monitored, and we propose to report our performance against these in the coming year or if they change against revised objectives and targets.
2004 2005 Targets CSR T1 Agree a definitive set of key performance indicators with the operating divisions and with suppliers to provide the basis for recording future performance.
T2 Report performance annually against those indicators.
T3 Establish a system to be certified against the provisions of ISO 14001 for 3 operating divisions by March 2005.
T4 Establish a system to be certified against the provision of OHSAS 18001 for 1 operating division by December 2004.
Human Resources T5 Launch to all employees by October 2004.
T6 Develop and implement by August 2005.
T7 Establish communications framework by March 2005.
Environment T9 Produce a guidance note for use at development sites on what should be protected and why.
T10 Continue to reduce waste from our business operations and identify further opportunities for recycling.
T11 Encourage good environmental practice by continuing to segregate waste materials.
T12 Develop an environmental management system with detailed monitoring procedures and full auditable documentation.
T13 Focus on compliance with Duty of Care provisions at site level.
T14 Pilot two new specifications with proven environmental benefits.
T15 Review energy and water efficiency criteria for building design.
T16 Develop specific guidance for site operations.
Occupational Health & Safety T18 Meet the HSEs Revitalising Health & Safety Initiative targets.
T19 Develop closer working relationships with our contractors suppliers.
T20 Maintain a well-trained management team where a minimum of 70% of managers are trained in accordance with group standards.
"T21 Promote a "" Working Well Together"" programme with our suppliers and sub-contractors."
T22 Complete a revised Design Management Template within the next financial year.
T23 Audit every division within 2004 2005 financial year.
11 KPIs are an essential tool in the measurement of the performance of an organisation, and allow it to be benchmarked in relation to the rest of the industry.
Performance indicators, both qualitative and quantitative, are at the core of any sustainability report.
Best practice requires performance indicators to be grouped under three sections covering the economic, environmental, and social dimensions of sustainability.
Economic indicators concern an organisations impacts, both direct and indirect, on the economic resources of its stakeholders and on economic systems at local, national, and global levels.
Environmental indicators concern an organisations impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including ecosystems, land, air and water.
12 Key Performance Indicators KPIs Social indicators concern an have contacted each of our operating operating divisions and with organisations impacts on the social divisions, our principal suppliers and suppliers, which will provide the systems within which it operates, contractors, as well as other parties, basis for recording future e. g. labour practices, human rights, to ask for their help.
This is the first performance.
and broader social issues affecting time that this has been attempted in consumers, communities, and other a structured manner and it is a We have been successful in stakeholders.
Because many social process which we hope to collecting data for the majority of the issues are not easily quantifiable, consolidate.
In fact we have a target 45 indicators, a summary of which is best practice is to use qualitative T1 to agree a definitive set of key recorded by Region below.
performance indicators with the summary of the data collected from our suppliers is recorded elsewhere In preparation for this report we have in this report.
Should you wish to attempted to collect specific data on know more about the way in which the 45 indicators relevant to our the data was collected or the issues Incident rate business.
To assemble this data we involved, please contact us.
"100 90 Qualifications Qualifications & S Training Training and skills 80 70 60 50 40 Commercial 30 vehicle 20 Working hours movement 10 0 Sickne used Energy used Sickness absence Pay Mains Water Use Mains water use Pay Benchmark scores are a method by which the Operating units were requested to performance of Barratt in key areas can be Northern provide 2 groups of information for compared with that of other companies in the Central projects completed in the period 1st same industry sector as taken from: ""A West Complete Housing KPI Toolkit 2003, HMSO""."
July 2003 to 30th June 2004: Southern For example, a benchmark score of 70% Technical information and indicates that 70% of projects or companies are KingsOak Operational project information.
achieving equal or lower performance, and 30% Average The summary of the feedback by are achieving higher performance: the higher the benchmark score, the better the Region is as illustrated.
13 Environmental Aspects Sand Wharf, Cardiff Bay Those environmental aspects which We have considered all the are most important have been stages of our development identified using a recognised evaluation method and provide the activity from feasibility basis for our future performance assessment, design, targets set out in pages 10 and 11.
They include the following: construction and the subsequent occupation of The recovery and revitalisation of new developments by our land customers and have The use of materials, energy and water identified a range of The control of discharges to environmental aspects surface water from site operations relevant to our business, and the avoidance of accidental pollution which are described below.
Each of these The management of solid waste arising from site operations environmental aspects can The protection and enhancement give rise to an impact, of natural features on our which in turn can result in developments an environmental change Community aspects including noise, nuisance and annoyance to arising from our activities adjoining residents, traffic and services.
management and visual intrusion Aspects relating to the natural environment including fauna, flora and landscape 14 Recovery and Revitalisation of Land for Urban Regeneration Urban regeneration on brownfield Lastly, throughout the long history of The recovery and sites is not just about managing the business Barratt has been a revitalisation of land is environmental risk.
Increasingly leader in the provision of social planning conditions require us to housing and was a pioneer of the one of the most important include in our schemes high levels of concept of social housing environmental impacts of mixed use, including commercial, partnerships.
We actively work in retail, leisure, recreational, partnership with local authorities and our business.
For educational and other amenities housing associations to produce decades, Barratt has been which add significantly to the much needed homes for rent, shared financial and commercial risks of ownership and low cost sale, acquiring and reclaiming development.
The management of including key worker housing and redundant, often risk, environmental, commercial and housing for the elderly and people financial, is critical to the success of with special needs.
contaminated, land and our CSR strategy.
We have a proven recycling it to create track record in the effective In the last six years we have management of such risks and all increased our output of social exciting new housing schemes are subject to rigorous housing by 250% from 376 homes environments.
feasibility and financial appraisal in 1997 98 to 1,308 in 2003 04. against standard Barratt Group Since 1990 we have built over Over 700 acres of brownfield land requirements ahead of 11,000 homes for our housing were recycled in the year: commencement.
implementation of the ISO 14001 Equivalent to 1.9 acres of environmental management system redundant land recycled for every and the development of our CSR day of the year Team will help to strengthen our risk management systems in the year On current volumes we build over ahead.
250 new homes each week, more than 200 of which are built on Our success in urban regeneration brownfield sites and land recovery cannot be achieved on our own.
We actively Around 11,500 homes were built work with dynamic teams of on brownfield sites in the year architects, planning experts and environmental consultants to produce Our skill and experience in salvaging custom designed developments, both difficult sites in urban locations, classic and modern, on every scale combined with an ability to design, from small infill schemes to entire fund and deliver higher density and town centre developments.
high-rise developments, mean we can often provide outstanding housing solutions where others Park Farm, Bristol - Wildfowl and Wetlands cannot.
We have acquired and Trust Award winner developed management expertise to enable us to overcome the most challenging technical problems.
Working with our specialist external advisors, our environmental assessments enable us to identify and manage environmental impacts in the construction process.
15 Waste Arising from Operations Wastefile collect waste tonnage data Plans for the future Since 2001 we have for each Division under the headings worked with Wastefile UK of general, compactable, inert, In addition to the objective set to timber, plaster and other.
Once the minimise waste from our business as our waste management waste is segregated and recorded it operations we are now pursuing the facilitator on all our is then possible to make following initiatives: improvements in reducing, recycling development sites.
Plasterboard and gypsum-based Together we have wastes contribute to the majority To help us comply with the established a clearly of our landfill waste.
"Through provisions of our ""duty of care"" at all Wastefile we are investigating the defined waste operational sites we have use of proven technology to implemented a carefully controlled management policy, which implement a collection and auditable waste transfer system, has been incorporated recycling system for gypsumwhich traces the waste from its based products creation to storage and segregation, within our planned targets: collection and disposal or recycling We are investigating the see pages 10 and 11. and re-use."
"application of the ""Fold-a-Skip"" logistical system at all Group developments to improve on our Performance to date capability to segregate waste at site level Together we have vigorously implemented these aims and Barratt has been working with objectives at all sites, and can Glacier ARM to investigate the consequently point to a number of production of tailor-made significant achievements including: replacements for alumina, iron, shale and sand to further reduce 99% of the inert waste from our wastage from our construction sites is recycled as hard core base activities for roads and pavements Barratt is collaborating with a 100% of timber waste is team of technologists to convert reclaimed at one of 3 UK facilities the sources of waste material into 100% of paper and card, which is composite products segregated, is baled for transport In partnership with Wastefile UK to paper processors we are developing an 100% of metal waste, which is Environmental Business Growth segregated, is transferred to a Action Programme involving licensed waste facility for Advantage West Midlands, the recycling Black Country Chamber and Business Link, EnviroInovate, the 76% 39,156 tonnes of waste is Learning Skills Council to provide recycled and the remaining 24% recycled materials as sustainable 12,365 tonnes of waste goes products for the construction directly to landfill industry 16 Employment & Diversity Scheme CSCS."
CSCS will cover all The Group currently has a of our construction site-based total of 4,399 employees, employees from management to 25% of whom are female.
apprentices by June 2005, almost 50% of our headcount.
With 530 apprentices employed by our divisions, The Group operates a three-year apprentice training programme and Barratt has the largest we are the industry leader in such apprentice training training.
We currently have 530 apprentices and we are continuing to programme in the Above: Graduate trainee Alex Scott expand the programme.
housebuilding industry, Below: Bristol-based apprentices providing key skills training We are actively seeking graduates to fill trainee positions.
Of the 55 over a period of three years graduate trainees we employ, 25% in areas such as bricklaying, are female.
We have raised our profile amongst graduates in carpentry and plumbing, and association with Graduate Prospects.
is making a major Our aim is to develop our company contribution to the next careers webpages to facilitate recruitment of graduates and other generation of construction employees.
As part of this years Three-Year During 2004 we reviewed all of our Strategic Plan, the Group Board has In 2005 we will be developing a fully current employment policies across decided to review Management integrated HR and payroll IT system the Group to develop a Group-wide Development Programmes across the which will allow us to maintain data set of policies and procedures which business.
on the diversity of our employees.
have been collated into an Employee Data will be gathered through a Handbook.
The Handbook was One target for 2004 05 is to review survey of all employees, the structure launched during September 2004 to our current employee communication of which is currently under all Group employees.
processes and establish a Group-wide development.
The One of the policies in the Employee objective behind this activity is to Also in the forthcoming year we are Handbook is an updated Equal ensure all of the good work we are going to examine our Opportunities and Harassment Policy developing and implementing is personnel employment procedures which emphasises the Groups shared with our employees.
As part across the Group and develop a Best commitment to ensuring that its work of the improvement of Group Practice Guide for Managers.
This is places are free from unlawful communications, a Wide Area aimed at embedding Best Practice discrimination, harassment or Network is currently being provided procedures to cover the employment victimisation, whether on direct or which will enable us to establish a life cycle of all employees.
Group intranet to further enhance our communications capability.
The Group is committed to the provision of training and development which addresses the requirements of the workforce at all levels of the organisation.
To realise this goal the Group has a well established Annual Training Plan process.
Working in close association with the CITB and the NHBC, a wide range of standard training is provided.
We have taken our commitment to training and competence one step further this year by making a commitment to the Barratt is the industry leader in training with over 530 apprentices including these from our 17 Construction Skills Certification East London division Advance Housing Limited The production facility is equipped All Advance produced homes now Advance Housing Limited, with the very latest in modular offexceed Building Regulation a joint venture between site technology and will be capable standards and are subject to rigorous of producing complete homes testing procedures, including the Barratt Group and utilising these modern methods a acoustic checks, thermal efficiency Terrapin, the pioneer precombination of pre-finished pods and and air-tightness.
wall panels at a rate of up to 10 engineering specialists, per day when in full production.
represents a new concept Initially, however, output will be Construction Phase Benefits gradually increased as production in housebuilding which techniques and on-site construction Controlled conditions and a uses off-site manufactured procedures are refined.
We plan to process approach to deliver around 300 new homes in the steel-framed components.
manufacturing allows much better year subject to achieving the control and monitoring of waste, After several years of necessary planning approvals.
and allows improved opportunities research Advance has for re-use and recycling.
The Against the background of the Barker facility is currently monitoring commenced production Review into housing under-supply utilities, water usage, and and a range of Government from a state-of-the-art packaging used per house, and a initiatives, including specific facility in Daventry and waste reduction programme is Housing Corporation funding, being implemented designed to encourage increased use the first homes have now of modern construction methods, CO2 emissions from the period been completed.
Advance Housing represents a further June 03 - April 04 are 10,670 kg development in UK housebuilding CO2 per house built.
It demonstrates the should reduce as throughput forward vision of Barratt and its increases commitment to eradicating problems which have constrained the sector for Water usage from the production far too long.
From the outset our facility over the period March 03 - objectives were simplicity in the 3 March 04 was 594 m, or manufacturing process, early 3 approximately 11.4 m per house weather-tight shells, high levels of built energy efficiency, zero defects, less waste and safety and speed in the There are less transport construction process in short, a movements to the construction high quality, high performance site, thus reducing congestion and product and that is what has been air pollution and significantly achieved.
improving safety issues and levels of disruption caused by typical The quality controlled manufacturing levels of traffic on a traditional process allows the following building site specification to be easily achieved: There is a huge reduction in Sound reduction up to 57 db construction time on site and, as Advance Homes are built using modular manufacturing technology most of the fabrication process is Full Building Regulation Approval undertaken off-site, the nuisance SAP ratings exceeding 100 factors to local residents such as Full BRE Approval noise, dust and vibration are substantially reduced NHBC Approval Housing Corporation Accreditation 18 The production facility at Daventry Use Phase Benefits Much improved acoustic properties resulting in enhanced Very high energy efficiency ratings living conditions, particularly in are achieved due to precision terraces and semi-detached control over the construction houses and, in due course, in the process, resulting in no gaps or apartments we are currently holes in the building envelope developing Using the Governments Standard This is an entirely new housing Assessment Procedure SAP for concept being developed by two energy ratings, ranging from 1 companies at the forefront of their very poor to 120 excellent, our respective fields.
It is attracting nine standard house types achieve considerable interest from the ratings of between 101-103. housing association sector, which will Ratings have also been calculated gain Government funding benefits using the National Home Energy through the Housing Corporation, Rating, achieving between 9.9 intended to encourage the increased and 10 out of 10, and the Carbon use of off-site manufacturing Index Method, achieving between techniques.
CO2 emissions range from 32.2-35.4 3 kg m yr 19 Occupational Health & Safety of 928.
This is based upon the H&S Performance Index CHaSPI as Management Systems number of incidents per 100,000 a tool to benchmark our systems employees including subagainst others in the construction Over the last 3 years the contractors see Figure 1.
an ongoing objective to reduce Barratt Group has accidents further.
implemented a companyPreventative Site Audits The highest risks have been wide Occupational Health identified as follows: A cornerstone of our OHSMS is a and Safety Management preventative audit programme of all Slips, trips and falls our construction sites undertaken on System OHSMS with Manual handling a tri-weekly basis, resulting in over supporting documentation.
8,000 preventative site audits per Falling from a height year.
An independent body the NHBC, who also audit other UK Plant, equipment and lifting Our work in this critical area has housebuilders has conducted the operations transformed health and safety audits for the last three years.
standards and performance across Hitting a stationary object During the inspection process points our operation.
In the last three years are scored for identified hazards on Traffic management Barratt site safety standards, as sites, so the lower the score the measured independently by NHBC better the result.
The results from site safety audit inspections, have The hazards associated with each this audit inspection process improved ahead of other UK activity are identified and the risk demonstrate that Barratt health and housebuilders using the NHBC categorised as high, medium or low.
safety performance has improved service.
The progress made is a Control measures are identified and beyond that of the average UK credit to our dedicated health and implemented for all medium and housebuilder using the NHBC safety team and all our operational high risks.
Over the last three years our staff.
comprehensive and wide ranging average score has reduced from 20 including measures such as fall to 6.7 see Figure 2 and is amongst The system is based on the Health protection systems, safe systems of and Safety Executives model of the best in the industy.
In addition, work, training, supervision and HSG65 and includes: policy page 9 the performance of our five regions personal protective equipment.
and objectives and targets pages has also become much more 10-11, risk assessments, consistent as best practice has been Next year we intend to review further organisational arrangements, training rolled out.
the design of our buildings to make and development, communication, them intrinsically safer during operational control, emergencies, construction, use and demolition.
We monitoring and reporting, inspections will also review our safety Organisational Responsibilities and management review.
Since its management system against the introduction there have been requirements of the specification Responsibilities for health and safety significant improvements in Group OHSAS 18001, fully introduce our are fully identified in the OHSMS.
health and safety performance system audit compliance programme, The Group Board is responsible for achieving an incident rate in 2003 4 and take part in the HSE Corporate overall Group Health and Safety Figure 1: Incident Rate 2000-2004 Figure 2: NHBC Audit Results 3000 25 2500 20 2000 15 1500 10 1000 5 500 Improved performance 0 0 2000 1 2001 2 2002 3 2003 4 2001 2002 2003 2004 Year Barratt Av.
UK Housebuilder 20 Note that data in figure 1 from 2000 03 is based on estimates whereas 2003 04 is based upon accurately obtained figures.
per 100,000 personnel Filming a training video for a new Group Fall Protection System Policy and Standards, and the Group four years.
So far 70% of site In order to reinforce our internal Corporate Director reports directly to managers have gone through this communication we are introducing the Group Board in relation to health programme.
a new internal health and safety and safety performance on a monthly award scheme within the basis.
At an operational level each In addition, all directors and company Divisional Board reviews health and managers have attended an IOSH safety performance and training on a Managing Safely for Senior In 2004 we began issuing Safety monthly basis.
Specific procedures Management Course and received Newsletters to communicate live and requirements are cascaded training on the Barratt H&S issues directly to site staff throughout the organisation via line Management System.
Health and management supervisors and to staff.
"safety inductions are mandatory for Each of the five regions employs a everyone working on our sites and a Previous Incidents Health and Safety Manager to fully illustrated pocket handbook provide specialist support and ""Safe Working Procedures on Barratt Legal breaches and notices served by advice."
"Sites"" is about to be issued to all the HSE are reported in the table site workers and contractor below, which illustrates a downward Procedures are in place to ensure operatives."
trend in the overall number of HSE compliance with the CDM interventions see Figure 3.
Group health and safety At site level: standards are mandatory for We are now actively promoting the contractors, who are assessed and Construction Skills Certification inducted prior to commencing work, Scheme, which records a issued with a Safety Code for recognised level of trade-specific Subcontractors and are subject to competence and identifies this the full Barratt audit inspection achievement with a card system.
Contractors are included in all of our health and Testing for this scheme takes safety performance indicators.
"We place electronically at driving test have a target next year to promote a centres throughout the country ""Working Well Together"" programme We have developed an in-house with our suppliers and contractors."
video on a new Group-wide fall protection system, which serves to H&S Training, Competence and reduce the risks associated with Communication roof work.
This video has been Laurence Dent fourth from left Corporate distributed throughout all 32 Director, Marion Rothnie far left Assistant Barratt has one of the best health divisions to raise awareness of the Company Secretary Human Resources, Art Perks and safety training programmes in Health & Safety Consultant fourth from right various protection measures we the housebuilding industry.
All site and the five Regional Health & Safety Managers.
Next year, we intend to managers are required to attend a 5- day CITB H&S site management produce videos on other high-risk course within 12 months of joining topics, including traffic Barratt, plus a 2-day refresher every management Figure 3: Interventions July 01 - June 02 July 02 - June 03 July 03 - June 04 Breaches 41 4 Prohibition Notices 24 15 4 Improvement Notices 77 3 This data includes both Barratt Homes Ltd and KingsOak Homes Ltd. 21 National Supplier Arrangements Supplier delegates at the CSR workshop Build Center Wolseley UKs Timber MARLEY - We have a long history of & Builders Merchant business has Concrete roof tiles working closely with a secured a national deal with Barratt Marley has conducted LCA studies to supply I-beams to all of their UK number of key suppliers, for all of their roof tiles.
Eleven I-beam branches are who have a significant currently operational, with one more Business activities with an in the pipeline.
The PEFC input on the way in which environmental impact included raw Programme for the Endorsement of we do business.
material usage, energy use, Forest Certification Scheme certified emissions, transport and end-of-life that I-beam, manufactured by impacts and products.
Improvement Finnforest UK Ltd, is compliant to opportunities focused on raw We organised a Corporate Social numerous recognised standards such material initiatives, better process Responsibility Workshop for 20 of as Q Mark, CE Marking and control, improved product design, Eurocode.
The I-beam not only has our major suppliers in Newcastle on increased links with ISO 14001, and environmental and quality 3rd June, inviting them to comment marketing opportunities.
credentials, it also has health and on our various policy statements.
safety advantages as it is lighter and They were asked to suggest material Marley Roofing concluded that LCA easier to handle.
for this report, and to tell us about studies and independent certification with BRE had proved to be a step in their current activities in the field of Through Build Centers Chain of the right direction.
Custody certification programme, will include a complete review of branches are supplying everprofiles in the autumn of 2004, The three following examples are an increasing volumes of PEFC and FSC certification of key products, a reindication of the success of the Forest Stewardship Council launch of environmental literature, Workshop, and the contribution that products into the market.
This, in and the targeting of improvements at suppliers are making in helping conjunction with Wolseley UKs each factory to further reduce the Ecopoint scores of products.
Responsible Timber Purchasing Barratt improve its overall Policy, will ensure that increasing performance.
volumes of sustainable timber are WOLSELEY UK - available to customers within their I-beam flooring systems, General supply chain.
Wolseley UK is also in Timber & Building Materials the process of introducing ISO 14001 to its branches in the UK, Wolseley provided copies of their one of very few merchants to do so.
Health and Safety and Environmental Policy Statements, as well as their Quality Policy Statement.
WHIRLPOOL - Home appliances Whirlpool provided a copy of their 2003 Summary Annual Report, as well as including data covering energy use for ovens, and energy water consumption for washing products.
"On cooking, the data shows 88.76% of ovens ""B"" rated, with no ""A"" rated for 2003."
"During the early part of 2004 Whirlpool launched a new range of ovens, and forecast that in 2004 99.53% of ovens will be ""B"" rated or better, with 77.86% being ""A"" rated."
22 Governance & Risk At Regional and Divisional level our In terms of the management, Since January 2003 Group Regional Chairmen, in conjunction monitoring and audit of our Corporate Governance with each Divisional Board, are environmental performance, we see responsible for the implementation this as a natural extension of the role procedures have been and delivery of our CSR objectives of our Safety Managers.
comprehensively reviewed and targets as determined by the Group Board.
The work programme for the CSR and documented in our Team in the coming years is fully Group Corporate As identified elsewhere in this report, delineated in the Objectives and we are currently developing our Targets Section of this report and Governance Manual.
A management systems to help progress will be monitored and full statement of improve our overall CSR reported on a quarterly basis to the performance.
The model for this Group and Executive Boards.
A governance compliance, process will be based on similar particular priority for the current year having regard to Section 1 management principles to those used is the development of the very effectively over the last 3 years internationally recognised of the 1998 Combined to comprehensively improve our environmental management system Code and the revised Occupational Health and Safety ISO 14001, which we are currently Management System.
rolling out to one Division in every Combined Code, which Region.
ISO 14001 will then be takes effect for reporting A CSR Team chaired by the Group passed down to all 32 Group Corporate Director has been Divisions at the earliest opportunity.
periods commencing on or established and comprises senior To assist in this process the Group after 1st November 2003, management representatives from has acquired a bespoke software core disciplines across our business.
system developed by SEQM which is set out in our Annual Our external advisors, SEQM, will will enable us to manage and Report for the financial provide specialist advice and disseminate through our IT network guidance to the CSR Team.
Our 5 all appropriate documentation for the year ended 30th June Regional Group Health and Safety ISO 14001 Management System.
Managers are to be developed to also assume responsibility for the management and monitoring of In the context of CSR the Group environmental performance and will Board of Directors has full report to the Group Corporate responsibility for determining Director in this extended role as they strategy, objectives and targets and currently do on health and safety.
the Executive Board responsibility for implementation and delivery.
The Group Corporate Director has specific executive responsibility for all CSR issues and reports to both the Group and Executive Boards in this capacity.
23 24 Kings Reach, Reading - a flagship urban regeneration project Stakeholders Effective engagement with our in all divisions, including multi-skilled to ensure best value.
We place a high customer service operatives and a value on our contractors and actively stakeholders is an essential ingredient bespoke customer care training engage with them to promote health of our CSR performance.
The programme is being rolled out to all of and service standards across our production of this first report enables our frontline sales and construction developments.
Increasingly our us to demonstrate how we are seeking staff.
Our Home Owner Surveys training and communication to place more information in the public measure customer satisfaction levels programmes are being extended to domain, which is readily accessible by and from 1st September 2004 are include our contractors and operatives.
being undertaken independently by an external market research company.
Employees Below is a summary of our key Customer responses are carefully stakeholders and their relationship to monitored and are used to inform and Barratt was established in 1958 and the business.
prioritise future customer service now employs 4,399 staff.
All customer service employ local labour and are committed National and Local Government requests and complaints are logged to the training of apprentices, and to and monitored and detailed ongoing staff and management We are committed both to complying management reports on customer care development.
with all regulatory requirements and performance and Home Owner Survey also to consulting government in the results are reviewed and actioned by Non Governmental Organisations policy development process to play an the Executive Board on a monthly NGOs active part in working towards basis.
We are currently in dialogue with NGOs, including our Housing Communities Customers Association partners, who are We aim to consult local communities promoting sustainability in UK We provide over 14,000 new houses and their representatives at an early housebuilding.
A key response is to each year and actively seek out and stage in each development project and publish this report, putting more listen to the views of our customers maintain open communication information on our performance in the through our Home Owner Surveys.
channels throughout our development public domain.
We are also committed to During the year a major review of the provision of affordable housing and Investors Group Customer Care procedures and redevelopment of brownfield sites to service levels has been undertaken by the benefit of local communities, and The Board believes in effective a dedicated working party of senior actively engage our housing association management of investor managers from across our business and local authority stakeholders in this communications and has recently chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
developed our investor relations webA range of measures designed to site to provide up-to-date information strengthen our customer care and Suppliers & Contractors on our financial and company service standards have been performance.
A programme of introduced, including an updated We have national supplier communication with the investment Customer Care Manual, the arrangements with a number of key community is also underway.
strengthening of customer care teams suppliers and maintain open dialogue Employees National and Local Government Customers Non Governmental Organisations NGOs Communities Suppliers & Contractors Investors 25 GRI Content Index The Global Reporting Initiative GRI is an independent institution whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable Sustainability Reporting Guidelines.
In 2002 GRI produced Sustainability Reporting Guidelines which outline the core content that is broadly relevant to all organisations regardless of size, sector and location.
Please note that the guidelines are part of a wider framework and are for voluntary use by organisations.
Global Reporting Initiative GRI Content Index GRI Section number and heading description Report section Page 1 Vision & Strategy Chief Executive P 3 1.1 Statement - issues: stakeholder impacts: values: objectives Stakeholders P 25 CSR Policy P 7 Objectives & Targets P 10-11 1.2 CEO statement - highlights: commitment: targets: engagement Chief Executive P 3 Awards, Recognition & Highlights P 6 Objectives & Targets P 10-11 2 Profile About us P 4 Area of Operation P 5 2.1 Name of reporting organisation Front Cover P 1 2.2 Products, services and outsourcing About us P 4 2.3 Operational structure and the organisation About us P 4 2.4 Major divisions, subsidiaries and joint ventures Advance Housing Ltd P 18-19 2.5 Areas of operation About us P 5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form About us P 4 & 47 2.7 Nature of markets served About us P 4 2.8 Scale : employees: products: net sales: equality: value added: total assets: total revenues: regional revenues services: regional costs: employees by regionEmployment P 17 2.9 List of stakeholders, attributes and relationships Stakeholders P 25 Report Scope Verification P 44 2.10 Contact person s email and web address Verification P 44 2.11 Financial calendar reporting year Verification P 44 2.12 Date of most recent previous report N A 2.13 Boundaries of the report About this report P 2 2.14 Significant changes in size, structure, ownership, products services N A 2.15 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries for comparability N A 2.16 Effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports N A 26 Report Profile 2.17 Areas where GRI is not applied and reasons N A 2.18 Criteria used in accounting for sustainable costs and benefits Key Performance P 12-13 Indicators 2.19 Significant changes from previous years in measurement method N A 2.20 Policies to provide assurance on accuracy, completeness, reliability Verification P 44 2.21 Policy on providing independent assurance for the report Verification P 44 2.22 Report users accessibility to additional information and reports About this report P 2 3 Governance Structure and Management Systems Structure and Governance Governance & Risk P 23 3.1 Major committees under the board of directors and responsibilities Governance & Risk P 23 3.2 Determination of independence and percentage of non - executive members Governance & Risk P 23 3.3 Determining board expertise for strategy and sustainability Governance & Risk P 23 3.4 Board level processes for identification of sustainability risk and opportunities Governance & Risk P 23 3.5 Executive compensation and achievement in non-financial goals Governance & Risk P 23 3.6 Organisational structure and key economic, social and environmental roles Governance & Risk P 23 3.7 Internal economic, social and environmental policies and implementation Environmental Policy P 8 Health & Safety Policy P 9 3.8 Board of directors and shareholders mechanism for engagement Stakeholders, P 25 Governance & Risk P 23 Stakeholder Engagement 3.9 Identification of major stakeholders and selection for engagement Stakeholders, P 25 Governance & Risk P 23 3.10 Approaches to stakeholders consultation, type, frequency and group Stakeholders, P 25 3.11 Stakeholders consultation key issues Stakeholders, P 25 3.12 Use of stakeholder information and relation to performance indicators Stakeholders, P 25 Broader Policies and Management Systems 3.13 Precautionary principle application and risk control Governance & Risk P 23 3.14 Voluntary charters, principles, initiatives and subscriptions Stakeholders P 25 3.15 Membership to business sector and international organisations National Supplier Arrangements P 22 Awards, Recognition & Highlights Awards, Recognition & Highlights P 6 3.16 Supply chain management policies and product and service stewardship National Supplier Arrangements P 22 3.17 Management indirect sustainability impacts from activities National Supplier Arrangements P 22 3.18 Office location expansion or closures Area of Operation P 5 3.19 Procedures for sustainability targets, programmes, training, audit etc.
Objectives & Targets P 10-11 3.20 Certification of management systems Objectives & Targets P 10-11 4 Performance Indicators Key Performance Indicators P 12-13 27 WWF Assessment Criteria WWF-UK is running a campaign with listed housebuilders.
Each of the 13 WWF is an independent the aim of bringing sustainability into companies in the sector was worldwide conservation the mainstream of UK housing.
The assessed by WWF-UK against a campaign is called One Million selected list of 18 criteria, which are organisation, with an Sustainable Homes OMSH.
listed in the table below.
operation in the UK, In January 2004 WWF-UK produced The assessment was based upon WWF-UK.
the results of an assessment of information made publicly available public disclosure of sustainability in August 2003. issues of 13 of the UKs largest WWF Assessment Criteria WWF Heading Report section & Page 1 Risk Management Governance & Risk P 23 2 Board Commitment CSR Policy Statement P 7 3 Sustainability Policies CSR Policy Statement P 7 4 Disclosure Verification P 44 5 Management Systems Objectives and Targets P 10-11 6 Commitment to eco-homes Advance Housing P 18-19 7 Ecology Environment P 14 8 Climate Change Environment P 14 9 Water KPI & Environment P 12-13 10 Domestic Waste Environment P 14 11 Transport KPI & Environment P 12-13 12 Procurement National Supplier Arrangements P 22 13 Construction Waste Waste Arising P 16 14 Health and Safety Occupational Health & Safety P 20-21 15 Considerate Construction CCS Stakeholders P 25 16 Employment Employment P 17 17 Sustainable Communities Stakeholders P 25 18 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders P 25 28 Crown Heights, Basingstoke - this major urban regeneration project provided 288 homes plus retail and leisure facilities Case Studies Our commitment to urban regeneration stretches over three decades long before it became fashionable and we were the first major housebuilder to take on the complex challenges of inner cities 29 Buckshaw Village Chorley, Lancashire When completed Buckshaw Village reality.
This 400 million joint will be an environmentally Around 35 per cent of the land will venture to create a sustainable urban village, which be developed for housing from embraces the key concepts of mixedaffordable first-time buyer homes to visionary, sustainable use development, high environmental large family houses 31 per cent community is the largest standards, and a reduced reliance on has been designated for business car use with a serious commitment and commercial use and the brownfield development of to public transport and the provision remainder as green space, retaining its kind in the North West.
of an effective footpath and cycle natural flora and fauna.
The project is transforming a 395- In total, some 28,000 trees will be acre former Royal Ordnance Factory The project will take up to 15 years planted, 4,500 of them saplings site to provide around 2,000 new to complete.
Barratt and our partner grown from seeds or cuttings homes, business park and other developers, Redrow, have worked collected from the site before commercial uses with employment closely with former landowner BAE clearance work began.
The volunteer for up to 5,900 people, district Systems, as well as Chorley and project was organised by factory shopping centre, railway station, South Ribble Borough Councils and employees, with the help of local primary school, community facilities, other statutory bodies, to take schools, scouts, guides and the sports amenities and landscaped Buckshaw Village from design to Brothers of Charity Services, whose open areas.
30 horticulture unit at nearby Lisieux At the launch of Matrix Park a Hall offers a training service for pioneering business development people with learning disabilities.
which forms part of the site David Borrow, MP for South Ribble, Community facilities include sites for said: Re-using former a health centre and new primary industrial land is just what school, plus a financial contribution the government to the cost of building the school.
wants to see and There will also be contributions reduces the towards an extension to Euxton pressure to build on Library and youth facilities in the greenfield sites.
By allowing area, together with improved cycle local firms to expand and network links aimed at providing attracting firms from outside the safer routes to school.
Other area, Buckshaw Village will underpin amenities include a community the success of the local economy.
centre, bowling green, sports pitches and changing rooms.
Matrix Park opening right to left Harold Walker, Barratt Group Deputy Chief Executive, Neil Fitzsimmons Managing Director of Redrow PLC, Lindsay Hoyle MP and David Borrow MP Around 28,000 new trees will be planted 31 Hertford Coleridge Park The development was named Best Barratt also gave financial help to This innovative Brownfield Development in Britain in improve the Lea Valley Green Route regeneration of a the 2003 What House?
The and for new bus stops, and provided judges report described it as hugely a childrens play area.
redundant factory site less impressiveBarratt has created both than a mile from the town a community and a bold, The site itself presented complex contemporary architectural technical and planning challenges, centre has brought high statement.
with severe constraints of landfall, quality, value-for-money The 7-acre site was previously ground degradation and compaction.
occupied by the famous Addis Barratt cleared away the old homes to Hertford and housewares factory, which closed in industrial buildings and areas of made a positive 1993.
It had been the subject of hardstanding but also retained and several unsuccessful planning restored a number of listed buildings contribution to the local applications before it was acquired in poor condition.
environment and social by Barratt, whose scheme for a wide mix of 218 new homes, including 55 Architects DHA Architecture were fabric.
for rent and shared ownership, plus commissioned to produce a offices and leisure facilities, was development that: approved.
Retained a link to the 1930s Planners remarked: The listed office buildings development represents a good Provided for different housing solution.
It provides a welcome needs amount of employment, generating Minimised the visual impact of floorspace and significant brownfield cars housing provision of good quality.
Provided a transition from business to housing uses 32 The Hirst family bought at Coleridge Park These objectives were successfully achieved.
Buildings rise from 3 storeys to near 6 storeys and the mews form of development allowed for an opportunity to incorporate a central landscape feature.
The designs for the new homes reflect the Addis plants original 1930s architecture with glazed staircase enclosures and brickwork of contrasting colours.
They are set in landscaped grounds around a central tree-lined boulevard and raised terraces, with a focal water feature providing a striking solution to a previously unkempt and inefficient brownfield site.
As the scheme is high density, with a mix of 1 & 2 bedroom apartments and 3 & 4 bedroom townhouses, there was a need to minimise the amount of surface car parking.
This was solved by providing a parking deck below the apartment buildings, reducing the visual level of parking by 60%.
33 Leeds Brewery Wharf As part of the 100m project, The 4.5-acre site had a variety of This flagship mixed-use Barratt are building 325 riverside previous uses, latterly as part of the development one of the apartments, which combine the Tetley Brewery, and a fully validated latest building techniques, energyremediation strategy was successfully largest ever undertaken in efficient products and the latest carried out.
This was carefully Leeds city centre has advances in acoustic treatments.
monitored by the environmental agencies due to the close proximity transformed a derelict Most have a balcony or terrace, of the River Aire.
wasteland into a vibrant providing an attractive outlook over the river, cityscape or the central Statutory consultations took place new community of homes, landscaped courtyard areas, which during the planning process and offices, retailers, bars, have been created to promote a separate meetings were held with the community atmosphere on the Leeds Civic Trust, local council restaurants and a hotel.
members and adjoining landowners to discuss the proposals.
Brewery Wharf is a prime site situated on the south bank of the To advertise, inform and stimulate River Aire and has been developed interest, special websites were jointly by Barratt and Brewery Wharf created, information boards erected Leeds Ltd. on key areas of the site, and a model of the development produced for a public consultation exhibition.
34 Contact names and newsletters were distributed to the local community and businesses, providing updates on the schemes progress.
The project has created a significant number of jobs during and after construction and the contractor employed by Barratt to build the apartments won a Considerate Contractor Award.
Storage for 185 cycles is provided on site, meeting the citys green transport requirements, and enhancements to the area include a new river wall and walkway leading to the city centre.
A significant financial contribution was also made to the citys proposed Supertram system, which is planned to run adjacent to the site.
35 Axiom Feltham Town Centre, West London Our regeneration of the run-down Feltham town centre which will provide over 800 new homes and 400,000 sq ft of commercial space seeks to achieve a sustainable development and to provide a better quality of life for residents.
This major mixed use scheme has therefore sought to balance social, economic and environmental issues.
On such projects it is imperative that Construction began in January 2004 Before construction work began an extensive consultation is carried out and when complete there will be Environmental Audit was carried out with all stakeholders and associated 807 new homes, including 264 and a remediation scheme carried interest groups, together with the affordable homes 72 for rent and out.
The redevelopment involved the public, to ensure that all are 192 shared equity homes for key demolition and clearance of old apprised of the goals and the workers.
Apartments will have buildings, with concrete salvaged challenges relating to the scheme.
At balconies and roof gardens, cycle and crushed for hardcore and reFeltham we consulted with the: storage in garage areas, and will be used on site and resale.
built where practical to Secure by Local Authority housing, Design standards.
On site we operate with our planning and leisure services contractors an integrated departments There will also be shops, offices, and construction waste management a hotel, plus a health centre, library ICWM procedure where waste GLA to discuss the level and tenure of affordable housing and nursery.
Over 90% of the materials are segregated and commercial space was pre-let prior returned for re-cycling.
Where Residents through exhibitions, to works starting and has attracted possible we specify materials from regular newsletters and major retailers whose presence will sustainable sources for use on site.
consultation on home designs, management issues and security breathe new life into the area and Procurement of sub-contract services will encourage the development of and suppliers is carried out locally Local Groups the Feltham smaller retailers, who will benefit as where these facilities are available.
Forum, made up from the local a direct result of blue-chip business community, to discuss the economic regeneration companies investing in the area.
benefits and employment opportunities 36 This is our second phase of development in Feltham the first provided 193 new homes and we are also working on another major mixed use regeneration scheme in nearby Hounslow town centre.
Above: Computer generated image illustrates the scale of the scheme 37 Park 21 Eastleigh, Hampshire This site, formerly the Pirelli Cable plant, represents one of the largest brownfield opportunities in the South, where we are creating a high-density, mixed-use scheme of 650 homes with a central circular open space, plus 80,000 sq ft of offices and 14 live-work units.
38 Pirelli Cables occupied the 50-acre minimising vehicle movements and In addition, education contributions site but, as the market for electricity landfill.
There was a certain amount have led to improvements to local cables declined, decided to sell 30 of contamination on the site and schools, and transport contributions acres.
Initial proposals for a DIY some of this was dealt with by on have been put to increasing bus superstore met with strong opposition site bio-remediation.
We have also from the council and local residents.
Being adjacent to the town centre, introduced a training scheme for The site was then marketed for development of the site has had a local youngsters.
potential housing and although significant effect on Eastleighs Barratt was not the highest bidder, regeneration, and as a result the The development has provided 120 Pirelli recognised our regeneration council has announced further much-needed affordable homes.
skills and local knowledge and we investment plans.
There is a 0.25 acre site for a were chosen as developer.
community building and we have As part of the overall benefits from agreed to spend 1% of the We engaged the community from the the 120 million scheme, construction costs on art features outset, establishing regular substantial contributions have been throughout the site.
community liaison meetings with made: Park 21 is one of the most innovative local residents, and held various developments in the UK.
The site is To maintain and enhance local exhibitions during the planning divided into a number of recreation grounds and a nearby process.
After almost two years our neighbourhood home zones and leisure centre proposals were approved by the priority is given to pedestrians and Towards various community planning committee without a single cyclists over motorists.
Bus routes buildings and community groups objection.
are taken through the site in order to Demolition of the old factory further encourage people away from To the town centres CCTV, buildings was a major undertaking cars.
And each resident is given a resulting in a recent survey which but 94% of materials on site bicycle.
declared Eastleigh as one of the thousands of tons of metal, concrete UKs safest centres and rubble have been recycled, Top left: Barratt Southampton Managing Director Steve Wilks inspecting recycled material Above: Live-work units 39 Barrier Point Silvertown, London E16 Barrier Point is one of around 45 Barrier Point has won Barratt developments in London numerous industry awards Docklands, where we have been the only major developer to have been for the quality of its consistently active since 1981, design, construction and providing well over 4,000 homes.
suitability for purpose, As Government planning policy more than any other requires greater use of urban locations with higher density residential development in developments, at Barratt we are London.
These include extremely well-positioned to meet this requirement, with the expertise being named Best to overcome changing technical and Brownfield Development in environmental challenges and to take on the more difficult sites.
Britain in the What House?
Awards, whose This award-winning project, for example, recycled a site which had judges praised our lain abandoned since it was used as expertise in turning an the construction compound for the Thames Barrier in the 1970s.
When ex-industrial wasteland acquired, it had long been cleared into a striking modern but had not been remediated and posed significant challenges to bring landmark.
to the standard required for residential development.
The 5-acre site contained a variety of industrial wastes and pollutants requiring thorough cleansing in consultation with the Environment Agency and the local authority.
These, together with major obstructions from foundations of 40 previous buildings, proved a challenge to both designers and construction teams.
Remediation was a complex, costly and extensive operation, requiring wholesale topsoil removal, capping, replacement and comprehensive testing.
The work took over six months and was duly approved, enabling construction work on the cleaned-up site to begin.
Barratt commissioned architects Goddard Manton Partnership to produce a striking contemporary design which would extend the benefit of the adjacent Thames Barrier Point buyers Bobby Shah and Barrier Park to residents, and the Shurbhi Dodia scheme won planning consent from Newham Council.
The result is a sleek, glistening white, ultra-modern building of 252 apartments, which makes the most advantage of the spectacular views from its south-facing location.
The building is topped by a circular 18- storey tower the tallest structure ever built by Barratt.
The mix of 1, 2 and 3 bedroom homes proved a runaway sales success.
41 The Ironworks Village Leith, Edinburgh This development is one of a series of highlysuccessful urban regeneration projects we have carried out in Edinburgh over recent years which have transformed redundant and derelict industrial sites into landmark residential developments.
These schemes have created several hundred new homes, for all market sectors, and delivered a range of social and economic benefits to local communities.
We acquired this 4.7 acre site formerly the Brown Brothers marine engineering works following the success of another regeneration project on an adjacent brownfield site where we provided 108 homes which sold out in just 18 months.
The Brown Brothers works had specialised in producing steering equipments and stabilisers for ocean-going liners and the site presented significant technical challenges.
These included the successful completion of one the largest asbestos removal projects ever undertaken in Scotland to transform it into one of Edinburghs largest and most prestigious residential developments.
A comprehensive survey revealed asbestos in the offices and manufacturing units.
A specialist consultant was engaged to identify the extent and types, carry out work at test locations and produce a detailed specification for the removal 42 works.
These works were carefully carried out over a 15-month period by a specialist contractor.
Each section of asbestos to be removed was fully enclosed before disposal at licensed landfill sites, an air monitoring programme instigated and decontamination facilities provided for site operatives.
Once the ground was cleared, construction work commenced on the 65 million scheme which is providing a wide mix of 377 apartments and townhouses, ranging from 1 to 3 bedrooms, with some underground parking.
During the planning process, we consulted with the local community and ensured they were kept informed of our proposals.
The developments reduced building footprint, together with the establishment of home zones where priority is given to pedestrians and cyclists over traffic, enables residents to enjoy a series of external landscaped spaces.
These are double the size specified by the local authority and we have carried out comprehensive landscaping, including mature planting and sculpture features, to create for residents a welcoming and tranquil environment in the heart of the city.
43 Verification I can confirm that the information This Statement This is the first Barratt reported in this statement and report Corporate Social has been assessed and is accurate.
This statement relates to the Each individual claim has been activities, products and services of Responsibility report verified against information provided Barratt.
This first statement is incorporating social, by the company or by a third party.
specific to the period 01 July 2003 Each data reference has been 30 June 2004.
The next statement environmental and ethical checked.
Data in this report, which will relate to the period 01 July issues.
The aim of the has been estimated, will be the 2004 30 June 2005. subject of future verification.
verification process is to Copies of the Statement will be provide assurance that the Barratt have committed to continual circulated to all staff and to improvement in performance.
If you would like information described in recognition of this commitment 18 to order a copy please contact: this report is both objectives and 23 targets have been published in this report under the The Company Secretarys Office accurate and reliable and headings of Corporate Social Barratt Developments PLC that the claims made Responsibility, Human Resources, Wingrove House the Environment, and for Ponteland Road stand up to scrutiny.
Newcastle upon Tyne NE5 3DP Performance against these targets and management programmes will be Telephone: 0191 286 6811 verified and reported in next years Fax: 0191 271 2242 report.
Verifier: Julian Ringer Copies of the Statement are also 22 September 2004 available at: www.
co. uk Julian Ringer Managing Director SEQM Limited Julian Ringer is a Principal Environmental Auditor IEMA P50, a Lead Environmental Assessor IEMA L15, and an EMAS verifier in both the UK and Denmark registered with the relevant member state competent bodies for EMAS 44 45 Regency Apartments, London SW1 - an award-winning regeneration project in the heart of Westminster Feedback form Group Office Barratt Developments PLC, Wingrove House, Ponteland Road, Please rate what you think of Barratts current performance in the following areas Newcastle upon Tyne, as reported in this our first CSR report.
Tel: 0191 286 6811 Environment Fax: 0191 271 2242 Social Health & Safety Barratt Homes Ltd Northern Region What information did you find most helpful in the report?
Barratt Northern, Barratt House, Airport Industrial Estate, Kenton, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE3 2EQ.
Tel: 0191 286 9866 Fax: 0191 286 8088 Barratt East Scotland, Craigcrook Castle, Craigcrook Road, Edinburgh, EH4 3PE.
Tel: 0131 336 3655 Fax: 0131 336 2392 What additional information would you like to see in our future CSR Reports?
Barratt Leeds, Premier House, 14 Royds Hall Road, Pavilion Business Park, Leeds, LS12 6AJ.
Tel: 0113 279 0099 Fax: 0113 279 0038 Barratt Newcastle, Barratt House, Airport Industrial Estate, Kenton, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE3 2EQ.
Please cut out and return this form to: Tel: 0191 286 9866 Fax: 0191 271 5985 CSR Report 2004 - Feedback Barratt West Scotland, Barratt Developments PLC, Mayfield House, Wingrove House, 7 Maggie Wood's Loan, Ponteland Road, Falkirk, FK1 5SJ.
Fax: 01324 625916 Barratt York, Thank you for taking the time to read our CSR report and fill in our Feedback Richmond House, Millfield Lane, Form.
Your comments are important to us.
co. uk Principal Subsidiary Undertakings KINGSOAK Homes Ltd Central Region KingsOak Central, UK Housebuild Commercial Property 1st Floor, Midland House, New Road, Halesowen, Barratt Homes Ltd. Barratt Construction Ltd. KingsOak Homes Ltd. Barratt Commercial Ltd. West Midlands, B63 3HY.
Wingrove House, Golf Road, Wingrove House, Wingrove House, Tel: 0121 550 7483 Ponteland Road, Ellon, Ponteland Road, Ponteland Road, Fax: 0121 585 5535 Newcastle upon Tyne, Aberdeenshire, Newcastle upon Tyne, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE5 3DP.
Tel: 01908 541900 Fax: 01908 541901 KingsOak South Midlands, Central Region West Region Southern Region KingsOak House, 2 Elm Court, Copse Drive, Meriden, Barratt Central, Barratt West, Barratt Southern, Coventry, CV5 9RG.
Barratt House, Worrall House, Wallis House, Tel: 01676 525900 Almondsbury Business Centre, 683 Chester Road, Great West Road, Fax: 01676 525901 Manchester, M16 0QS.
KingsOak South West, Tel: 01454 202202 Fax: 0161 877 6070 Tel: 020 8326 7100 Broadway House, Fax: 01454 617038 Fax: 020 8326 7204 Almondsbury Business Centre, Barratt Chester, Woodlands, Almondsbury, Barratt Bristol, Oak House, Lloyd Drive, Barratt East London, Bristol, BS32 4QH.
Barratt House, Ellesmere Port, Central House, Tel: 01454 275800 Almondsbury Business Centre, South Wirral, 32-66 High Street, Fax: 01454 275824 Woodlands, Almondsbury, Cheshire, CH65 9HQ.
Barratt East Midlands, Barratt Eastern Counties, Barratt Exeter, Tel: 0121 585 8788 Broadgate House, 6-8 Richmond Road, Barratt House, Fax: 0121 585 8789 Humber Road, Beeston, Chelmsford, Hennock Road Central, Nottingham, NG9 2EF.
Southern Region Fax: 0115 907 8301 Fax: 01245 232277 Tel: 01392 439022 KingsOak Southern, Fax: 01392 216104 Barratt Manchester, Barratt North London, KingsOak House, Clivemont Road, Maidenhead, Worrall House, Barratt House, Barratt Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 7BZ.
683 Chester Road, Wellstones, Watford, SC House, Vanwall Road, Tel: 01628 629922 Manchester, M16 0QS.
Fax: 0161 848 7332 Fax: 01923 297301 Tel: 01628 783017 KingsOak North London, Fax: 01628 636415 3 The Orient Centre, Barratt Northampton, Barratt South London, Greycaine Road, 900 Pavilion Drive, Grosvenor House, Barratt Mercia, Watford, WD24 7JT.
Northampton Business Park, 110 Manor Road, Tel: 01923 810870 4-5 Elm Court, Northampton, NN4 7RG.
Tel: 02380 461000 Barratt House, Barratt Southern Counties, Barratt South Wales, Fax: 02380 461007 Newton Chambers Road, Barratt House, Oak House, Thorncliffe Park, Walnut Tree Close, Penarth Road, KingsOak Southern Counties, Chapeltown, Guildford, Cardiff, CF11 8UW.
Fax: 0114 257 2501 Fax: 01483 508603 Tel: 01932 353882 Barratt Southampton, Fax: 01932 346431 Barratt West Midlands, Barratt West London, Barratt House, Midland House, Wallis House, Bampton Court, KingsOak Thames Valley, New Road, Hursley Road, Great West Road, KingsOak House, Halesowen, Brentford, Chandlers Ford, Clivemont Road, Maidenhead, West Midlands, B63 3HY.
