INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We read the directors report and the other information contained Independent auditors report to the members of BBA Group plc in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents We have audited the financial statements of BBA Group plc for the year section including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration ended 31 December 2004 which comprise the profit and loss account, report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware the Group and Company balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of financial statements.
movements in shareholders funds, the statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 25.
These financial statements have Basis of audit opinion been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing also audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes report that is described as having been audited.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and This report is made solely to the Company's members, as disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. remuneration report described as having been audited.
It also includes Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by Companys members those matters we are required to state to them the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone of the Company and the Group, consistently applied and adequately other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for disclosed.
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the report described as having been audited are free from material financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
They are also responsible for the In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of including the directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance Opinion with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the auditing standards.
state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended and the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described statements and the part of the directors remuneration report as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance described as having been audited have been properly prepared in with the Companies Act 1985. accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Deloitte & Touche LLP remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors of the Group is not disclosed.
London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects 23 February 2005 the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
