Glossary of Terms Property Financial continued Assured periodic tenancy APT Market rented tenancy arising from succession from Hedging The use of financial instruments to protect against regulated.
Tenant has security of tenure.
Assured shorthold tenancy AST Market rented tenancy where landlord may obtain Interest cover Profit on ordinary activities before interest and tax possession if appropriate notice served.
divided by net interest payable.
Assured tenancy AT Market rented tenancy where tenant has right to renew.
Negative goodwill On acquisition of a company, the surplus of the value of the statutory net assets acquired over the purchase Investment value IV Open market value of a property subject to relevant price paid.
Net asset value NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the market value of Life tenancy Rent free tenancy where tenant has right of property assets held as stock.
occupation until possession is forfeited usually on death.
If tenant retains an equity interest in the Net net asset value triple net or NNNAV NAV adjusted for contingent tax liabilities which would property this is a partial life tenancy.
accrue if assets sold at market value and for the market value of long-term debt and derivatives.
Regulated tenancy Tenancy regulated under 1977 Rent Act, rent usually sub-market set by rent officer and tenant Swap Financial instrument to protect against interest rate has security of tenure.
Tenanted residential TR Activity covering the acquisition, renting out and Total shareholder return TSR Return attributable to shareholders on basis of share subsequent sale usually on vacancy of residential price growth with dividends reinvested.
units subject to a tenancy agreement.
Weighted average cost of capital WACC The weighted average cost of funding the groups Vacant possession value VP Open market value of a property free from any activities through a combination of shareholders funds tenancies.
Financial Corporate Cap Financial instrument which, in return for a fee, BPT plc Formerly Bradford Property Trust plc.
Major residential guarantees an upper limit for the interest rate on a loan.
investor acquired by Bromley in May 2001.
Contingent tax The amount of tax that would be payable should assets Bromley joint venture Bromley JV The joint venture between Grainger and Deutsche Bank be sold at the market value shown in the accounts.
Dividend cover Earnings per share divided by dividends per share.
Bromley Property Holdings Limited Bromley Holding company of the vehicle used to acquire BPT plc.
Earnings per share EPS Profit attributable to shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue in the year.
Deutsche Bank DB Joint venture partners in acquisition of BPT plc.
FRS13 Accounting standard requiring the disclosure of the market value of long-term debt and financial instruments.
FRS19 Accounting standard prohibiting the provision of deferred tax on stock revaluation surpluses when companies are acquired.
Gearing The ratio of borrowings net of cash to net asset value.
Annual report and accounts 2004 51 Grainger Trust plc Corporate Addresses Altrincham office St Johns House Barrington Road Altrincham Cheshire WA14 1TJ Epsom office Kings Lodge 28 Church Street Epsom Surrey KT17 4QB Harborne office The Circle Harborne Birmingham B17 9DY London office 161 Brompton Road Knightsbridge London SW3 1QP Martlesham office 42a Barrack Square Martlesham Heath Ipswich Suffolk IP5 3RF Newcastle office Citygate St James Boulevard Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4JE Grainger Trust plc 52 Annual report and accounts 2004 Printed on Zanders Mega Matt a paper that is manufactured using 50% recycled fide-inked fibre and 50% TCF totally chlorine free pulp, and is sourced from sustainable forests.
The paper is also biodegradable and harmless to the environment.
Designed & produced by Carnegie Orr T 020 7610 6140 www.
com Grainger Trust plc Newcastle office: Citygate St James Boulevard Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4JE London office: 161 Brompton Road London SW3 1QP email: info graingertrust.
co. uk @ Company registration number: 125575
