NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that an ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the members of the Company will be held at the offices of Olswang, Notice of 90 High Holborn, London WC1V 6XX on 25 November 2004 at 9:00 am for the purposes of considering and, if thought fit, passing the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and Special Resolutions as specified: Annual General Meeting Ordinary resolutions 1.
To receive and adopt the report of the Directors, the annual accounts and the auditors report thereon for the year ended 30 June 2004.
To declare a final dividend of 2.13 pence per ordinary share for the year ended 30 June 2004, payable on 15 December 2004.
To reappoint Sir David Garrard as a Director of the Company.
To reappoint Christopher Sheridan as a Director of the Company.
To approve the Directors Remuneration report set out in the annual report and accounts.
To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company from the conclusion of this meeting to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
That the Directors be, and they are hereby, generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 13,394,871 provided that this authority shall expire 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution or, at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting, if earlier, and so that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 7 above, the Directors be, and they are hereby, empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 7 above for cash as if sub-Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment: a. of equity securities in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their respective holdings of such shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory, or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and b. otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a. above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount not exceeding 2,009,230: and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution or 15 months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, so that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company be, and it is hereby, generally and unconditionally authorised for the purpose of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 64 65an Ezekiel to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued the Company upon such terms and in such manner as the Directors of the Company shall determine, provided that: a. the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 24,094,694: b. the minimum price which may be paid for such ordinary shares is 25 pence per share exclusive of expenses : c. the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share shall not be more than an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the closing middle market price for the ordinary share as derived from the Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the ordinary share is purchased: d. unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 or 15 months from the date of the Annual General Meeting at which this resolution is passed, whichever is the earlier: and e. the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
By order of the Board Ivan Ezekiel Secretary 25 October 2004 Notes 1.
Proxies A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting convened by this notice is entitled to appoint one or more proxies who need not be members to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A form of proxy is enclosed for the use of members.
To be effective it must be completed and be deposited with the Companys Registrar, Capita Registrars, PO Box 25, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR if sent by post, or Capita Registrars, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU if delivered by hand, so as to arrive at least 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
Documents for inspection The following documents are available for inspection at the offices of Olswang, 90 High Holborn, London WC1V 6XX, during business hours on any weekday from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the Meeting: 2.1. a register of interests of Directors and their families in the shares of the Company: and 2.2. copies of all contracts of service under which Directors are employed by the Company.
Right to attend and vote The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that, only those persons whose names are entered on the register of members of the Company at 9:00 am on 23 November 2004 or in the event that the Meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend the Meeting and to vote in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Meeting.
