73 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Annual General Meeting Notice Notice of Annual General Meeting For the year ended 31 March 2004 NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the twelfth Annual General Meeting of the members of Quintain Estates and Development PLC will be held at the Thistle Hotel, Bryanston Street, Marble Arch, London W1A 4UR at 9.30am on Wednesday 8 September 2004 to carry out the following business: 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the Audited Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2004.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004.
To consider, and if thought fit, adopt the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
To receive and adopt the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
To receive and adopt the Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
To elect Joan MacNaughton as a director.
To re-elect Martin Meech as a director.
To re-elect Rebecca Jane Worthington as a director.
To re-elect David Geoffrey Pangbourne as a director.
To re-elect Barbara Susan Thomas as a director.
To elect David Geoffrey Pangbourne as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
To elect David Geoffrey Pangbourne as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
To re-appoint the retiring auditors and authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
To consider, and if thought fit, pass the following resolutions 14, 15 and 16 as Ordinary Resolutions and resolutions 17 to 21 as Special Resolutions: 14.
THAT pursuant to Article 92 of the Articles of Association of the Company the maximum number of directors be removed with immediate effect.
THAT pursuant to Article 94 a of the Articles of Association of the Company the limit on directors fees be removed forthwith.
THAT the section 80 period as defined in Article 11 d ii of the Articles of Association of the Company shall be the period expiring on the fifth anniversary of the passing of this resolution and that for such period the section 80 amount and the restricted section 80 amount as defined in Article 11 d iv shall be 10,774,288 being one third of the nominal value of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2004 and 1,478,763 being the nominal value of shares to be issued in respect of outstanding options, share rights and convertibles respectively and that all previous authorities under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 shall henceforth cease to have effect.
THAT the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by the deletion of Article 15 and the insertion of the following article in its place: Notwithstanding any other article or regulation, the Board may from time to time determine, either generally or in any particular case, the method by which any share certificate issued by the company in respect of the companys shares, stock, debentures or other securities shall be authenticated or executed by or on behalf of the company and, in particular: a the Board may dispense with the need to affix the common seal, or any official seal, of the company to such certificate: b the Board may determine the manner, and by whom, any such certificate is to be signed, and may dispense with the need for such certificate to be signed or executed in any way: c the Board may permit the signature or a facsimile of the signature of any person to be applied to such share certificate by any mechanical or electronic means in place of that persons actual signature.
And any certificate issued in accordance with the requirements of the Board shall, as against the company, be prima facie evidence of the title of the person named in that certificate to the shares comprised in it.
74 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Annual General Meeting Notice Notice of Annual General Meeting continued For the year ended 31 March 2004 18.
THAT Article 80 of the Articles of Association of the Company be amended to read as follows: Subject to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any shares by or in accordance with these Articles or their terms of issue, on a show of hands every member who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly authorised representative at any meeting of the Company and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll every member entitled to vote present either personally or being a corporation by duly authorised representative, by proxy or if available having previously lodged an electronic vote as prescribed by the Company, shall have one vote for every share held by him.
THAT the section 89 period as defined in Article 11 d iii of the Articles of Association of the Company shall be the period expiring 15 months after the passing of this resolution, and that for such period the section 89 amount as defined in Article 11 d v shall be 1,616,143 being 5% of the issued share capital.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of its own shares herein referred to as ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 19,393,719 being 15% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2004 : ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased exclusive of expenses payable by the Company : and iv the authority conferred shall expire either at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 or, if earlier, at midnight on the date falling fifteen months after the passing of this resolution except that the Company may before such expiry make a contract to purchase its own shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
21. a THAT the 2004 Quintain Share Plan the Plan, a summary of which appears on pages 33 and 34 of this Report and Accounts, be adopted as drafted, subject only to any minor amendments the directors consider necessary or desirable to facilitate implementation of the Plan.
b THAT the directors be and they are authorised to make any and all necessary arrangements to implement the Plan forthwith.
By Order of the Board Charlotte Eastwood Company Secretary 16 July 2004 Registered Office: 58 Davies Street London W1K 5JF Notes 1A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and poll one vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is attached.
Completion and return of a proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person.
2To be effective, proxy forms and any power of attorney or other kind of authority under which it is signed, or an appropriately certified copy of such authority, must be delivered to the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, Registrars Department, PO Box 1075, Bristol BS99 3FA so as to be received no later than 9.30am on 6 September 2004.
3 The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 specifies that only those shareholders registered on the Register of Members of the Company as at 6pm on 6 September 2004 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6pm on 6 September 2004 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
