St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 Annual General Meeting In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, shareholders will be asked to approve the directors remuneration report set out on pages 36 to 39 for the year ended 30th November 2004.
The following resolutions have become routine business at the Annual General Meetings of most public companies, including St. Modwen Properties PLC, and relate to: renewal of the authority for the directors to allot relevant securities and the renewal of the powers for the directors to allot equity securities for cash Resolutions 6 and 7.
The existing general authority of the directors to allot shares and the current disapplication of the statutory pre-emption rights expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association contains a general authority for the directors to allot shares in the company for a period not exceeding five years the prescribed period and up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount the Section 80 amount approved by a Special or Ordinary Resolution of the company.
Article 8.2 also empowers the directors during the prescribed period to allot shares for cash in connection with a rights issue and also to allot shares for cash in any other circumstances up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount approved by a Special Resolution of the company the Section 89 amount.
The board has no intention at present to exercise the authority to allot shares.
Resolution 6, which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution, provides for the Section 80 amount to be 2,922,605 being an amount equal to the authorised but unissued share capital of the company at the date of this report and representing 24% of the companys issued share capital at that date.
Resolution 7, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, provides for the Section 89 amount to be 603,870 representing 5% of the companys issued share capital.
The prescribed period for which these powers and authorities are granted will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held next year or on 21st July 2006 if earlier when the directors intend to seek renewal of the authorities.
renewal of the authority for the company to purchase certain of its own shares Resolution 8.
This resolution renews an existing authority for a further year.
The directors believe it is advantageous to have such authority but would only exercise it if it was believed to be in the best interests of shareholders.
At present, the board has no intention to exercise the authority.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to remain in office and a resolution to reappoint them as auditors of the company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the sixty-fourth Annual General Meeting of St. Modwen Properties PLC will be held at noon on 22nd April 2005 at the Ironmongers Hall, Barbican, London EC2Y 8AA.
To receive and adopt the report of the directors and the accounts for the year ended 30th November 2004.
To declare a final ordinary dividend of 5.1p per share.
To re-elect as directors: i. Simon Clarke ii.
Christopher Roshier, v. James Shaw 4.
To reappoint Ernst &Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
To approve the directors remuneration report contained on pages 36 to 39.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions: 6.
Ordinary Resolution That the authority to allot relevant securities and equity securities conferred on the directors by Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 21st July 2006 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier and for such period the Section 80 amount shall be 2,922,605.
58 St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC Annual report 2004 Notice of meeting continued 7.
Special Resolution That the power to allot relevant securities and equity securities conferred on the directors by Article 8.2 of the companys Articles of Association be and is hereby granted for the period ending on 21st July 2006 or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier and for such period the Section 89 amount shall be 603,870.
Special Resolution That, in accordance with Article 10 of its Articles of Association and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, the company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the board of directors may from time to time determine PROVIDED THAT the general authority conferred by this Resolution shall: a be limited to 12,077,395 ordinary shares of 10p each: b not permit the payment per share of more than 105% of the average middle market price quotation on the London Stock Exchange for the ordinary shares on the five previous dealing days or less than 10p in each case exclusive of advance corporation tax if any and expenses payable by the company : and c expire on 21 July 2006 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the company to be held after the date of the passing of this Resolution whichever is the earlier, save that if the company should before such expiry enter into a contract of purchase then the purchase may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the board Tim Haywood, Secretary 14th February 2005 Lyndon House 58-62 Hagley Road Edgbaston Birmingham B16 8PE Notes 1.
Entitlement to Attend and Vote In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the company gives notice that only those shareholders entered on the relevant register of members the Register for certificated or uncertificated shares of the company as the case may be at 6 p. m. on Wednesday 20 April 2005 the Specified Time will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the time.
Changes to entries on the Register after the Specified Time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at that meeting.
Should the meeting be adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
Should the meeting be adjourned for a longer period, then to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Register at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in the notice.
Appointment of Proxies A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint another person whether a member or not as his her proxy, to attend and, on a poll, vote for him her.
Forms of proxy, one of which is enclosed, must be signed by the appointer and must be lodged at the registrars office at least 48 hours before the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 22nd April 2005 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
"In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a ""CREST Proxy Instruction"" must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCo's specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual."
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuer's agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuer's agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Directors Service Contracts Copies of the contracts of service between the company and Mr C. C. A. Glossop, Mr W. A. Oliver, Mr R. L. Froggatt and Mr T. P. Haywood are available for inspection at the registered office of the company on each business day during normal business hours and will be available on the day of the meeting, at the place of the meeting, from at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
A register of directors interests will also be available for inspection from the commencement of the meeting until its conclusion.
