The Davis Service Group Plc 22 Report and accounts 2004 Directors report continued People Our own and those we serve as customers or users of our products and services.
The group recognises it is the responsibility of management to maintain healthy and safe working conditions for all its employees.
Subsidiaries are required to take all necessary steps to maintain standards and procedures which discharge the duties laid down by the regulatory framework in each companys country of operation.
Processes The environmental impact of our processes are classied as low impact in respect of resource use, waste generation, noise and emissions.
Our facilities are all subject to local regulatory standards and it is the policy of the group to operate all of them in a responsible manner and to take positive management action to avoid adverse impact on our working environment.
Products and services Many of our services, particularly in the healthcare sector for textile maintenance, are delivered to very exacting standards required by our customers.
Procurement We are conscious of the impact and example we should set with others in our procurement.
We are particularly sensitive to avoid sourcing textile items from countries with unsatisfactory labour conditions.
Employment policy It is the groups policy not to discriminate between employees or potential employees on any grounds: promotion and development are based on each individuals aptitude, abilities and skills.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
Creditor payment policy It is the groups policy to agree the terms of payment with each of its suppliers at the commencement of the trading relationship and to abide by those terms provided that the supplier has performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Trade creditor days of the company for the year ended 31st December 2004 were ten days and for the groups major trading companies were 33 days.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution that they may be reappointed will be proposed at the annual general meeting on 26th April 2005.
By order of the board D F Batchelor Secretary 24th February 2005 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The financial statements on pages 24 to 48 have been prepared on a going concern basis, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that the company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the board D F Batchelor Secretary 24th February 2005
