The Davis Service Group Plc 52 Report and accounts 2004 Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the annual general meeting to be held on 26th April 2005 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Radley Yeldar London Design and production This is Davis Turnover on continuing operations 797.7m 2003: 814.6m The Davis Service Group provides a range of rental based services to a broad spread of commercial, industrial, leisure and -2% public customers.
In each area of activity the Operating profit on continuing operations 108.1m 2003: 101.7m individual group companies have long established and well recognised names which, together with their 6% trading success, have resulted in their securing Profit before tax 53.4m 2003: 26.8m leading positions in their respective markets.
Through a combination of organic and acquisitive 26.6m growth the group continually develops and expands the Adjusted earnings per share 31.69p 2003: 30.01p range of products and services provided.
6% Dividends per share 16.50p 2003: 15.60p 6% Before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals The Davis Service Group Plc Report and accounts 2004 The Davis Service Group Plc Report and accounts 2004 04 Registered office The Davis Service Group Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7DL Registered N 1480047 Tel: 020 7259 6663 Fax: 020 7259 6948 E-mail: reception@dsgplc.
