The Davis Service Group Plc 28 Report and accounts 2004 Statement of accounting policies Basis of financial statements The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, modied to include the revaluation of land and buildings, and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
A summary of the principal group accounting policies is set out below.
All have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Basis of consolidation The group financial statements consolidate those of the company and all its subsidiaries made up to 31st December 2004.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
In the companys financial statements, investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost.
Changes in accounting policies The transitional provisions of FRS17 Retirement Benets, require additional disclosures relating to the groups pension schemes as shown in note 8.
There will be no effect on the groups results until full implementation of the standard.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given for a business over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
In accordance with FRS10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets goodwill arising on acquisitions from 1st January 1998 is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Where such goodwill is regarded as having a limited estimated useful economic life, it is amortised through the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over its life.
Where such goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite life, it is not amortised but is subjected to an annual impairment review and any impairment will be charged to the profit and loss account.
In estimating the useful economic life of goodwill, account is taken of the nature of the business acquired, the stability of the industry, the extent of continuing barriers to market entry and the expected future impact of competition.
All acquisitions since 1st January 1998 are considered by the directors to have estimated useful economic lives of between five and 20 years depending on the business acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1st January 1998 remains eliminated against reserves.
The goodwill attributable to any business which is disposed of subsequently is charged to the profit and loss account at the time of disposal.
Tangible xed assets Land and buildings are shown at original historical cost or subsequent valuation.
Prior to 1st January 2002, properties were also revalued, albeit less frequently, any surplus or deficit being transferred to the revaluation reserve.
From 1st January 2002, following the adoption of the transitional provisions of FRS15 Tangible Fixed Assets, no further revaluations will take place other than fair value adjustments required on the acquisition of subsidiaries, and any existing valuations, details of which are given in note 14, are being carried forward.
Other xed assets are shown at cost.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Properties occupied by group companies Depreciation is being provided at a rate of 2% per annum on an estimate of the buildings element of freehold properties and properties on leases with 50 or more years unexpired at the balance sheet date.
This rate has been determined having regard to the groups practice to maintain these assets in a continual state of sound repair and to extend and make improvements from time to time.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Short leasehold land and buildings Depreciated by equal instalments over the period of the lease.
Plant and machinery Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50% per annum, depending on the class of asset.
Hire and rental inventory Depreciated at rates of 10% to 55%, depending on the class of asset, and augmented by amounts to cover wastage, obsolescence and loss.
Investments Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
The Davis Service Group Plc 29 Report and accounts 2004 Finance leases and lease purchase arrangements Assets acquired under finance leases and lease purchase arrangements are capitalised and are reported at cost: the equivalent liability is categorised as appropriate under creditors due within or after one year.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease to produce a constant rate of charge on the outstanding balance.
Rentals are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the liability.
Operating leases Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Stocks Stocks comprise portable buildings being manufactured for sale and other stocks and stores.
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For these purposes cost is dened as being the expenditure which has been incurred exclusive of value added tax in bringing the various items to their present location and condition and will, in the case of work in progress and nished goods, include direct costs of labour and materials and, where appropriate, production overheads.
Net realisable value is dened as being the estimated net sales value of the various items in their present location and condition.
Full provision is made for obsolete, defective and slow moving stock.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on a full provision basis, without discounting, on all timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Except where otherwise required by Accounting Standards, no timing differences are recognised in respect of: a property revaluation surpluses where there is no commitment to sell the asset, b gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets, c additional tax which would arise if profits of overseas subsidiaries were distributed, and d deferred tax assets except to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Pension costs It is the policy of the group to fund dened pension liabilities, on the advice of external actuaries, by payments to schemes controlled by independent trustees.
Pension costs are charged against profits on a systematic basis over the service lives of the eligible employees, based on payroll, actuarial methods and assumptions, in accordance with the actuaries advice.
For unfunded pension schemes, the group charges pension costs against profit and provides for liabilities on the advice of external advisers.
The costs of dened contribution schemes or pension arrangements of a similar nature are charged against profits as contributions become payable to the relevant scheme or arrangement.
The groups pension cost charged to the profit and loss account is in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs, further, the group has adopted the additional disclosure requirements under the transitional provisions of FRS17 Retirement Benets.
Foreign currency The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the average rates of exchange during the period and their balance sheets are translated at year end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange differences are dealt with through reserves and reported in the consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Exchange differences arising on the consolidation of subsidiary undertakings are dealt with through reserves, net of differences on related borrowings which finance or provide a hedge.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies held at the year end are translated at year end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange gain or loss is dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Turnover Group turnover comprises of operating lease income which is recognised on a straight line basis and the value of sales excluding sales taxes, trade discounts and intra-group transactions of goods and services in the normal course of business.
Sales of long-term services are recognised in accordance with performance of underlying contractual terms.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Interest rate swaps Interest expense reects the underlying cost of borrowing.
Net payments and receipts under interest rate swap contracts are accrued over the period to which they relate and added to or credited against interest expense.
No accounting entries are required for the principal amount of interest rate swaps as it is purely a notional gure and does not represent an asset, a liability or a contingency.
Employee share schemes In accordance with the exemption provided for in UITF abstract 17 Employee share schemes revised, no cost is recognised in the profit and loss account for the award to employees of shares in the companys UK Inland Revenue approved Sharesave Scheme.
