3i Report and accounts 2004 Private equity and venture capital an introduction Nature of private equity and venture capital The private equity and venture capital industry covers three broad categories of investment: Early stage investment sometimes called venture investment this is investment in early stage or start up businesses, usually engaged in life sciences research or technology development activities.
Here, the investor the VC would usually take a minority equity stake i. e. less than 50% of the equity shares in the business as part of a syndicate of venture investors: and the aim of the investment is to provide funding for development or research expenditure through a series of investment rounds.
Progress and prospects are re-assessed ahead of the provision of further funding.
Growth capital or development capital investment this involves the provision of capital to accelerate the growth of established businesses and generally involves the VC taking a minority equity position.
It is a product suited to a diverse range of growth opportunities, including acquisitions, increasing production capacity, market or product development, turnaround opportunities, shareholder succession and change of ownership situations.
Buy-out investment this involves the purchase of an existing independent business or subsidiary or division of a corporate group from its current owners.
This category of investment includes management buy-outs, management buy-ins, institutional buy-outs, etc.
Here, the equity in the post buy-out business is usually shared between the management team and the VC, with the VC usually holding a majority stake.
The finance for the buy-out would generally comprise around 60% of senior and mezzanine debt usually provided by banks and mezzanine providers, with substantially all of the balance of the purchase price coming from the VC and a relatively small amount coming from the management team.
In order to reflect the mismatch between the equity finance provided by the VC and the management team and the equity stake taken by each in the underlying business, a large part of the VCs finance is generally provided in the form of redeemable preference shares or shareholder loans.
Investment objective Like any other investment, the objective of the VC is to earn attractive returns on its investment commensurate with the risk being taken.
The returns come either in the form of income interest, dividends or fees or capital gains.
The contrast with investment in quoted companies is that the VC will usually prefer to crystallise its capital gain through a trade sale i. e. a sale to a corporate purchaser or flotation on the public markets of the underlying business.
This preference tends to make private equity and venture capital investment medium to long term in nature, since time is required to implement the value growth strategy for the business and there will also be a wish to optimise the timing of the exit.
The investment lifecycle The investment lifecycle for an investment can be broken down into five distinct phases, with each involving significant resource and capability on the part of the VC: Origination the ability to access and create investment opportunities is critical to the VCs business model.
Developing and validating the investment case this phase involves capability in the areas of judgment, knowledge and experience within the particular business area in which the opportunity lies: building a management team and working with them to develop the value growth strategy: consideration of the exit strategy: and due diligence on all significant assumptions and inputs to the investment case.
Structuring and making the investment this phase involves financial structuring, negotiation and project management skills on the part of the VC.
Relationships with banks, mezzanine finance providers, intermediaries and others are also important.
Implementing the value growth strategy this phase involves actually making it happen, delivering value growth between making the investment and exit.
If the strategy involves corporate acquisitions or mergers, restructuring the business, achieving growth in turnover or operating profits, the VC would need to have the required capability to ensure these are achieved.
As important is the ability to assess and strengthen the management team as the life cycle proceeds this might involve having access to a pool of management talent in order to match a particular need to a particular management skill-set.
Exit this phase generally involves a trade sale or flotation of the underlying business.
Exit prospects and strategy should generally be reviewed on an ongoing basis during the investments life and the sale or flotation itself requires resource and capability from the VC, since both are lengthy and complex processes.
Types of investment vehicle The predominant vehicle in the industry is the independent, private, fixed-life, closed-end fund, usually organised as a limited partnership.
These funds typically have a fixed life of 10 years.
Investments generally consist of an initial commitment of capital which is then drawn down as the investment manager finds investment opportunities.
Capital is returned to the investor via earnings distributions and sales of investments.
Some investment vehicles are organised as captive or semi-captive funds.
A captive fund invests only for the interest of its parent organisation which may be a bank or investment bank, insurance company, university, or whatever.
A semi-captive fund mixes capital from both outside investors and the parent organisation.
Both captive and semi-captive funds tend to be evergreen in nature income from investments and proceeds received on the realisation of investments are substantially retained for further investment rather than being returned to investors.
There are also a limited number of private equity and venture capital investment companies, such as 3i, whose shares are listed on a stock exchange.
These tend to be evergreen in nature and offer investors a relatively liquid exposure to private equity and venture capital.
Drivers of private equity and venture capital investment Some of the main drivers giving rise to investment opportunities are as follows: Stock market conditions and M&A activity levels a strong stock market acts in many ways as an engine for private equity and venture capital, since it allows acquisitive listed companies to purchase businesses at attractive prices and also is more receptive to businesses seeking a listing.
The ability of the VC to exit at reasonably high values is a key part of the investment model, and exit assumptions will be a key input to the pricing parameters at the time of investing.
In addition, strong activity levels in the M&A market which will often follow from good stock market conditions tend to provide a source of investment opportunities when the acquiring group disposes of the unwanted parts of the business acquired.
Restructuring by large corporate groups as corporate groups change strategic direction or focus on core activities, they will often seek to sell unwanted or non-core subsidiaries or divisions, providing a good source of buy-out opportunities.
Entrepreneurial culture this is to do with the eagerness, across a society, of individuals to start up or grow businesses or to give up a secure corporate job for the opportunity to run or manage an independent business.
Growth strategies the pursuit of profits by businesses will often involve the use of growth strategies.
Whether the strategy is to grow organically or through acquisition, there will usually be a funding requirement, which can be met through the provision of growth capital.
Regulatory factors regulatory factors will often act to force corporations to sell off business units or to limit or restrict courses of action by parties operating in the complex world of business.
Additionally, regulatory factors can act to incentivise certain types of investment or courses of action.
Either way, regulation can give rise to investment opportunity for private equity and venture capital.
Technological developments and expenditure on information technology both of these factors act as engines for investment in the early stage technology area, as entrepreneurs seek to exploit the development and research opportunities arising.
Succession issues especially in family-owned businesses, succession issues can give rise to investment opportunities.
76 3i Report and accounts 2004 Information for shareholders Financial calendar Ex-dividend date 16 June 2004 Record date 18 June 2004 Annual General Meeting 11.00 am 7 July 2004 Final dividend to be paid 16 July 2004 3i is a world leader in private Interim dividend expected to be paid January 2005 equity and venture capital.
Shareholder profile Location of investors at 31 March 2004 1 UK including retail shareholders 79.08% We focus on buy-outs, 2 Continental Europe 6.81% 3 US 11.94% growth capital and venture 4 Other international 2.17% capital and invest across Share price Share price at 31 March 2004 629p Europe, in the United States High during the year 19 February 2004 686p Low during the year 1 April 2003 418p and in Asia Pacific.
02 Chairmans statement The table above provides details of the number of shareholdings within each of the bands stated in the Register of Members at 31 March 2004.
04 Chief Executives statement These underpin the 06 Our business focus Registrars For shareholder administration enquiries, including changes of address, please contact: 08 Operating and financial review value that we deliver to Lloyds TSB Registrars 25 Corporate responsibility report The Causeway 30 Board of Directors Worthing 32 Directors report our portfolio and to our West Sussex BN99 6DA 38 Remuneration report 46 Independent auditors report Telephone 44 0 870 600 3970 shareholders.
Financial statements 47 Consolidated statement of total return 47 Reconciliation of movement in shareholders funds 48 Consolidated revenue statement 49 Consolidated balance sheet 50 Parent company balance sheet 51 Consolidated cash flow statement Investor relations and general enquiries 52 Accounting policies 54 Notes to the accounts 68 Principal subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures For all investor relations and general enquiries about 3i Group plc, including requests for further copies of the Report and accounts, please contact: Additional financial information 69 Portfolio valuation methodology Group Communications 70 Ten largest investments 3i Group plc 71 Forty other large investments 91 Waterloo Road 72 New investment analysis London SE1 8XP 73 Portfolio analysis Telephone 44 0 20 7928 3131 75 Realisations analysis Fax 44 0 20 7928 0058 75 Funds under management e-mail ir@3igroup.
com 76 Private equity and venture capital or visit our investor relations website www.
com for full up-to-date investor relations information including the latest share price, recent annual and interim an introduction reports, results presentations and financial news.
Inside back cover 3i Group plc is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority as a deposit taker.
Information for shareholders Investor relations and general enquiries With thanks to the members of the 3i team who took part in the photography contained Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London.
Printed by CTD Printers Limited.
The paper used for the production of this brochure is manufactured from 50% totally chlorine free pulps sourced from plantation forests, offcuts and forest thinnings.
The further 50% is manufactured from recycled fibres.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2004 3i Group plc 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2004 91 Waterloo Road London SE1 8XP UK Telephone 44 0 20 7928 3131 Fax 44 0 20 7928 0058 Website www.
com M39404 May 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report for the year to 31 March 2004 Our approach Philosophy As an international business operating in 14 countries with around 750 employees worldwide, 3i aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner.
It is committed to being a responsible member of the communities in which it operates and recognises the mutual benefits of engaging and building relationships with those communities.
3i believes that respect for human rights is central to good corporate citizenship.
In everything 3i does, it aims to be commercial and fair, to maintain its integrity and professionalism and to respect the needs of shareholders, staff, suppliers, the local community and the businesses in which it invests.
3i endeavours to comply with the laws, regulations and rules applicable to its business and to conduct its business in accordance with established best practice in each of the countries in which it Responsibilities and accountabilities operates.
Environmental, ethical and social The Board as a whole is responsible for ethical responsibility issues and standards are also taken into standards.
The executive Directors are responsible consideration in every aspect of the business.
for ensuring compliance with 3is corporate values 3i aims to be a responsible employer and has and standards.
adopted corporate values and standards designed to The Corporate Responsibility Committee help guide its employees in their conduct and business the Committee, comprising Tony Brierley, Company relationships.
These values and standards are an Secretary and Chairman of the Committee, Patrick integral part of 3is culture.
Dunne, Group Communications Director, Charles Richardson, Manager of a UK portfolio management team, and Hans Middelthon, an investment executive in 3is Oil and Gas team, considers and reviews environmental, ethical and social issues relevant to 3is business and associated risks.
It also monitors and reviews the operation of 3is corporate responsibility policies and procedures.
Tony Brierley has specific responsibility for 3is environmental policies, leading the development of new initiatives and targets and reporting to the Board.
He is also a member of the Leadership Team of Business in the Environment.
The Committee, on behalf of the Board, identifies and assesses the significant risks and opportunities for 3i arising from social, ethical and environmental issues.
A risk matrix methodology is used to identify new risks, monitor developing trends and best practice, and consider changes in 3is business and culture.
This risk matrix is reviewed and updated at each meeting of the Committee and significant risks are reported to 3is Risk Committee.
The Committee reports regularly to the Board.
All employees have a responsibility to be aware of, and abide by, 3is environmental, ethical and social policies which are available to all staff through 3is intranet.
Employees are encouraged to make suggestions to improve processes and procedures.
Environment As a corporate The environment As an employer As a financial services business employing around 3is staff are fundamental to the success of its 750 employees worldwide, 3is direct environmental business.
Accordingly, one of 3is core values is to impact is relatively low.
3i measures its own energy respect its staff and their needs.
and resource usage where practicable and sets Employees are organised in small teams and targets to achieve improvement.
The principal an environment of co-operation is encouraged to benchmarks against which 3i measures its ensure the highest standards of integrity and performance are for: professionalism.
CO emissions: and In accordance with 3is core values, individual 2 recycling of paper and other materials.
consultation with employees on matters affecting them, and fair and open communication, are a high 3i also assesses the environmental standards of priority.
Periodically, internal communication surveys of suppliers, through its procurement policy.
employees are conducted for 3i by independent researchers.
3i has comprehensive behaviour policies to help ensure that employees treat their colleagues and others with courtesy and respect.
3i also has a whistle blowing policy setting out procedures for staff to raise in confidence matters of concern, for an appropriate and independent investigation of such matters and, where necessary, for follow-up action.
Health and safety 3i recognises that the promotion of health and safety at work is an essential function of staff and In Kind Direct management at all levels.
In an endeavour to achieve high standards, appropriate policies and procedures During the year, 3i supported have been put in place.
These policies and In Kind Direct, a UK charity which distributes procedures are the responsibility of Michael Queen, manufacturers surplus goods the Finance Director.
to other UK voluntary The purpose of 3is health and safety policy is organisations.
These include to enable all members of 3is staff to go about their essentials such as toiletries and tools, office supplies and everyday business at 3is offices in the expectation equipment, and household that they can do so safely and without risk to their products and appliances, health.
3i imposes rigorous standards on its staff and which might otherwise be disposed of in landfill sites.
subcontractors and endeavours to ensure that the 3i was particularly pleased to health, safety and welfare of its employees, visitors, support a charity which utilises customers, subcontractors staff and the general surplus products in an environmentally efficient public are not compromised.
3is objective is not to have any reportable accidents or incidents.
During the year to 31 March 2004, no reportable accidents or incidents occurred under UK Health and Safety regulations and no reportable accidents or incidents occurred under similar regulations outside the UK.
3is health and safety procedures are independently reviewed annually.
As a member of Tommys Pregnancy Accreditation Programme, 3i complies with criteria for pregnancy management, geared towards creating a positive environment for parents-to-be in the workplace.
As an investor Investment policy 3i has a portfolio of investments in over 1,800 businesses in Europe, Asia Pacific and the United States.
As an investor, corporate governance is a priority and account is taken of environmental, ethical and social issues when making investment decisions.
3i believes it is important to invest in companies whose owners and managers act responsibly on environmental, ethical and social matters.
3i aims to invest in companies which: respect human rights: comply with current environmental, ethical and social legislation: have proposals to address defined future legislation: Training and development seek to comply with their industry standards and Encouraging the continuous development of staff is best practice.
important to 3i and its business.
During the year, a revised training and development programme was 3i recognises that the most significant risks to 3is launched for 3i staff.
This programme includes courses short-term and long-term value arising from on communications and presentations, working within environmental, ethical and social matters arise from its a management matrix environment, coaching and investment business.
If a company in which 3i has an mentoring, and networking and management skills.
In investment acts irresponsibly on corporate addition, investment staff are required to complete an responsibility issues, this might affect the monetary investment training programme on joining 3i and all staff value of that investment and, as a shareholder in that are encouraged to attend external courses on subjects company, raise reputational issues for 3i.
Although 3i relevant to their roles within 3i.
During the year, in does not have operational control over the companies addition to these external courses, approximately 300 in which it invests, it does have the opportunity to employees attended training and development courses.
influence the behaviour of these businesses and It is a legal and regulatory requirement that all encourages the development and adoption of good executives involved in making or managing investment corporate governance.
This is achieved through the transactions receive anti-money laundering training training of investment staff and non-executive directors and refresher training on a rolling two year basis.
who are appointed to the boards of investee All relevant executives have received anti-money companies and the raising of awareness within laundering training and, during the year, 3i delivered a investee companies of social, environmental and refresher training presentation to all relevant ethical issues.
3i has clear procedures to reduce the risks of A programme of role-play-based workshops 3i investing in businesses which operate in an across the business and regular articles in 3is staff environmentally, ethically or socially unacceptable magazine are being used to raise awareness of manner.
When reviewing businesses for potential corporate responsibility issues, to stimulate debate investment, investment executives are required to and provide employee training.
During the year, nine consider whether any corporate responsibility risks workshops, covering 336 employees, were held in the arise and, if any risks are identified, to follow 3is UK.
Workshops will be held in continental Europe, corporate responsibility investment procedures.
Asia Pacific and the US in the coming year.
Following Depending on the nature of the risk identified and its feedback from these workshops, a fact sheet, seriousness, a condition precedent or post completion explaining 3is approach to corporate responsibility undertaking requiring that the situation be remedied and providing further information for staff, is being may be required from the investee company or its circulated.
Alternatively, it may be decided not to Training for Directors on corporate proceed with the investment.
responsibility issues is achieved through a system of Where, after an investment has been made, regular Board reporting and by Board presentations 3i becomes aware that an investee company is not on relevant corporate responsibility issues.
operating in an acceptable way, 3i will seek to use its influence to encourage improvement.
Where that is not possible, 3i will seek to divest itself of the investment.
Charity and community 3is charitable policy 3is charitable policy aims to support: causes based in the communities in which 3i has offices: charitable activities of staff.
3i matches donations made by UK staff under the Give as You Earn scheme GAYE and the proceeds of staff fundraising efforts.
In the year to 31 March 2004, approximately 32% of 3is charitable donations were matching GAYE donations: charities relevant to its corporate activity, for example, 3i supports businessdynamics, a charity which aims to help young people understand business.
Charitable donations made in the UK in the year to 31 March 2004 amounted to 253,419, supporting a variety of different charities with donations ranging up to 35,000.
Young Vic RAM The Young Vic theatre in 3is support of the Royal London runs a scheme to Academy of Music, enable children, otherwise sponsoring student denied the opportunity, to scholarships and the enjoy and be inspired by Symphonia Orchestra, dates theatre.
Unlike other active participant in this international music schools, scheme by donating 10,000.
Making a difference the academy relies on voluntary funding for all student scholarships.
Staff across 3i engage in a We were delighted to give range of community support the students the opportunity to projects.
The two examples perform at a gala concert in above are of team away days Paris celebrating 3is 20 years in Frankfurt and London.
involved a council house makeover in Frankfurt and the other, decorating part of the Lorrimore Drop-In Centre in London, a day centre which provides support to people with mental health needs.
3is performance management appraisal process reviews the performance of individual members of staff against agreed objectives and the knowledge, skills Performance and measurement and behaviours expected by 3i.
This process includes To assist it in benchmarking 3is corporate 360 degree feedback for all employees.
responsibility performance, the Committee has had All 3is offices are the subject of health and informal discussions with other companies and safety audits to ensure high standards are adopted specialists in this area.
The Committee has overseen on a consistent basis worldwide.
the formulation and implementation of corporate responsibility investment procedures, implemented Audit and verification appropriate risk management procedures and set The Committee is responsible for monitoring the strategic targets and objectives for corporate operation of 3is corporate responsibility policies and responsibility.
The identification and management of corporate responsibility risks is integral to the ongoing 3is performance is measured against two indices: operational processes of 3is business units and the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI, functions.
3is internal audit function carries out a global index which tracks the financial performance periodic independent reviews of risks and related of leading companies in terms of corporate controls in this area, including compliance with 3is sustainability: and corporate responsibility investment procedures.
Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility The Committee may also supplement internal BitC, an index which aims to benchmark review processes with external reviews where environmental, ethical and social performance and necessary.
The Committee is not aware of any material encourage sustainable development.
breaches of 3is policies and procedures for managing 3i has again been selected as a constituent of the risks from corporate responsibility issues.
DJSI during the year and was placed top in its industry The disclosures in this Corporate responsibility group on a global basis, an improvement on last year.
report are the subject of a process requiring every The DJSI researchers commented that 3i is clearly statement made in this report to be verified.
positioned among the best in the financial services industry source: SAM Research Inc. 3i aims to continue to be included within this Index and to maintain its position in the next DJSI assessment.
3i participated in the second annual BitC Corporate Responsibility Index.
3i was included in the BitCs Top 100 Companies that Count.
3is performance score increased from 46.33% in the 2002 Index to 85.45% in the 2003 Index.
3i aims to continue to be included within this Index and to maintain its performance.
Each of 3is business unit and department heads is required to confirm on an annual basis that their operating procedures, including investment procedures, are consistent with 3is standards and controls and that these procedures are operating in practice.
3i is clearly It is a real positioned achievement to among the best be one of the in the financial Companies that 3i Group plc 91 Waterloo Road services Count.
com This booklet was manufactured using paper which conforms to the EMAS and ISO 14001 international standards and has been laminated using biodegradable lamination.
