SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER REGISTER ENQUIRIES All administrative enquiries relating to Shareholders such as queries concerning holdings, dividend payments, notication of change of address, loss of certicate or to be placed on a mailing list should be addressed to the Companys registrars: Shareholder Services Department, Capita Registrars Limited, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Hudderseld HD8 0LA.
com PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS The best way to ensure that dividends are received as quickly as possible is to instruct the Companys registrars, whose address is given above, to pay them directly into a bank account: tax vouchers are then mailed to Shareholders separately.
This method also avoids the risk of dividend cheques being delayed or lost in the post.
The Company also operates a Dividend Re-investment Plan to allow Shareholders to use their cash dividends to buy shares easily and at a low cost via the Companys registrars from whom the necessary forms are available.
SOURCES OF FURTHER INFORMATION The prices of the Ordinary Shares are quoted daily in the Financial Times, The Herald, The Telegraph and The Scotsman.
The price, together with the Net Asset Values and other financial data, can be found on the TrustNet website at www.
Other websites containing useful information on the Company are www.
Company performance and other relevant information is available on the Aberforth Partners website at www.
co. uk and are updated monthly.
HOW TO INVEST The Companys Ordinary Shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
They can be bought or sold by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through most banks.
The Companys Managers, Aberforth Partners, do not offer any packaged products such as ISAs, PEPs, Savings Schemes or Pension Plans.
SEDOL Bloomberg Reuters Security Codes Ordinary Shares of 1p 0-006-655 ASL LN ASL.
L ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING You may register your vote on-line by visiting the Capita Registrars website at www.
In order to register your vote on-line, you will need to enter your name, postal code and investor code which is given on the form of proxy.
If you are a member of CREST, you may register the appointment of a proxy by .
Completionofa form of proxy or the appointment of a proxy electronically will not stop you attending the meeting and voting in person should you so wish.
AITC The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Trust Companies which produces a detailed Monthly Information Service on the majority of investment trusts.
This can be obtained by contacting The Association of Investment Trust Companies, 9th Floor, 24 Chiswell Street, London EC1Y 4YY Website: www.
42 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL CALENDAR Results For the half year to 30 June announced July For the full year to 31 December announced January Ordinary Share Dividends Interim Ex-dividend July August Payable September Final Ex-dividend January February Payable March Interim Report Published July Annual Report and Accounts Published January Annual General Meeting February Publication of Net Asset Values Weekly via Aberforth Partners website Monthly as weekly and also via AITC Website Content Update Weekly Monthly GLOSSARY OF TECHNICAL TERMS Discount is the amount by which the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share is lower than the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
The discount is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
Expense Ratio is the total annual operating costs net of any tax relief, excluding interest costs, divided by the average Shareholders funds calculated per AITC guidelines.
Market Capitalisation of a Company is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Net Asset Value, also described as Shareholders funds, is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include borrowings as well as current liabilities.
The Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share is calculated by dividing this amount by the total number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Net Asset Value Total Return represents the theoretical return on Shareholders funds per share assuming that net dividends gross dividends prior to 2 July 1997 paid to Shareholders were reinvested in the Net Asset Value at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Premium is the amount by which the stockmarket price per Ordinary Share exceeds the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
The premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
