NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING  held at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh on 23 February 2005 at 18:15 for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to 31 December 2004 be adopted.
That the payment of the final dividend of 7.25p per Ordinary Share be approved.
That Mr D R Shaw be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr H N Buchan be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr M L A Chiappelli be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr J E G Cran be re-elected as a Director.
That Prof P R Marsh be elected as a Director.
That Dr W S Nimmo be elected as a Director.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2004 be approved.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Ordinary Resolution: 11.
That the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust as dened in Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Special Resolutions: 12.
That pursuant to and in accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company on the date on which this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1p being the nominal value of a Share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 July 2006 or, if earlier, at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2006, save that the Company may, prior tosuch expiry, enter intoa contractto purchase Sharesundersuch authoritywhich will ormight  expiryof  Sharespursuant to any such contract.
That Article 2 of the Articles of Association of the Company be amended by appending to the end of the clause Expressions referring to writing shall be construed as including references to any method of representing or reproducing words in a legible form the words and, without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, shall also include any electronic communications or systems approved by the directors for the facilitation of electronic proxy voting or appointment.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners, Secretaries 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS 20 January 2005 The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 4 March 2005 to Shareholders on the Register at 4 February 2005.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
Such a proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
You will require your investor code.
CREST users should note they can lodge their proxy votes for the meeting through the CREST proxy voting system.
For further instructions users should refer to the CREST User Manual.
Any CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor.
