BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Shareholder information ANALYSIS OF REGISTERED HOLDINGS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2004 Number Shares Distribution of ordinary shares by type of shareholder ofholdings m Nominees and institutional investors 11 123 3 114 Individuals 833 768 422 844 891 3 536 Number Shares Range analysis of register of holdings m 1 500 599 488 152 501 1 000 159 344 106 1 001 5 000 78 441 134 5 001 10 000 4 663 32 10 001 50 000 1 651 30 50 001 100 000 269 20 100 001 1 000 000 678 243 1 000 001 and above 357 2 819 844 891 3 536 Headquarters and Registered Registrar and Transfer Office American Depositary Receipts Office Address Lloyds TSB Registrars ADR Depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank 100 Thames Valley Park Drive The Causeway, Worthing PO Box 43013, Providence RI 02940-3013 USA Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT West Sussex BN99 6DA 1 800 990 1135 US toll-free 0118 935 3222 0870 600 3951 1 781 575 4328 outside USA www.
com shareholder AGENT FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE USA covering both the interim and final dividend payments.
The CT Corporation consolidated tax voucher enclosed with this Annual Report covers all Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, dividends paid during the 2004 2005 tax year.
If you have more than fide 19801 USA one shareholder account in the same name s you will receive a separate letter in respect of the shareholdings in addition to the one 132 BG GROUP PLC CORPORATE INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS shown on the consolidated tax voucher enclosed with this Annual ISAs Report.
Shareholders wishing to receive a tax voucher in respect of Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite Ltd each dividend payment should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars at the 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QN above address or call 0870 600 3951.
020 7597 1500 OVERSEAS DIVIDEND PAYMENTS ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS A service has been established to provide shareholders in over 30 Shareview, the electronic shareholder communications service from countries with the opportunity to receive BG Group dividends in Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives you access to more information about your their local currency.
For a small flat rate fee, shareholders can have shareholding including balance movements, indicative share prices and their dividends automatically converted from Sterling and paid into information on recent dividend payments.
It also allows you to change their bank account, normally within five working days of the your registered address details, set up a dividend mandate or change dividend payment date.
For further details, please contact Lloyds TSB your existing mandate details.
To register for this free service, visit Registrars at the above address or call 44 0 121 415 7029. www.
co. uk and follow the simple instructions.
You will need your shareholder reference number which can be found on your GIFTING YOUR SHARES dividend tax voucher.
Through Shareview you can also register to To transfer your shares to another member of your family as a gift, receive Company communications electronically.
please ask the Registrar for a gift transfer form.
The completed transfer form with the relevant share certificate s should be VOTING ELECTRONICALLY returned to the Registrar to record the change in ownership.
If you All shareholders can submit proxies for the Annual General have a small number of shares and would like to donate them to Meeting electronically at www.
co. uk charity, please ask the Registrar for a ShareGift charity donation scheme transfer form.
Information is also available on the Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with ShareGift website at www.
org Shareview can appoint a proxy by logging on to Shareview and then clicking on Company Meetings.
LOW COST SHARE DEALING SERVICES CONSOLIDATED TAX VOUCHERS Information on a range of low cost share dealing services is Shareholders who have elected to have their dividends paid direct available from Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3951 or at into their bank account receive just one tax voucher each year www.
com dealing BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Additional shareholder information THIS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS INCORPORATES THE US FORM 20-F On 16 October 2000, the Companys shareholders approved the BG Group plc is the legal and commercial name of the SEC demerger of certain businesses principally Transco to Lattice, registrant.
BG Group plc is a public limited company listed on the effective on 23 October 2000.
This demerger created a new listed London and New York Stock Exchanges and registered in England.
company, Lattice Group plc which has since merged with National This is the report and accounts for the year ended 31 December Grid plc to become National Grid Transco plc.
It complies with UK regulations and incorporates the annual business demerged to Lattice Group was Transco, which owns, report on Form 20-F except for the US Report of Independent operates and develops the substantial majority of the gas Accountants which is included in our Form 20-F filing with the US transportation system and all the LNG storage facilities in Great Securities and Exchange Commission to meet US regulations.
Following demerger, the Company continued to own BG Annual Review including the Summary Financial Statement for the Energy Holdings, comprising the business involved in the year ended 31 December 2004 has been issued to all shareholders development, management and supply of existing and newly who have not elected to receive this report and accounts.
emerging gas markets around the world.
The special rights redeemable preference share in the Company held by the UK HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY Secretary of State for Trade and Industry was redeemed.
The Company is a public limited company incorporated in England On 28 November 2001, BG Groups Storage segment was sold and Wales on 30 December 1998 under the Companies Act 1985. to Dynegy Inc. of the USA for a consideration of 421m.
It is of infinite duration.
The UK gas industry was nationalised in 1948 and the British Gas Corporation was established in 1973.
In April 1986, British Gas was incorporated as a public limited company and in December 1986 the UK Government sold substantially all its shareholdings in British Gas to the public.
With effect from 17 February 1997, Centrica plc demerged from BG plc.
Following the Centrica demerger, BG plc retained the gas transportation and storage businesses, the majority of the exploration and production business, the international downstream business, the research and technology business and the property division of British Gas plc.
In connection with the Centrica demerger, British Gas plcs gas sales, services and retail businesses, together with the gas production business of the 133 North and South Morecambe gas fields and its direct interest in Accord Energy Limited, were transferred to Centrica plc.
With effect from 1 May 1999, BG plc combined its exploration and production and international downstream businesses which principally engaged in gas and oil exploration and production and the integrated development and supply of gas markets.
With effect from 13 December 1999, the Group was restructured so that the Company, a newly incorporated company, became the new parent company of the Group.
The Company held the Transco business in a separate sub-group, including BG Transco plc now called Transco plc, ring-fenced for regulatory purposes, from the sub-group containing the other Group businesses.
The restructuring was accompanied by a refinancing under which BG Transco Holdings plc now called Transco Holdings plc issued around 1.5bn of bonds which were transferred together with new shares in the Company to shareholders in exchange for their existing shares in BG plc now called Transco plc.
The UK Secretary of State for Trade and Industry held a special rights redeemable preference share in the Company.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Additional shareholder information continued ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE The Company is the ultimate parent of the Group.
The following is a list of the Companys principal subsidiary undertakings: Group Country of holding as at 31 December 2004 incorporation Activity % a BG Energy Holdings Limited England Group holding company 100.0 BG International Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 BG International CNS Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 BG International NSW Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 BG Karachaganak Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 British Gas Tunisia Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 British Gas Trinidad and Tobago Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 British Gas Asia Pacific Pte Limited Singapore Exploration and production 100.0 BG North Sea Holdings Limited England Exploration and production 100.0 BG Egypt S. A. Cayman Islands Exploration and production 100.0 BG Exploration and Production India Limited Cayman Islands Exploration and production 100.0 BG Canada Exploration and Production, Inc. Canada Exploration and production 100.0 Mauritania Holdings BV Netherlands Exploration and production 100.0 BG LNG Services, LLC USA LNG shipping and marketing 100.0 BG Gas Marketing Limited England LNG marketing 100.0 b Companhia fide Gs fide So Paulo COMGAS Brazil Gas distribution 72.9 c MetroGAS S. A. Argentina Gas distribution 45.1 Gujarat Gas Company Limited India Gas distribution 65.1 Premier Power Limited Northern Ireland Power generation 100.0 Shares are held by the Company where marked with an asterisk: others are held by subsidiary undertakings.
a There is no difference between the Group holding of ordinary shares and the Groups share of net assets attributable to equity shareholders with the exception of COMGAS, where the Groups share of net assets is 60.1%.
b BG Group holds its interest in Companhia fide Gs fide So Paulo COMGAS Comgas indirectly through its wholly-owned subsidiary undertaking BG So Paulo Investments B. V. which holds a 95.8% interest in Integral Investments B. V. which, in turn, holds ordinary shares in Comgas.
c Although BG Group only has a 45.1% holding in MetroGAS S. A. MetroGAS it has a controlling interest through a 54.7% holding in Gas Argentino S. A. which has a 70% interest in MetroGAS, together with a 6.8% holding in MetroGAS via wholly-owned subsidiary undertakings.
134 LISTING AND PRICE HISTORY The principal trading market for the Companys ordinary shares is the London Stock Exchange.
American Depositary Shares ADSs, each representing five ordinary shares and evidenced by ADRs, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank as depositary and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
The table below sets out, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low quoted prices for the Companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and the high and low quoted prices for the shares in the form of ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Past performance of the Companys ordinary shares cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS treated as an interest of the alternate Director, in addition to any The Companys authorised share capital consists of ordinary interest which the alternate Director has in his own right.
A Director shares with a nominal value of 10p each.
So far as the Company may not be included in the quorum of a meeting in relation to any is aware, no person is the beneficial owner of 5% or more of the resolution on which he is not allowed to vote.
Borrowing powers As at 4 March 2005, 11 580 979 ADSs equivalent to 57 904 895 So far as the relevant English law allows, the Directors can exercise ordinary shares or approximately 1.64% of the total outstanding all the powers of the Company to a borrow money, b issue ordinary shares were outstanding and held of record by 241 debentures and other securities, and c give any form of guarantee registered holders in the USA.
The Company is aware that many and security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or ADSs are held of record by brokers and other nominees and, of any third party.
accordingly, the above numbers are not necessarily representative of the actual number of persons who are beneficial holders of ADSs The Directors must limit the Borrowings as defined in the Articles or the number of ADSs beneficially held by such persons.
of the Company and exercise all voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable by the Company in relation to its subsidiary As at 4 March 2005, there were about 831 000 holders of record of undertakings, so as to ensure that the total amount of all BG Group plc ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 2 500 had Borrowings by the Group as defined in the Articles outstanding registered addresses in the USA and held a total of some 1 140 162 at any time will not exceed twice the Adjusted Total Capital and BG Group plc ordinary shares, approximately 0.03% of the total Reserves as defined in the Articles at such time.
This limit may be outstanding ordinary shares.
In addition, certain accounts of record exceeded if the Companys consent has been given in advance by with registered addresses other than in the USA hold BG Group plc an ordinary resolution passed at a general meeting.
ordinary shares, in whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
As far as is known to the Company, it is not directly or indirectly Shareholder meetings owned or controlled by another company or by any government or There are two types of meetings of shareholders, AGMs and any other natural or legal person, and there are no arrangements Extraordinary General Meetings EGMs.
The Company must hold known to the Company, the operation of which may result in a an AGM in each calendar year, not more than 15 months from the change of control.
The Directors will decide when and where to hold the AGM.
Any other general meeting is known as an EGM.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Directors can decide to call an EGM at any time.
In addition, The Company is incorporated in England and Wales under an EGM must be called by the Directors promptly in response to a Company Number 3690065. requisition by shareholders under the relevant English law.
When 135 an EGM is called, the Directors must decide when and where to The Memorandum of the Company provides that the Company hold it.
At least 21 clear days notice in writing or, where the has general commercial objects including to act as a holding relevant legislation permits, by electronic mail must be given for company or an investment holding company and to carry on the every AGM and for any other meeting where it is proposed to pass business of transporting, manufacturing, processing, storing and a special resolution or to pass some other resolution of which dealing in different forms of energy including natural gases, special notice under the Companies Act 1985 has been given to the petroleum and electricity.
For every other general meeting, at least 14 clear days The Articles of Association Articles of the Company and notice in writing or, where the relevant legislation permits, by applicable English law contain, among others, provisions to the electronic mail must be given.
following effect: There must be a quorum present at every general meeting.
Unless provided otherwise in the Articles, a quorum is two people who are Directors entitled to vote.
General Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of the Unless a poll is demanded, a resolution that is put to the vote Company, there must be at least four Directors.
A Director need at a general meeting will be decided by a show of hands.
not be a shareholder, but a Director who is not a shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
Transfer of shares Unless otherwise provided in the Articles or the terms of issue of At each Annual General Meeting AGM, any Director who was any shares, any shareholder may transfer any or all of his shares.
elected or last re-elected a Director at or before the AGM held in However, the Directors can refuse to register a transfer a in the third calendar year before the current year shall automatically certificated form, if such shares are not fully paid up or the retire from office.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election evidence of entitlement to such shares is missing, b if it is in by the shareholders.
respect of more than one class of share, c if it is in favour of more No maximum age limit for Directors applies.
than four persons jointly, or d if it is not properly stamped where required.
However, if any of those shares have been admitted to the 2.
Directors interests Official List of the London Stock Exchange, the Directors cannot Unless otherwise provided in the Articles, a Director cannot cast refuse to register a transfer if this would stop dealings in the shares a vote on any contract, arrangement or any other kind of proposal from taking place on an open and proper basis.
in which he knows he has a material interest.
For this purpose, If the Directors decide not to register a transfer, they must notify the interests of a person who is connected with a Director under Section person to whom the shares were to be transferred within two months.
346 of the Companies Act 1985 are added to the interests of the Director himself.
Interests purely as a result of an interest in the The Directors can decide to suspend the registration of transfers Companys shares, debentures or other securities are disregarded.
In by closing the Register, but the Register cannot be closed for more relation to an alternate Director, an interest of his appointor shall be than 30 days per year.
In the case of shares in uncertificated form, BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Additional shareholder information continued the Register must not be closed without the consent of the 3.
Variation of rights operator of a relevant system currently CRESTCo Limited, the If the Companys share capital is split into different classes of operator of a relevant system under the UK CREST Regulations.
shares, subject to the relevant English law and unless the Articles or rights attaching to any class of shares provide otherwise, the Share capital special rights which are attached to any of these classes can be The Companys authorised share capital is 500 000 001, varied or abrogated as provided by those rights or approved by consisting of 5 000 000 010 ordinary shares of 10p each.
an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of that class.
Alternatively, the holders of at least three-quarters of the Shareholders rights existing shares of the class by nominal value can give their 1.
Voting rights consent in writing.
When a shareholder is entitled to attend a general meeting and vote, he has only one vote on a show of hands.
A proxy cannot vote Alteration of share capital on a show of hands.
Where there is a poll, subject to any special The shareholders can by ordinary resolutions a increase the rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, a shareholder Companys authorised share capital, b consolidate, or consolidate who is entitled to be present and to vote has one vote for every and then divide, all or any of the Companys share capital into share which he holds.
shares of a larger nominal amount than the existing shares, c cancel any shares which have not been taken, or agreed to To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice be taken, by any person at the date of the resolution, and reduce of the meeting can give a time by which people must be entered the amount of the Companys share capital by the amount of the on the Register which must not be more than 48 hours before the cancelled shares, and d subject to the relevant English law divide meeting.
Unless provided otherwise in the Articles, the only people some or all of the Companys shares into shares which are of who can attend or vote at general meetings are shareholders who a smaller nominal amount than is fixed in the Memorandum.
have paid the Company all calls, and all other sums, relating to the shares which are due at the time of the meeting.
The shareholders can, subject to the relevant English law, pass a special resolution to a reduce the Companys authorised share 2.
Restrictions on shareholders rights capital in any way or b reduce any capital redemption reserve, If a shareholder has been properly served with a notice under share premium account or other undistributable reserve in any way.
Section 212 of the Companies Act 1985 requiring information about The Company can, subject to the relevant English law, buy back, or interests in shares, and has failed to supply such information agree to buy back in the future, any shares of any class.
However, within 14 days of the notice, then subject to the Articles and if the Company has existing shares which are admitted to the unless the Directors otherwise decide the shareholder is not for Official List of the London Stock Exchange and which are so long as the default continues entitled to attend or vote at a 136 convertible into equity shares, then the Company can only buy shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right in relation to a back equity shares of that class if either the terms of issue of the meeting as holder of any shares held by the shareholder in default.
convertible shares permit the Company to buy back equity shares Any person who acquires shares in relation to which a default has or the buy back or agreement to buy back has been approved by occurred Default Shares is subject to the same restrictions unless: an extraordinary resolution passed by such holders.
the transfer was an approved transfer pursuant to a takeover Dividends or one which, to the Directors satisfaction, is a bona fide sale The shareholders can declare final or interim dividends by ordinary to a person unconnected with the shareholder: or resolution.
No dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the transfer was by a shareholder who was not himself in the Directors.
No interim dividend shall be paid on shares which default in supplying the information required by the notice carry deferred or non-preferred rights if, at the time of payment, and a the transfer is of only part of his holding and b the any preferential dividend is in arrears.
Unless the rights attaching transfer is accompanied by a certificate in a form satisfactory to shares or the terms of any shares provide otherwise, dividends to the Directors stating that, after due and careful enquiries, are paid based on the amounts which have been paid up on the the shareholder is satisfied that none of the shares included shares in the relevant period.
in the transfer are Default Shares.
The Directors can recommend the shareholders to pass an ordinary Where the Default Shares represent 0.25% or more of the existing resolution to direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by shares of a class, the Directors can, in their absolute discretion, distributing specific assets.
The Directors must give effect to such by notice to the shareholder direct that a any dividend or other a resolution.
money which would otherwise be payable on the Default Shares If a dividend has not been claimed for one year, the Directors may shall be retained by the Company without any liability to pay invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of interest when that dividend or money is finally paid to the the Company until the dividend is claimed.
Any dividend which has shareholder and or b the shareholder will not be allowed to not been claimed for 12 years may be forfeited and belong to the choose to receive shares in place of dividends and or c no transfer Company if the Directors so decide.
of any of the shares held by the shareholder will be registered unless one of the provisos specified above is satisfied.
Winding up If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the authority of an extraordinary resolution and any other sanction required by relevant law, divide among the shareholders all or part of the assets of the Company or transfer any part of the assets to trustees on trust for the benefit of the shareholders.
No past or present shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which carries a liability.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Rights of foreign shareholders US holders should be aware that the New Convention generally There are no limitations imposed by the relevant English law or will have effect in respect of dividends paid in 2004.
However, a US the Articles on the rights to own securities, including the rights holder entitled to benefits under the 1980 Convention could elect of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or exercise voting to have the provisions of the 1980 Convention continue until 1 May rights on the securities.
2004 if the election to apply the 1980 Convention would have resulted in greater benefits to the holder.
If a US holder validly Notification of interest in shares made this election in 2003, the discussion below with respect to Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 requires any shareholder, dividend payments made pursuant to the 1980 Convention would subject to exceptions, who acquires an interest of 3% or more or, continue to apply to any dividends paid by the Company prior to in the case of certain interests, 10% or more in the shares to notify 1 May 2004.
The discussion below notes the instances in which the the Company of his interest within two business days following relevant provisions of the New Convention would produce a the day on which the obligation to notify arises.
After the 3% or materially different result for a validly electing US holder.
10%, as the case may be, level is exceeded, similar notification US holders should note that certain articles in the New Convention must be made in respect of the whole percentage figure increases limit or restrict the ability of a US holder to claim benefits under or decreases.
the New Convention and that similar provisions were not contained in the 1980 Convention.
US holders should consult their MATERIAL CONTRACTS own tax advisors concerning the applicability of each convention.
No contract other than those entered into in the ordinary course of business has been entered into in the two years preceding the date This discussion does not address all aspects of US federal income of this document by the Company or its subsidiary undertakings taxation that may apply to holders subject to special tax rules, and is, or may be, material to the Company or the Group or has including US expatriates, insurance companies, tax-exempt been entered into by the Company or its subsidiary undertakings organisations, banks and other financial institutions, regulated and contains obligations or entitlements which are, or may be, investment companies, securities broker-dealers, traders in material to the Group.
securities who elect to apply a mark-to-market method of accounting, persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, EXCHANGE CONTROLS investors that own directly, indirectly or by attribution 10% or There are currently no UK exchange control laws, decrees or more of the outstanding share capital or voting stock of the regulations that restrict or would affect the transfer of capital or Company, persons holding their ADSs as part of a straddle, payments of dividends, interest or other payments to US citizens hedging transaction or conversion transaction, persons who or residents who are holders of the Companys securities except acquired their ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or similar as otherwise set out under Taxation below.
derivative securities or otherwise as compensation, or persons 137 whose functional currency is not the US$, among others.
Those TAXATION holders may be subject to US federal income tax consequences The taxation discussion set out below is intended only as a different from those set forth below.
summary of the principal US federal and UK tax consequences to For the purposes of the conventions between the US and UK for US holders as described below of ADSs and does not purport to the avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on dividend be a complete analysis or listing of all potential tax consequences income and capital gains and estate and gift taxes and for the of owning ADSs.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of ADSs who purposes of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, as holds the ADSs as capital assets and is one of the following: a a discussed below, a US holder of ADSs will be treated as the beneficial citizen or individual resident of the United States, b a corporation owner of the underlying ordinary shares represented thereby.
or certain other entities taxable as corporations for US federal income tax purposes organised under the laws of the United Taxation of dividends States or any state thereof, c an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its source, or d a trust if UK taxation of dividends a court within the United States is able to exercise primary Under current UK tax legislation, no UK tax will be withheld supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more from dividend payments made by the Company.
US persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions Under the 1980 Convention, subject to certain exceptions, a US of the trust.
If a partnership or other entity treated as a holder of ADSs who is a resident of the US and is not a resident partnership for US tax purposes holds ADSs, the tax treatment of of the UK for the purposes of the 1980 Convention is generally a partner generally will depend upon the status of the partner and entitled to receive, in addition to any dividend that the Company the activities of the partnership.
Investors are advised to consult pays, a payment from the UK Inland Revenue in respect of such their tax advisers with respect to the tax consequences of their dividend equal to the tax credit to which an individual resident holdings and sales, including the consequences under applicable in the UK for UK tax purposes would have been entitled had that US state and local law.
The statements of US and UK tax laws set individual received the dividend which is currently equal to oneout below, except as otherwise stated, are based on the laws in ninth of the dividend received reduced by a UK withholding tax force as of the date of this Annual Report and Accounts and are equal to an amount not exceeding 15% of the sum of the dividend subject to any changes occurring after that date in US or UK law.
paid and the UK tax credit payment.
At current rates, the The discussion is also based on the US-UK Income Tax Convention withholding tax entirely eliminates the tax credit payment but no that entered into force on 25 April 1980, as amended by Protocols withholding in excess of the tax credit payment will be imposed the 1980 Convention and the US-UK Income Tax Convention that upon the US holder.
Thus, for example, a US holder who receives a entered into force on 31 March 2003, as amended by a Protocol 100 dividend will also be treated as receiving from the UK Inland the New Convention, as both the 1980 Convention and the New Revenue a tax credit payment of 11.11 one-ninth of the dividend Convention may be applicable to US holders depending on received but the entire 11.11 payment will be eliminated by UK individual circumstances as described below.
withholding tax, resulting in a net receipt of 100.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Additional shareholder information continued Under the New Convention, there is no right to receive, in addition If a US holder is a non-corporate US holder the US$ amount of to any dividend that the Company pays, a payment from the UK any dividends paid to it prior to 1 January 2009 that constitute Inland Revenue in respect of such dividend or any UK tax credit qualified dividend income generally will be taxable at a maximum that may be associated with such dividend.
rate of 15%, provided that the US holder meets certain holding period and other requirements.
The Company currently believes US federal income taxation of dividends that dividends paid with respect to its ADSs will constitute The gross amount of dividends including any additional dividend qualified dividend income for the US federal income tax purposes, income arising from a foreign tax credit claim as described below however, this is a factual matter and subject to change.
The US paid to a US holder of ADSs will be taxable as ordinary income.
The Treasury and the US Internal Revenue Service have announced amount to be included in gross income will be the US$ value of the their intention to promulgate rules pursuant to which US holders payment at the time the distribution is actually or constructively of ADSs, among others, will be permitted to rely on certifications received by the ADS Depositary.
For foreign tax credit limitation from issuers to establish that dividends are treated as qualified purposes, dividends paid by the Company will be income from dividends.
US holders of ADSs are urged to consult their own tax sources outside the United States.
Pounds Sterling received by a advisers regarding the availability to them of the reduced dividend US holder of ADSs will have a tax basis equal to the value at the rate in light of their own particular situation and the computations time of the distribution.
Any gain or loss realised on a subsequent of the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualified sale or other disposition of the pounds Sterling will be US source dividends paid to them, as applicable.
TAXATION OF CAPITAL GAINS The US Treasury has expressed concern that parties to whom ADSs A holder of ADSs will be liable for UK tax on capital gains accruing are released may be taking actions inconsistent with the claiming on a disposal of ADSs only if such holder is resident or ordinarily of foreign tax credits for US holders of ADSs.
Accordingly, the resident for tax purposes in the UK or if such holder carries on a analysis above of the creditability of the Withholding Tax could be trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a branch, agency or affected by future actions that may be taken by the US Treasury.
permanent establishment and the ADSs are used, held or acquired Dividends paid will be treated as passive income for purposes of for the purposes of the trade, profession or vocation of the branch, agency or permanent establishment.
Special rules can also impose computing allowable foreign tax credits for US federal income tax UK capital gains tax on disposals by individuals who recommence purposes or for certain US holders, as financial services income.
UK residence after a period of non-residence.
US citizens or Under recently enacted legislation, for taxable years beginning corporations who are so liable for UK tax may be liable for both UK 1 January 2007, dividend income generally will constitute passive and US tax in respect of a gain on the disposal of ADSs.
However, category income, or in the case of certain US holders, general such persons generally will be entitled to a tax credit against their category income.
Under the 1980 Convention, a US holder that is 138 US federal tax liability for the amount of the UK tax paid in respect eligible for benefits with respect to income derived in connection of such gain subject to applicable credit limitations.
with the ADSs each such holder referred to as an eligible US holder and that validly elected to claim the benefits of the 1980 Convention For US federal income tax purposes, a US holder generally will in 2003 with respect to a dividend from the Company will be entitled recognise a capital gain or loss on the sale or other disposition of to a foreign tax credit for the UK tax notionally withheld with respect ADSs held as capital assets, in an amount equal to the difference to such dividend paid before 1 May 2004.
If an eligible US holder is so between the US$ value of the amount realised on the disposition entitled, the foreign tax credit would be equal to one-ninth of any and the US holders adjusted tax basis, determined in US$, in the dividend received and would give rise to additional dividend income ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally will be treated as US source gain or in the same amount.
Each eligible US holder that relies on the 1980 loss, and will be treated as a long-term capital gain or loss if the US Convention to claim a foreign tax credit under these circumstances holders holding period in the ADSs exceeds one year at the time of must file IRS Form 8833 Treaty-Based Return Position Disclosure disposition.
In the case of a US holder who is an individual, capital disclosing this reliance with its US federal income tax return for the gains, if any, generally will be subject to US federal income tax at year in which the foreign tax credit is claimed.
In order to obtain this preferential rates if specified minimum holding periods are met.
The benefit in a particular year, a US holder generally must elect to claim deductibility of capital losses is subject to significant limitations.
the credit with respect to all foreign taxes paid or treated as paid in that year.
US holders that do not elect to claim a credit with respect US INFORMATION REPORTING AND BACKUP WITHHOLDING to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may instead claim A US holder who holds ADSs may in certain circumstances be a deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does not reduce US subject to information reporting to the IRS and possible US backup federal income tax on a dollar for dollar basis like a tax credit.
The withholding at a current rate of 28% with respect to dividends on deduction, however, is not subject to the limitations described above.
ADSs and proceeds from the sale, exchange or other disposition of US holders are advised that under the New Convention there is no ADSs unless such holder furnishes a correct taxpayer identification notional UK withholding tax applied to a dividend payment and it number or certificate of foreign status and makes any other therefore will not be possible to claim a foreign tax credit in respect required certification, or is otherwise exempt from backup of any dividend payment made by the Company in 2004 or after withholding.
US persons who are required to establish their 1 May 2004 in the case of a US holder who effectively elected to exempt status generally must provide IRS Form W-9 Request for extend the applicability of the 1980 Convention as described above.
Taxpayer Identification Number and Certification.
Non-US holders The rules governing the foreign tax credit are complex.
Each US generally will not be subject to US information reporting or backup holder is urged to consult its own tax advisor concerning whether withholding.
However, such holders may be required to provide the holder is eligible for benefits under the 1980 Convention and certification of non-US status generally on IRS Form W-8BEN in the New Convention, and whether, and to what extent, a foreign connection with payments received in the US or through certain tax credit will be available with respect to dividends received from US-related financial intermediaries.
Backup withholding is not an the Company.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 credited against a holders US federal income tax liability.
A holder The following table presents the aggregate fees for professional may obtain a refund of any excess amounts withheld under the services and other services rendered by  backup withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund LLP to BG Group in 2004 and 2003. with the IRS and furnishing any required information.
2004 2003 m m a INHERITANCE TAX Audit fees 2.6 1.7 ADSs held by an individual, who is domiciled in the US for the b Audit-related fees 0.4 0.1 purposes of the Convention between the US and the UK for the c Tax fees 0.4 0.4 avoidance of double taxation with respect to taxes on estates and d All other fees 0.2 gifts the Estate Tax Convention and is not for the purposes of the Total 3.4 2.4 Estate Tax Convention a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a transfer of the a Audit fees consist of fees billed for the annual audit services engagement and other audit services, which are those services that only the external ADSs during the individuals lifetime unless the ADSs form part of auditor can reasonably provide, and include the Group audit, statutory the business property of a permanent establishment situated in audits, comfort letters and consents, attest services and assistance with the UK or pertain to a fixed base in the UK used for the and review of documents filed with the SEC.
performance of independent personal services.
In the exceptional b Audit-related fees consist of fees billed for assurance and related services that are reasonably related to the performance of the audit or review of the case where ADSs are subject both to UK inheritance tax and to Companys Financial Statements or that are traditionally performed by the US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally external auditor, and include consultations concerning financial accounting provides for the tax paid in the UK to be credited against tax and reporting standards: internal control reviews of new systems, programmes and projects, review of security controls and operational payable in the US or for the tax paid in the US to be credited effectiveness of systems, review of plans and controls for shared service against tax payable in the UK based on priority rules set forth centres, due diligence related to acquisitions: accounting assistance and in the Estate Tax Convention.
audits in connection with proposed or completed acquisitions and employee benefit plan audits.
c Tax fees include fees billed for tax compliance services, including the STAMP DUTY AND STAMP DUTY RESERVE TAX preparation of original and amended tax returns and claims for refund, tax No UK stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of consultations, such as assistance and representation in connection with tax ADSs if there is no instrument of transfer.
If there is an instrument audits and appeals, tax advice related to mergers and acquisitions, transfer pricing, and requests for rulings or technical advice from taxing authorities, of transfer then provided that the instrument of transfer is not tax planning services, and expatriate tax planning and services.
executed in the UK and remains at all times outside the UK d All other fees include fees billed for training, forensic accounting, data subsequently then in practice no UK stamp duty will be payable.
security reviews, treasury control reviews and process improvement and advice, and environmental, sustainability and corporate social responsibility Neither will an agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs advisory services.
give rise to a liability to stamp duty reserve tax.
An agreement to 139 purchase ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, will normally give AUDIT COMMITTEE PRE-APPROVAL POLICY AND PROCEDURES rise to a charge to UK stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax at the The Audit Committee annually agrees a framework of non-audit rate of 0.5% of the price.
Stamp duty reserve tax is the liability of activities, which are described with sufficient specificity to enable the purchaser and the stamp duty is normally also paid by the the Committee to ensure that the proposed activity will not purchaser.
Where such ordinary shares are later transferred to the compromise the independence of the external auditors.
For each depositarys nominee, further stamp duty or stamp duty reserve activity, the Committee approves a budget for the financial year.
tax will normally be payable at the rate of 1.5% of the price payable Accordingly, the Audit Committee is deemed to have given its prefor the ordinary shares so acquired.
approval in respect of individual assignments where the fees fall within the agreed framework and agreed budget for that service.
A transfer of ordinary shares by an instrument of transfer to the Pre-approval of assignments which are either outside the agreed relative ADS holder without transfer of beneficial ownership will in framework, or are within the agreed framework but not within principle give rise to UK stamp duty at the rate of 5 per transfer.
the agreed budget is delegated to the Audit Committee Chairman Transfers that are not sales will generally be exempt from the 5 or, in his absence, any other member of the Committee.
At each stamp duty charge if made under the CREST system for paperless meeting, the Committee receives a list of all the non-audit services share transfers.
provided by the external auditors, the specific nature of the work and the fees involved, for their review.
DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY All reports and other information that BG Group files with the SEC During 2004, 100% of Audit-related fees, 100% of Tax fees may be inspected at their public reference facilities at Room 1200, and 100% of all other fees provided to BG Group by 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549, USA.
These reports  LLP were approved by the Audit may also be accessed via the SECs website at www.
gov Committee pursuant to the pre-approval policy and procedures.
ACCOUNTANTS FEES AND SERVICES  LLP has served as BG Groups independent public accountants for each of the financial years in the three year period ended 31 December 2004, for which audited financial statements appear in this Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The auditors are elected at the AGM.
