BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Notice of sixth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc This document is important.
If you are in any doubt about its Resolution 6 content, you should consult an appropriate independent adviser.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in BG Group plc, please send this document and all accompanying documents to the Resolution 7 purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent That in accordance with Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 as through or to whom the sale or transfer was effected so that they amended the Act, the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary can be passed on to the person who now owns the shares.
BG International Limited each be and is hereby authorised: The sixth Annual General Meeting AGM of BG Group plc the a to make donations to EU political organisations not exceeding Company will be held in Hall 1 of the International Convention 25 000 in total: and Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA on Wednesday 4 May 2005 at 11.00am for the transaction of the business set out below.
b to incur EU political expenditure not exceeding 25 000 in total, during the period commencing on the date of this This Notice contains the resolutions to be voted on at the resolution and ending on the date of the Annual General Companys AGM.
Resolutions 1 to 9 below are ordinary resolutions Meeting of the Company in 2006 or, if earlier, 4 August 2006. which will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the resolutions.
Resolutions 10 to 13 are special For the purpose of this resolution, donations, EU political resolutions which will be passed if not less than 75% of the organisations and EU political expenditure have the meanings votes cast are in favour of the resolutions.
given to them in Section 347A of the Act.
The resolutions include proposals to amend the Memorandum Resolution 8 and Articles of Association of the Company.
The full terms and That the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 12.2 of the proposed text of the amendments will be available for inspection Companys Articles of Association be renewed and for this purpose: at the Meeting at the International Convention Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA from 10.00am until the conclusion of the Meeting and at a the Section 80 amount be 123 368 432: and 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT from the b the prescribed period be the period ending on the date of the date of this Notice until the conclusion of the Meeting.
Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2006 or, if earlier, A poll will be called on each of the resolutions set out below.
Further detail is set out in the explanatory notes.
Resolution 9 ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS That, in accordance with Article 82 of the Companys Articles of Association, the maximum aggregate fees that can be paid 140 Resolution 1 each year to the Directors of the Company excluding To receive the accounts and reports of the Directors and the amounts paid as special pay as defined under Article 83, Auditors for the year ended 31 December 2004. amounts paid as expenses under Article 84 and any payments under Article 85 of the Articles of Association be increased Resolution 2 from 500 000 to 1 000 000.
To approve the Remuneration Report as set out on pages 51 to 60 of the BG Group Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS 31 December 2004.
Resolution 10 Resolution 3 That the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities To declare a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December as defined in Section 94 of the Act, entirely paid for in cash: 2004 of 2.08 pence per ordinary share payable on 13 May 2005 to a of an unlimited amount in connection with a rights issue holders of ordinary shares on the register of shareholders of the as defined in the Companys Articles of Association : and Company at the close of business on 1 April 2005. b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, of an Resolution 4 amount up to 17 692 165, free of the restrictions in To elect Baroness Hogg as a Director of the Company.
Section 89 1 of the Act provided that: i this power shall expire on the date of the Annual General Resolution 5 Meeting of the Company in 2006 or, if earlier, 4 August To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the 2006 and is in substitution for all previous such powers, Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general which shall cease to have effect from the date of this meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
1 The following documents, which are available for inspection during 2 The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities normal business hours at the registered office of the Company on any Regulations 1995, specifies that only those holders of ordinary shares weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded, will also be registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on available for inspection at the place of the AGM from 10.00am on the 2 May 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the AGM in respect day of the Meeting until its conclusion: of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
i copies of all Directors service contracts and letters of appointment: Changes to entries on the register of members after 6.00pm ii the register of interests of the Directors in the share capital of the on 2 May 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any Company: and person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
iii the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and the Memorandum and Articles of Association amended to reflect the changes proposed by Resolutions 12 and 13.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Resolution, without affecting the validity of any allotment iii by the deletion of the full stop at the end of Clause 4.37.2 of securities already made under them: and and the insertion of : and.
ii during that period, the Directors can make offers and b The Companys Articles of Association be amended as follows: enter into agreements which would, or might, require i Article 107.2 be amended by the insertion of the following equity securities to be allotted after that period.
as the ninth bullet point: In working out the maximum amount of equity securities for the the funding of expenditure by one or more Directors purposes of paragraph b above, the nominal value of rights to in defending proceedings against him or them or subscribe for shares or to convert any securities into shares will be doing anything to enable such Director or Directors taken as the nominal value of the shares which would be allotted to avoid incurring such expenditure.
if the subscription or conversion takes place.
and by the insertion of the following as the tenth For the purposes of this Resolution: bullet point: a references except in paragraph b below to an allotment of indemnities in favour of Directors which are consistent equity securities shall include a sale of treasury shares: and with, or no more onerous than, the provisions of these Articles:.
b the power granted by this Resolution, insofar as it relates to the allotment of equity securities rather than the sale of ii by the deletion of Article 148.1 and the insertion of a new treasury shares, is granted pursuant to the authority under Article 148.1 as follows: Section 80 of the Act conferred by Resolution 8.
148.1 Subject to the provisions of, and so far as is permitted by and consistent with the legislation Resolution 11 and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised every Director, Company Secretary or other officer to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Company shall be indemnified by the of the Act of ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company Company out of its own funds against a any ordinary shares provided that: liability incurred by or attaching to him in a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised connection with any negligence, default, breach to be acquired is 353 843 302: of duty or breach of trust by him in relation to the Company or any associated company as defined b the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary in Section 309A 6 of the Companies Act 1985 share is 10 pence, the nominal value of that share: an Associated Company other than i any 141 c the maximum price which may be paid for any such ordinary liability to the Company or any Associated share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle Company and ii any liability of the kind referred market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the to in Sections 309B 3 or 4 of the Companies Act London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 1985: and b any other liability incurred by or days immediately preceding the day on which the share is attaching to him in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of his duties and or contracted to be purchased: and the exercise or purported exercise of his powers d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the and or otherwise in relation to or in connection Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2006 or, if earlier, with his duties, powers or office.
4 August 2006: but a contract for purchase may be made Where a Director, Company Secretary or other before such expiry which will or may be executed wholly or officer of the Company is indemnified against partly thereafter, and a purchase of ordinary shares may be any liability in accordance with this Article 148.1, made in pursuance of any such contract.
such indemnity shall extend to all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him Resolution 12 in relation thereto: That: iii by the deletion of all of the provisions of Article 148.2 with a Clause 4.37 of the Companys Memorandum of Association be the exception of the final sentence: Article 148.1 also covers amended: any liability to pay an amount in respect of shares acquired i by the insertion of a new Clause 4.37.3 as follows: by a nominee of the Company.
which shall remain: 4.37.3 to provide a Director, former Director, Company iv by the insertion of a new Article 148.6 as follows: Secretary or other officer of the Company with 148.6 Subject to the provisions of, and so far as is funds to meet expenditure incurred or to be permitted by and consistent with the legislation incurred by him in defending any criminal or civil and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, proceedings or in connection with any application the Company i shall provide a Director, Company under those provisions of the Companies Act 1985 Secretary or other officer of the Company with referred to in Section 337A of that Act and to do funds to meet expenditure incurred or to be anything to enable a Director, former Director, incurred by him in defending any criminal or civil Company Secretary or other officer of the proceedings or in connection with any application Company to avoid incurring such expenditure: under the provisions mentioned in Section 337A 2 ii by the deletion of and from the end of Clause 4.37.1 iii : of the Companies Act 1985 and ii shall do and anything to enable a Director, Company Secretary BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Notice of sixth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued or other officer of the Company to avoid incurring Election of Baroness Hogg Resolution 4 such expenditure, but so that the terms set out in The Companys Articles of Association require any Director newly Section 337A 4 to 6 of the Companies Act 1985 appointed by the Board to retire at the first Annual General shall apply to any such provision of funds or other Meeting following their appointment.
Baroness Hogg was things done.
appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director on 27 January 2005.
Biographical details of Baroness Hogg are given on page 45.
Resolution 13 In reviewing the recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning this election, the Board has concluded that Baroness That the Companys Articles of Association be further amended by Hogg is independent in character and judgement and will make an making the changes indicated in accordance with the document effective and valuable contribution to the Board and demonstrate produced to the sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company commitment to the role.
The Board unanimously recommends and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
Registered Office: By order of the Board Re-appointment and Remuneration of Auditors 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Ben Mathews Resolutions 5 and 6 Reading Company Secretary The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general Berkshire RG6 1PT meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, to hold Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 7 March 2005 office until the next such meeting.
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors propose that A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint  LLP be reappointed as Auditors of the a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of Company.
Resolution 6 proposes that the Audit Committee be him her.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
authorised to determine the level of the Auditors remuneration.
Further details of proxy appointment are given on page 144.
Political Donations Resolution 7 EXPLANATORY NOTES As stated in the Companys Statement of Business Principles, it is In line with the recommendations by Paul Myners and the the Companys policy not to make contributions to political parties.
Shareholder Voting Working Group issued in January 2004 the This policy is strictly adhered to and there is no intention to change Myners Report and with emerging best practice, voting at the it.
Section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 the Act includes very Meeting will be by poll rather than by show of hands.
The broad definitions of donations to EU political organisations and of Chairman will invite each shareholder and proxy present at the EU political expenditure which may have the effect of covering a meeting to complete a poll card indicating how they wish to cast number of normal business activities that would not be thought to 142 their votes in respect of each resolution.
In addition, the Chairman be political donations in the usual sense.
To avoid any possibility of will cast the votes for which he has been appointed as proxy.
Poll inadvertently contravening the Act, the Directors consider that it cards will be collected at the end of the meeting and the would be prudent to follow the procedure specified in the Act to preliminary results declared.
Once the results have been verified by obtain shareholder approval for the Company and BG International the Companys Registrar, they will be notified to the UK Listing Limited each to make donations to EU political organisations of up Authority and published on the Companys website.
to 25 000 and to incur EU political expenditure of up to 25 000 in the forthcoming year.
BG International Limited is a wholly-owned Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 1 subsidiary of the Company and is the largest employer in the Group.
This authority will not be used to make any political The Directors must lay before the Meeting the accounts of the donations as that expression would have been understood before Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2004, the Part XA of the Act became law.
Directors Report, the Remuneration Report and the Auditors Report on the accounts and the auditable part of the Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 8 Remuneration Report.
The Directors are currently authorised to allot relevant securities.
However, this authority terminates on the date of the 2005 Annual Remuneration Report Resolution 2 General Meeting.
This resolution proposes that such authority UK listed companies must put an ordinary resolution to be renewed and that the Directors be authorised to allot up to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting seeking approval of 1 233 684 315 ordinary shares for the period ending on the date of the the Remuneration Report.
The vote is advisory in nature, in that Companys Annual General Meeting in 2006 or, if earlier, 4 August payments made or promised to Directors will not have to be repaid 2006.
The authority represents one-third of the share capital of the in the event that the resolution is not passed.
Company in issue at 4 March 2005.
This amount complies with guidelines issued by investor bodies.
The Directors have no present Declaration of a Dividend Resolution 3 intention of issuing any relevant securities other than pursuant to A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 2.08 pence employee share schemes.
per ordinary share is recommended by the Directors.
A final dividend can be paid only after it has been declared by the Directors Fees Resolution 9 shareholders at a general meeting.
It is proposed that shareholders This resolution relates to fees payable to non-executive Directors.
declare this dividend by passing Resolution 3.
If so declared, the It is proposed that the maximum aggregate Directors fees that final dividend will be paid on 13 May 2005 to ordinary shareholders can be paid each year under Article 82 be increased from 500 000 who were on the register of the Company at the close of business to 1 000 000.
It is important for the Company to continue to on 1 April 2005.
ADR holders will be entitled to receive the US$ attract and retain non-executive directors of the highest calibre equivalent of 0.104 per ADS on 20 May 2005. and that they are adequately compensated for the vital role they An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 1.73 play.
The responsibilities of, and the time commitment expected pence per ordinary share was paid on 10 September 2004. from, non-executive directors have increased significantly in the BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 last few years and fees paid to non-executive directors are The total number of options to subscribe for equity shares increasing accordingly.
This proposed increase of the aggregate outstanding at 4 March 2005 is 54.2 million.
This represents 1.53% of fees limit will give the Company the flexibility, over time, to the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company bought back increase the non-executive Directors fees up to an aggregate total the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to the passing of 1 000 000 to ensure the retention of appropriately skilled and of this resolution and cancelled them, then the total number of committed people.
The amendment to the Article, if approved, will options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding at that date also provide the necessary flexibility for the appointment of any would represent 1.7% of the issued share capital as reduced additional non-executive directors.
Fees paid to Directors are fully following those repurchases.
At 4 March 2005, there are no disclosed each year in the Remuneration Report, which is put to warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding and no the general meeting for approval see Resolution 2. ordinary shares held in treasury.
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Resolution 10 Articles of Association Directors Indemnities and Funding of Directors Defence Costs Resolution 12 The Directors are currently authorised to allot unissued shares The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in Act 2004 inserts a new section 309A in the Companies Act 1985 proportion to their holdings a pre-emptive offer.
However, this which allows a company to indemnify its directors against any authority terminates on the date of the 2005 Annual General liability incurred by a director to any person other than the Meeting.
This resolution proposes that such authority be renewed Company or any associated company in connection with any and that the Directors be authorised to allot up to 176 921 651 negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation ordinary shares for cash without a pre-emptive offer being made to the Company.
This was previously prohibited under section 310 for the period ending on the date of the Companys Annual of the Companies Act 1985.
It also inserts a new section 337A in General Meeting in 2006 or, if earlier, 4 August 2006.
Following the the Companies Act 1985 which allows a company to provide its introduction of the Treasury Shares Regulations, this authority will directors with funds to cover the costs incurred by a director in now also cover the sale of treasury shares for cash.
The authority defending legal proceedings against him or her.
Previously, a represents approximately 5% of the share capital in issue at company has only been able to fund a directors defence costs 4 March 2005.
This amount complies with guidelines issued by once final judgment in their favour has been reached.
Since directors are increasingly being added as defendants in legal Authority to Make Market Purchases of Own Ordinary Shares actions against companies, and litigation is often very lengthy Resolution 11 and expensive, the Board believes that the risk of directors being In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company placed under significant personal financial strain is increasing.
The to purchase its own ordinary shares and Resolution 11 seeks Board believes that the provision of appropriate indemnities and 143 authority from shareholders to do so.
The Directors intend to the funding of directors defence costs as they are incurred, as exercise this power only when, in the light of market conditions permitted by the new legislation, are reasonable protection for prevailing at the time, they believe that to do so would be in the the Directors, and are important to ensure that the Company best interests of shareholders generally.
Before deciding on the continues to attract and retain the highest calibre of directors.
course of action, the Directors would take into account the impact The Board therefore proposes that the Memorandum and Articles of any purchase on earnings per share, as well as other investment of Association be amended to reflect the new statutory provisions.
opportunities and the overall financial position of the Company.
The effect of the proposed resolution is: Any shares purchased in this way will, unless the Directors i To amend the wording of the existing indemnity in Article 148 determine that they are to be held as treasury shares see below, to reflect the new provisions.
The deleted provisions reflect the be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced language of the old statutory provisions and are therefore outaccordingly.
Shares held in treasury will not automatically be of-date.
The proposed amendment to Article 107.2 is to ensure cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations that the Directors can collectively vote in respect of such of earnings per share unless they are subsequently resold or indemnities.
ii To amend the Memorandum of Association to insert a power Following the implementation of the Treasury Shares Regulations, to fund defence costs and to amend the Articles of Association the Companies Act 1985 now allows companies to hold shares to provide that the Company shall fund a directors defence acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, rather than having costs should an action be brought against him or her.
The Company may now therefore consider holding proposed amendment to Article 107.2 is to ensure that the any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the authority Directors can collectively vote in respect of such funding.
conferred by this resolution as treasury shares as an alternative Individual Directors of the Company would still be liable to pay to cancelling them.
This would give the Company the ability to any damages awarded to the Company in an action against them re-issue such treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and by the Company, and to repay their defence costs, to the extent would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the funded by the Company, if their defence is unsuccessful.
management of its capital base.
The Directors believe that it is desirable for the Company to have this flexibility.
The new legislation does not restrict the Company from indemnifying or funding the defence costs of the Company No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and Secretary or other officers of the Company.
The Board believes it is no voting rights will be exercisable in respect of treasury shares.
appropriate that such persons be indemnified in respect of their The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares which liabilities in such positions to the same extent as the Directors.
may be acquired 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital and the maximum and minimum prices at which they may be bought.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Notice of sixth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued Articles of Association Other Amendments Resolution 13 5.
Proxies speaking at general meeting Since April 2002, when the Companys Articles of Association were The Myners Report also recommended that proxies should be last amended, there have been a number of legislative, regulatory permitted to speak at general meetings.
The Articles of Association and best practice developments which the Board believes should currently provide that proxies cannot speak at general meetings of be reflected in the Articles.
A number of further amendments to the Company.
the Articles of Association are therefore being proposed to The proposed amendments delete the prohibition on proxies implement the various changes.
speaking at the Companys general meetings and would therefore Details of the proposed changes are set out below.
A copy of the bring the Articles in line with the Myners Report recommendation.
Companys Articles of Association, as amended to reflect these changes, and the other changes proposed pursuant to Resolution 6.
References to legislation 12 above, will be available for inspection at the Meeting at the The Articles of Association include references to certain acts which International Convention Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA from have now been superseded.
The proposed changes will update the 10.00am until the conclusion of the AGM and at 100 Thames Valley Articles of Association to replace references to out-of-date Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT from the date of this Notice legislation with references to current legislation.
until the conclusion of the Meeting.
Treasury shares Your Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour Treasury shares are shares in a listed company which have been of all the above resolutions as they intend to do so themselves in purchased by that company out of its distributable profits and respect of their own beneficial holdings, with the exception of then held by that company in treasury for re-sale for cash, transfer Resolutions 9 and 12, where they will be abstaining.
in connection with an employee share scheme or cancellation.
Appointing a proxy The Articles of Association already permit the Company to buy A proxy form is enclosed with this Notice and instructions for its back, or agree to buy back in the future, any shares of any class use are shown on the form.
Proxies must be submitted by 11.00am in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and other applicable on Monday 2 May 2005 to Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, laws.
If Resolution 11 is passed, the Company will continue to be Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6BA.
Details of how to submit your authorised to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
proxy electronically are given below.
The amendments will specify that the Company may hold shares as treasury shares, and provide that the Company will not exercise Electronic proxy voting any rights in connection with them whilst held in treasury.
Shareholders may register the appointment of a proxy for the AGM electronically at www.
CREST voting by institutions operated by the Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
The Articles of Association already permit members of CREST Shareholders are advised to read the terms and conditions, to appoint proxies electronically.
Some minor alterations to the shown on the website, relating to the use of this facility before Articles are proposed to clarify the provisions in the light of the appointing a proxy.
Any electronic communication sent by underlying legislation introduced in 2003. a shareholder that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Electronic communication facilities are available 3.
Electronic archiving to all shareholders and those who use them will not be The proposed amendments will allow the Company to keep disadvantaged in any way.
electronic archives of various documents relating to shareholders rather than hard copy archives of such documents.
The Board Electronic proxy appointment through CREST believes that electronic archiving will result in cost savings for CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the Company.
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held on 4 May 2005 and any adjournment s thereof 4.
Voting by poll by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Under the Articles of Association, in the first instance votes at a Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those general meeting are taken by a show of hands.
The Chairman may CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, exercise his discretion to call for a poll in relation to any resolution.
should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, At last years AGM, the Chairman called a poll on every resolution.
who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The Myners Report recommended that a poll should be called In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the on all substantive resolutions at companies general meetings CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST and recommended that listed companies consider including a Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance provision to this effect in their articles of association.
The Board with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information considers that the use of polls for voting on substantive resolutions required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
will usually be appropriate since it produces a more transparent The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the method of voting and an exact and definitive result.
appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given The proposed amendments to the Articles of Association will to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be delete the requirement that resolutions first be put to a show transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by of hands and will provide the flexibility to have all substantive 11.00am on Monday 2 May 2005.
For this purpose, the time of resolutions voted on by way of a poll.
Procedural resolutions may receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the continue to be decided by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Summary of AGM business A summary of the business carried out at the meeting will be published on the Groups website, www.
com 145 BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Cross-reference to Form 20-F Item Page Item Page Item Page Risk Factors 1 Identity of Directors, Senior 6 Directors, Senior Management Management and Advisers and Employees Commodity Prices to Treasury 36-38 Board of Directors 44-45 Not applicable Principal accounting policies Group Executive Committee 2 Offer Statistics and Expected Financial Instruments to and Company Secretary 46-47 Timetable Commodity Instruments 63 Directors Report 49-50 Not applicable Notes to the accounts Remuneration Report 51-60 3 Key Information Note 21 Governance Framework 39-43 Five year financial summary Financial Instruments 89-90 Corporate Responsibility unaudited 126-129 12 Description of Securities Responsible to Our People 31-32 Five year financial summary Other than Equity Securities Notes to the accounts continuing operations only Not applicable Note 5 Directors unaudited 130-131 13 Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Employees 75-76 Risk Factors 35-38 and Delinquencies 7 Major Shareholders and Related 4 Information on the Company None Party Transactions BG Groups global operations 6-7 14 Material Modifications to the Additional shareholder information Rights of Security Holders and Financial Review Major Shareholders 135 Use of Proceeds Exceptional items Financial Review None Profit Loss on disposals 23 Related Party Transactions 29 15 Controls and Procedures Capital Investment 24-25 Notes to the accounts Governance Framework Cash Flow 25 Note 27 Related SEC Statement on Shareholder information Party Transactions 95 Controls and Procedures 39 Headquarters and 8 Financial Information 16A Audit Committee Financial Expert Registered Office Address 132 Governance Framework US Report of Independent Agent for Service of Process Board committees Accountants see item 18 of the in the USA 132 Audit Committee 42 Companys Form 20-F filed with Additional shareholder information the US Securities and Exchange 16B Code of Ethics This Report and Accounts Commission Corporate Responsibility 31 Incorporates the US Form 20-F 133 Financial Review 16C Principal Accountant Fees and Services History and Development Dividend 27 of the Company 133 Additional shareholder information Principal accounting policies 62-63 Accountants Fees and Services Organisational Structure 134 Consolidated profit and to Audit Committee Presentation of non-GAAP loss account 64-65 Pre-Approval Policy and Measures 148 Consolidated statement of total Procedures 139 146 Cautionary Note to Shareholders recognised gains and losses 65 16D Exemptions from the Listing in Relation to Certain ForwardBalance sheets 66 Standards for Audit Committees Looking Statements 149 Movement in BG Group Not applicable Business Overview 8 shareholders funds 67 16E Purchases of Equity Securities by Strategy 9-10 Consolidated cash the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Operating Review 11-19 flow statement 68 See item 16E of the Companys Reconciliation of Form 20-F filed with the US Securities Future Prospects 30 net borrowings 68 and Exchange Commission Corporate Responsibility 17 Financial Statements Analysis of changes in Environmentally Responsible 33-34 financing during the year 69 Not applicable Supplementary information Analysis of cash movement 69 18 Financial Statements gas and oil unaudited 120-124 Notes to the accounts 70-109 US Report of Independent Historical Production Accountants see item 18 of the Five year financial unaudited 125 Company's Form 20-F filed with summary unaudited Notes to the accounts the US Securities and Exchange Annual Dividends 129 Note 2 Segmental Analysis 70-73 Commission Directors Report Tangible Fixed Assets 82 Note 12 Principal accounting policies 62-63 Significant Events Subsequent Consolidated profit and 5 Operating and Financial Review to 31 December 2004 49 loss account 64-65 and Prospects Notes to the accounts Consolidated statement of total Financial Review 20-29 Note 1 Post Balance Sheet recognised gains and losses 65 Risk Factors Events 70 Balance sheets 66 Treasury 37-38 9 The Offer and Listing Movement in BG Group Presentation of non-GAAP Additional shareholder information shareholders funds 67 Measures 148 Listing and Price History 134 Consolidated cash Cautionary Note to Shareholders 10 Additional Information flow statement 68 in Relation to Certain ForwardAdditional shareholder information Reconciliation of net borrowings 68 Looking Statements 149 Memorandum and Articles Analysis of changes in Notes to the accounts of Association 135-137 financing during the year 69 Notes 18 Borrowings to 21 Material Contracts 137 Analysis of cash movement 69 Financial Instruments 86-90 Exchange Controls 137 Notes to the accounts 70-109 Note 26 Commitments Taxation 137-139 19 Exhibits and Contingencies 93-94 Documents on Display139 See item 19 of the Company's Strategy 9-10 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Form 20-F filed with the US Future Prospects 30 Disclosures about Market Risk Securities and Exchange Commission Disclosures relating to finding and development costs F&D costs and proved reserve replacement rates RRR, and specific references to pages 110-119 Results restated under IFRS, have been redacted and excluded from our Form 20-F filing with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
