BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Principal accounting policies The accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 have been Interest charges on borrowings used to finance major capital prepared under UK GAAP.
These policies will be replaced by projects are capitalised up to the point of commissioning.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with effect from 1 January 2005 and BG Group will publish its 2005 Annual DEPRECIATION Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other tangible fixed assets, except Report and Accounts and quarterly interim statements during exploration and production assets, are depreciated on a straight-line 2005 in accordance with IFRS.
The section set out on pages 110 basis at rates sufficient to write off the historical cost of individual to 119 has been prepared in order to provide additional information assets over their estimated useful economic lives.
The depreciation on the impact of IFRS in advance of its adoption.
periods for the principal categories of assets are as follows: BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with generally Mains and services up to 60 years accepted accounting principles requires management to make Plant and machinery 5 to 30 years judgements and assumptions that affect the reported amounts Meters up to 20 years of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingencies at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported revenues during the Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 10 years reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Exploration and production assets are depreciated from the These accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable commencement of production in the fields concerned, using accounting standards using historical cost principles.
The accounting the unit of production method based on the proved developed policies, where applicable, are materially in accordance with reserves of those fields, except that a basis of total proved reserves a Statement of Recommended Practice SORP issued by the Oil is used for acquired interests and for facilities.
BG Group applies Industry Accounting Committee entitled Accounting for Oil and SEC definitions for proved reserves and proved developed reserves.
Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
Activities, other than those areas shown in the sections entitled Asset lives are kept under review and complete asset life reviews Depreciation, Impairment of Fixed Assets and Exploration are conducted periodically.
IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSETS BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Any impairment of fixed assets is calculated as the difference The accounts comprise a consolidation of the accounts of the between the carrying values of income generating units including Company and its subsidiary undertakings and incorporate the associated goodwill and the estimated value in use at the date the results of its share of joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Value in use represents the net present The results of undertakings acquired or disposed of are consolidated value of expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis.
from or to the date when control passes to or from the Company.
62 Most of BG Groups exploration and production activity is conducted Impairments of fixed assets are recognised in the profit and loss through joint arrangements.
BG Group accounts for its own share account within operating costs.
of the assets, liabilities and cash flows associated with these BG Group utilises proved plus probable reserves estimates in joint arrangements.
performing impairment testing on its gas and oil reserves.
GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS STOCKS On the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking, joint venture or Stocks, including stocks of gas and oil, are stated at weighted associated undertaking, fair values are attributed to the net assets average historical cost less provision for deterioration and acquired.
Goodwill, which represents the difference between the obsolescence or, if lower, net realisable value.
purchase consideration and the fair value of the net assets acquired, is capitalised.
REVENUE RECOGNITION Goodwill eliminated against Group reserves prior to the Revenue recognition associated with exploration and production implementation of Financial Reporting Standard FRS 10, Goodwill sales of crude oil, petroleum and chemical products is recorded when title passes to the customer.
Revenue from the production of and Intangible Assets, has not been reinstated, but will be charged natural gas and oil in which the Group has an interest with other to the profit and loss account on any subsequent disposal of the producers is recognised on the basis of the Groups working net assets to which it is related.
When goodwill is denominated interest entitlement method.
Differences between production in a foreign currency, it is translated into Sterling in line with sold and the Groups share of production are not significant.
the Groups accounting policy on foreign currencies see below.
Sales of liquefied natural gas LNG and associated products are AMORTISATION recognised when title passes to the customer as the LNG passes Goodwill which has a limited useful economic life is amortised the delivery point at the loading or discharge port or the tailgate over an appropriate period on a straight-line basis not exceeding of the regasification terminal.
LNG shipping revenue is recognised 20 years.
Intangible assets in respect of contractual rights are over the period of the relevant contract.
amortised over the term of the related contracts.
Revenue from transportation and distribution activities is recognised in the same period in which the related volumes are TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS EXCLUDING DECOMMISSIONING ASSETS delivered to the customer.
All tangible fixed assets are carried at depreciated historical cost.
Additions represent extensions to, or significant increases in, Power generation revenues are recognised based on the availability the capacity of tangible fixed assets.
status of the power station to produce at a given point in time.
Revenue associated with the costs of actual production is Contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets recognised whenever power is generated.
including government grants are included in creditors as deferred income and credited to the profit and loss account over the life All other revenue is recognised when title passes to the customer.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating The SORP see basis of preparation and accounting principles, above leases are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
requires depreciation of licence acquisition costs on a straight-line basis.
It also permits capitalisation of all costs incurred as intangible fixed FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group are interest assets.
BG Group accounts for exploration expenditure under the rate swaps, currency swaps, forward rate agreements, and forward successful efforts method which differs from the SORP as described below.
Exploration expenditure, including licence acquisition costs, is A derivative financial instrument is considered to be used for capitalised as an intangible fixed asset when incurred and certain hedging purposes when it alters the risk profile of an existing expenditure, such as geological and geophysical exploration costs, underlying exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk is expensed.
A review of each licence or field is carried out, at least management policies.
Derivatives used for hedging are accounted annually, to ascertain whether proved reserves have been discovered.
During the year there were no interest When proved reserves are determined, the relevant expenditure, rate or exchange rate derivatives used for trading purposes.
including licence acquisition costs, is transferred to tangible fixed assets and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
Expenditure Termination payments made or received in respect of derivatives are deemed to be unsuccessful is written off to the profit and loss account.
spread over the shorter of the life of the original instrument or the life of the underlying exposure in cases where the underlying exposure BG Group considers this application of the successful efforts continues to exist.
Where the underlying exposure ceases to exist, method to be appropriate as it provides comparability with the any termination payments are taken to the profit and loss account.
Groups peer group and because it treats licence acquisition costs Interest differentials on derivative instruments are recognised in a manner which is consistent with the treatment of other by adjusting the net interest charge.
Premiums or discounts on exploration assets within intangible fixed assets.
derivative instruments are amortised over the shorter of the life of the instrument or the underlying exposure.
DECOMMISSIONING COSTS Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost Currency swap agreements and forward exchange contracts are of decommissioning at the end of the producing lives of fields.
retranslated at the rates ruling in the agreements and contracts.
When this provision gives access to future economic benefits, an Resulting gains or losses are offset against foreign exchange gains or losses on the related borrowings or, where the instrument is asset is recognised and then subsequently depreciated in line with used to hedge a committed future transaction, are deferred until the life of the underlying producing field, otherwise the costs are the transaction occurs.
charged to the profit and loss account.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in the profit and loss account COMMODITY INSTRUMENTS as a financial item and is included within the net interest charge.
The Group uses various commodity based derivative instruments 63 to manage some of the risks arising from fluctuations in FOREIGN CURRENCIES commodity prices.
Such contracts include physicaland cashAssets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated settled forwards, futures, swaps and options.
into Sterling at closing rates of exchange.
Trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associated undertakings Under specified conditions, certain gains and losses attributable to are translated into Sterling at average rates of exchange or, where cash-settled derivative contracts designated as hedging particular hedged, at the contract rate of exchange.
Differences resulting from gas price exposures are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account when the underlying hedged transaction crystallises.
the retranslation of the opening net assets and the results for the All other gains and losses relating to cash-settled commodity year are taken to reserves.
derivatives are taken to the profit and loss account on the maturity Exchange differences on monetary assets and liabilities are taken or termination of the instrument.
to the profit and loss account, except that exchange differences on Upstream gas trading contracts and related derivative instruments foreign currency net borrowings used to finance foreign currency that are settled by the physical purchase and re-sale of third-party net investments are taken to reserves.
All other exchange gas are presented on a net basis within E&Ps costs.
As these movements are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
activities are incidental and different in nature to E&Ps ordinary activities, this treatment is in conformity with the Companies Act 1985.
DEFERRED TAX Provision is made in full, on an undiscounted basis, for the deferred PENSIONS tax arising on the difference between the accounting treatment and The cost of providing retirement pensions and related benefits is tax treatment for depreciation in respect of accelerated capital charged to the profit and loss account over the periods benefiting allowances and other timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are from the employees services.
The regular pension cost, variations recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
from the regular pension cost and interest are all charged within Provision for deferred petroleum revenue tax is shown net of employee costs.
The difference between the charge or credit to the allowable corporation tax relief reflected in the deferred corporation profit and loss account and the contributions paid to the pension tax balance and is made in respect of applicable fields based on schemes in which the Group participates is shown as an increase current forecasts.
or decrease in the provision.
Deferred tax on this provision has been accounted for in full.
The transitional disclosure requirements LEASES of FRS 17, Retirement benefits, are included within the pensions Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included note note 28, page 95. in tangible fixed assets at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The obligations relating to finance leases, net of RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE finance charges in respect of future periods, are included within All research and development and advertising expenditure is written off as incurred.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the
