BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Presentation of non-GAAP measures and glossary Term used in US equivalent or Annual Report brief description PRESENTATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES BG Group gives certain additional information in a nonAccounts Financial statements statutory format in order to provide readers with an Acquisition accounting Purchase accounting increased insight into the underlying performance of the Advance corporation tax No direct US equivalent business, in line with managements own view.
Where such tax paid on company non-GAAP information is given, this is clearly indicated and distribution recoverable from the comparable statutory figure is also provided.
UK taxes due on income The measures BG Group uses comprise: Allotted Issued Associated undertaking 20-50% owned investee presentation of results excluding exceptional items Business Performance : Called-up share capital Common stock, issued and fully paid results at constant US$ UK exchange rates and upstream commodity prices: and Capital allowances Tax term equivalent to US tax results normalised to reference conditions.
depreciation allowances Class of business Industry segment An explanation of each of these presentations is given below.
Closing rate method Current rate method Results excluding exceptional items Business Consolidated accounts Consolidated financial Performance are presented because management believes statements that exclusion of these items facilitates understanding of Creditors Accounts payable payables the underlying performance of the business and improves the comparability of results for the periods concerned.
For Creditors: amounts falling due Long-term accounts these reasons, BG Group uses Business Performance after more than one year payable payables measures to manage the Group.
The items excluded from Creditors: amounts falling due Current accounts Business Performance are exceptional items as defined by within one year payable payables Financial Reporting Standard 3 i. e. items which derive Debtors Accounts receivable receivables from events or transactions that fall within the ordinary Finance lease Capital lease activities of BG Group but which require separate Financial year Fiscal year disclosure in order to present a true and fair view of the performance during a period.
All profits and losses on the Freehold Ownership with absolute rights disposal of fixed assets and investments are reported as in perpetuity exceptional items.
For a reconciliation between the results Freehold land Land owned 148 including and excluding exceptional items, see the Gearing Leverage consolidated profit and loss account, pages 64 and 65, and Interest receivable Interest income for details of exceptional items, see note 6, page 78.
Interest payable Interest expense Results at constant US$ UK exchange rates and upstream Loan capital Debt i. e. E&P commodity prices are intended to provide Net asset value Book value additional information to explain further the underlying trends in the business.
The disclosure recalculates the Nominal value Par value current year profit on the basis that the US$ UK exchange Pension scheme Pension plan rate and the upstream commodity prices were the same as Profit Income or earnings in the previous year so providing a comparable base in Profit and loss account reserve Retained earnings respect of these two factors.
Profit and loss account Income statement Return on average capital employed ROACE represents Profit attributable to Net income profit before tax excluding exceptional items plus net ordinary shareholders interest payable on net borrowings, as a percentage of Reconciliation of movements Statement of changes in average capital employed.
in shareholders funds stockholders equity Reserves Stockholders equity other than capital stock Share capital Capital stock or common stock Share premium account Additional paid-in capital Share scheme Share plan Shares in issue Shares outstanding Shareholders funds Stockholders equity Stocks Inventories Tangible fixed assets Property, plant and equipment Turnover Revenues or sales
