BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Our vision Definitions For the purpose of this document the following definitions apply: km Kilometres Euros Lattice or Lattice Group plc or any of its subsidiary Natural gas is our business.
Lattice Group undertakings, joint ventures or $ US dollars associated undertakings UK pounds Sterling Lattice Group plc Lattice Group plc, the ultimate parent company We are a rapidly growing company, bcf Billion cubic feet of Lattice bcm Billion cubic metres m Million bcma Billion cubic metres per annum mcmd Thousand cubic metres per day with expertise across the gas chain.
BG or BG Group The Company or the Group or any of its mmbbl Million barrels subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures or mmboe Million barrels of oil equivalent associated undertakings mmbtu Million British thermal units Our vision is to be the leading natural gas BG Energy Holdings BG Energy Holdings Limited, Limited or BGEH a subsidiary of the Company mmcm Million cubic metres BG Energy Holdings BG Energy Holdings Limited and its mmcmd Million cubic metres per day subsidiary undertakings consolidated with its company in the global energy market mmscf Million standard cubic feet share of joint ventures and associated mmscfd Million standard cubic feet per day undertakings mmscm Million standard cubic metres BG Transco Holdings Transco Holdings plc formerly named BG operating responsibly and delivering mmscmd Million standard cubic metres per day Transco Holdings plc and its subsidiary undertakings consolidated with its mtpa Million tonnes per annum share of joint ventures and associated MW Megawatt undertakings outstanding value to our shareholders.
Normalising Adjust to a comparable basis billion or bn One thousand million OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation boe Barrels of oil equivalent and Development boed Barrels of oil equivalent per day PSA Production Sharing Agreement bopd Barrels of oil per day Contents PSC Production Sharing Contract CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate Qbtu Quadrillion British thermal units 2 Chairmans statement 49 Directors report CPC Caspian Pipeline Consortium 3 Chief Executives statement 51 Remuneration report ROACE Return on Average Capital Employed CCGT Combined Cycle Gas Turbine 6 Operating and financial review 61 Auditors report tcf Trillion cubic feet Combined Code The 2003 Combined Code on Corporate 6 BG Groups global operations 62 Principal accounting policies three year proved The three year average proved reserves Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the 8 Business overview 64 Accounts reserves replacement replacement rate is the total net proved reserves UK Listing Authority rate RRR changes over the three year period including 9 Strategy 120 Supplementary information Company BG Group plc purchases and sales excluding production 11 Operating review 126 Five year financial summary 149 demerger The demerger of certain businesses principally divided by the total net production for that period 20 Financial review 132 Shareholder information Transco by BG to Lattice Group plc, which SEC The United States Securities and Exchange 30 Future prospects 140 Notice of Annual General Meeting became effective on 23 October 2000 Commission 31 Corporate Responsibility 146 Cross reference to Form 20-F DTI Department of Trade and Industry SPE The Society of Petroleum Engineers 35 Risk factors 147 Index EPC Engineer Procure Construct Transco The gas transportation business carried out by 39 Corporate governance 148 Presentation of non-GAAP Transco plc EPIC Engineer Procure Install Construct 39 Governance framework measures and glossary Transco Holdings plc Transco Holdings plc formerly known as BG Finding and Development The three year average unit finding and 44 Board of Directors 149 Definitions Transco Holdings plc, which became part of Costs F&D development cost is calculated by dividing the 46 Executive Committee Lattice on demerger total exploration, development and unproved acquisition costs incurred over the period by the Transco plc Transco plc formerly known as BG Transco plc total changes in net proved reserves excluding and before that as BG plc, a subsidiary of purchases, sales and production for that period Transco Holdings plc and which became part Group The Company and its subsidiary of Lattice on demerger Front cover Financial calendar undertakings UKCS United Kingdom Continental Shelf GW Gigawatt Ex-dividend date for 2004 final dividend 30 March 2005 Record date for 2004 final dividend 1 April 2005 150 Annual General Meeting 4 May 2005 Payment of final dividend 125 CAUTIONARY NOTE TO SHAREHOLDERS IN RELATION TO CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Shareholders 13 May 2005 This Annual Report and Accounts includes forward-looking information within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, 100 ADR holders 20 May 2005 as amended, and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Certain statements included in this Annual Report and Accounts, including without limitation, those concerning a strategies, outlook and growth opportunities, b positioning to deliver future plans Financial year end 31 December 2005 and to realise potential for growth, c delivery of the performance required to meet the 2006 targets, d expectations regarding gas and oil 75 prices, e development of new markets, f the development and commencement of commercial operations of new projects, g liquidity and capital resources, h gas demand growth, i plans for capital and investment expenditure, j the economic outlook for the gas and oil 50 industries, k regulation, l qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk and m statements preceded by expected, scheduled, 99 00 01 02 03 04 targeted, planned, proposed, intended or similar statements, contain certain forward-looking statements concerning the Groups operations, economic performance and financial condition.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking BG Group statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
Accordingly, results could differ Sector comparator group materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, a changes in economic, market and FTSE 100 competitive conditions, including gas and oil prices, b success in implementing business and operating initiatives, c changes in the regulatory environment and other government actions, including UK and international corporation tax rates, d a major recession or significant upheaval in The graph on the front cover shows BG Groups the major markets in which the Group operates, e the failure to ensure the safe operation of the Groups assets worldwide, f implementation total shareholder return compared to the risk, being the challenges associated with delivering capital intensive projects on time and on budget, including the need to retain and motivate equivalent return for an oil and gas sector staff, g commodity risk, being the risk of a significant fluctuation in gas and or oil prices from those assumed, h fluctuations in exchange comparator group and the FTSE 100 since listing rates, in particular the US$ UK exchange rate being significantly different from that assumed, i risks encountered in the gas and oil of BG Group plc shares on 13 December 1999.
More exploration and production sector in general and j business risk management.
information is available on page 56 of this report.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004 A strategy that delivers BG Group plc 100 Thames Valley Park Drive BG Group Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT www.
com Annual Report and Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 Accounts 2004 Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
Printed by Butler and Tanner.
Group Overview BG Group is a leader in the exploration, production, transmission, distribution and supply of natural gas to industrialised and developing markets around the world.
Our core activity is connecting high value markets to competitively priced gas.
NORTH AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN NORTH WEST EUROPE Our activities in this region consist of LNG import We have a significant offshore E&P business in the and gas marketing in the USA and LNG export UK.
In 2004, this region accounted for around 40% from Trinidad and Tobago.
We also have E&P of total Group production.
Other activities include businesses in Canada and Trinidad.
the development of a LNG import facility, power generation, gas marketing and gas transmission.
SOUTH AMERICA MEDITERRANEAN BASIN AND AFRICA ASIA AND MIDDLE EAST We have controlling stakes in the largest natural Production in this region is principally from The region includes the giant Karachaganak gas distribution companies in Brazil and Argentina.
Egypt and Tunisia with exploration acreage in gas condensate field in Kazakhstan.
The Group We supply gas markets in Brazil and Bolivia, as well as Mauritania, Italy and Spain.
LNG exports from is also a partner in the North Caspian PSA domestic liquid markets in Bolivia from significant Egyptian LNG are scheduled to commence in the including the Kashagan field.
In the expanding reserves in Bolivia.
We also hold interests in four second quarter of 2005 and we also have contracts Indian gas market, we have a growing E&P exploration blocks offshore Brazil and have interests to buy LNG from Egypt, Equatorial Guinea and business and interests in two gas distribution in transmission pipelines.
Nigeria to supply the US and European markets.
We also have power generation BG Group is a partner in the Brindisi LNG terminal businesses in Malaysia and the Philippines and www.
com international and has interests in power plants in Italy.
have gas and condensate production in Thailand.
B BG G G GR RO OU UP P A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EV VI IE EW W 2 20 00 04 4 BG Group Highlights 2004 Dividend Delivering value across the gas chain pence Exploration and Production E&P 1 204m Our E&P activities include the exploration, total operating profit development, production and marketing of gas and oil.
We use our technical, 7% commercial and gas chain skills to deliver increase in volume projects at low cost, whilst maximising the sales value of our hydrocarbons.
Liquefied Natural Gas LNG 94m BG Groups LNG activities combine the total operating profit 04 02 03 development of LNG liquefaction and regasification facilities with the purchasing, 22% shipping and sale of LNG.
We use our expertise increase in total operating profit in LNG to deliver our own and connect other Turnover producers gas reserves to markets.
m Transmission and Distribution T&D 134m Our T&D expertise and activities develop 1 1 total operating profit markets for natural gas and provide them with supply through transmission and 16% distribution networks.
increase in total operating profit Power Generation Power 121m BG Groups Power business segment total operating profit includes the development, ownership and operation of gas-fired power 2.8 GW 04 generation plants.
02 03 power capacity Contents Total operating profit Front Cover 2 Chairman and Chief Executives statement The graph on the front cover shows BG Groups total m 4 Strategy and Performance shareholder return compared to the equivalent return for an oil and gas sector comparator group and the FTSE 100 8 Corporate Responsibility since listing of BG Group plc shares on 13 December 1999.
10 Governance and risk More information is available on page 18 of this report.
12 Board of Directors 150 14 Summary Directors report 15 Summary Remuneration report 125 19 Summary Financial Statements BG Group 23 Notice of Annual General Meeting Sector comparator 100 group FTSE 100 75 50 04 See page 21 for segmental analysis.
02 03 99 00 01 02 03 04 2 610 3.10 888 3.46 1 251 3 587 3.81 1 522 4 082 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Chairman and Chief Executives statement We are pleased to be able to report that for BG Group 2004 was another year of strong earnings progression underpinned by continuing underlying growth.
We have raised some of our key 2006 targets and made excellent progress in accelerating some of our most important projects.
We remain confident of the Groups outstanding longterm growth prospects.
We achieved an increase in operating profit of 22%, bringing our total operating profit to 1 522 million.
At constant US$ UK exchange rates and upstream prices, total operating profit increased by 8%.
Our earnings, excluding exceptional items, were up by 23% to 842 million and we have raised the dividend by 10% to 3.81 pence per share which is consistent with our aim of long-term dividend growth.
In our fourth full year of operation as BG Group, we THE GLOBAL ENERGY MARKET 2 are pleased to report that we are continuing to perform Global demand for energy was strong in 2004 and we saw exceptionally high oil strongly, delivering on our targets and providing value prices.
Against this background, natural gas to our shareholders.
is expected to increase its share of the energy market, reflecting its growing status as the Sir Robert Wilson Frank Chapman fuel of choice.
Chairman Chief Executive At a global level, the supply of gas is plentiful, although often not in the same geographic location as demand.
This, of course, is how our opportunities arise.
BG Group has knowledge Market overview the rise of gas and experience of all parts of the gas chain which enables us to create value both for our The oil and gas industry benefited Underpinning these advantages are shareholders and for our host countries.
from higher oil and gas prices during the improvements in the cost structure OUR STRATEGY 2004.
We believe that there are a of gas supply that continue to ensure number of important factors specific the price competitiveness of gas in The central theme of our strategy is to the natural gas business that the marketplace.
straightforward we connect high value will sustain the positive business markets to competitively priced gas, quickly In 2004, the US-based Energy environment for gas.
and efficiently, thereby creating value.
Key to Information Administration predicted success is a deep understanding of markets Gas is more abundant than oil and that the compound annual growth together with the ability to achieve value in it also has the lowest carbon dioxide rate for global gas consumption will all parts of the gas chain.
emissions for given energy output substantially exceed those of other of all fossil fuels.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Energy resources are very often in parts of the world which have a more challenging BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 political or business environment.
These Our exploration and appraisal success continued During 2004 we made two appointments environments reinforce the need for our to our Executive team: Jrn Berget was in 2004.
During the year, we drilled and strong corporate governance and risk evaluated 28 wells, with a success rate of 64%, appointed Executive Vice President, BG management procedures.
Advance, where he will be responsible for bringing our five year average to around 73%.
the continuing development of our strategic We aim to run our business in accordance In LNG our position as a sector leader technical and commercial capabilities: and with our Statement of Business Principles.
Our LNG business Peter Hughes was appointed Executive Vice It is essential to our long-term success that continued to grow during 2004 and we President, Group Strategy.
we create value not only for shareholders expect LNG to be a strong growth engine but also for our host governments and OUR FUTURE for our business.
In 2004, BG Group communities, and that we conduct our Alongside our distinctive strategy delivered more than 40% of LNG imported business in accordance with the highest BG Group has an explicit set of competitive into the US market, making us the largest ethical standards.
Unique to the sector is our importer of LNG into the USA for the second focus on gas combined with our market-led year running.
Corporate responsibility remains core to approach.
We have an organisational all our business decisions.
To put it simply, T&D has continued to return good results structure which is strongly aligned with our we believe that it is good business to and performed well with total operating strategy.
We have a portfolio of high quality operate responsibly.
Growth was assets working ever more closely together most notable at Comgas in Brazil.
Our T&D BUSINESS PERFORMANCE and we have a heritage of skills right across operations are located in countries with huge BG Group delivered all the projects due the gas chain.
These skills have enabled us potential for growth in gas demand, such for completion during 2004, including first to establish a successful track record of liquids from the giant Karachaganak gas as Brazil and India.
exploration and project delivery as well as 3 condensate field in Kazakhstan being exported giving us the ability to handle the immense Power generation continues to be a via the CPC pipeline to western markets.
technical and commercial complexities significant driver in long-term gas demand Another significant achievement in 2004 has characterising todays gas chains.
And pulling and BG Group will remain focused on been the acceleration of a number of key together all of these tangible assets are the identifying growth opportunities in this projects.
Both Egyptian LNG Trains 1 and 2 are intrinsic qualities of who we are and how we segment.
The contribution of Power to due to begin ahead of schedule in 2005.
The go about our business.
Herein lies the the Groups operating profits was slightly acceleration of Egyptian LNG, already the principal sustainable source of our below the 2003 figure due to the impact fastest LNG project ever delivered, has enabled competitive advantage.
As we look forward of the weaker US dollar.
us along with an improved performance into 2005 and beyond, we are confident that from our Atlantic LNG facility in Trinidad and this combination of strategy, organisation, BOARD AND EXECUTIVE Tobago to increase our LNG volume target skills and portfolio, together with our Three long-serving directors are standing for 2006, and says much about our project fundamental approach to this business, will down from the Board at the AGM Keith delivery capability.
continue to create and deliver exceptional Mackrell, Elwyn Eilledge and Dame Stella value for our shareholders.
Keith Mackrell joined the Our Exploration and Production E&P Board of British Gas in 1994 and was business remains our centre of gravity.
Our appointed Deputy Chairman in 2000. downstream businesses, Liquefied Natural Elwyn Eilledge and Dame Stella Rimington Gas LNG, Transmission and Distribution Sir Robert Wilson, joined the Board of BG plc upon demerger T&D and Power Generation Power, are Chairman in February 1997.
They have been part also important contributors to growth of the major transition and great success and profits.
We shall miss their wisdom E&P continued to perform strongly with and advice.
We have increased our 2006 production target by 9.4% We welcome Baroness Hogg, who joined Frank Chapman, to 580 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Chief Executive BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Strategy and Performance Our strategy As an integrated gas company, we aim a balance between major Strategy by business segment to deliver continued and sustainable OECD markets and selected E&P is and will remain for the growth in shareholder value through developing markets.
foreseeable future our principal value a strategy which capitalises on the creator based on its long life assets and Integration: we continue to build Groups skills and experience.
We believe growing exploration prospect inventory.
a portfolio of assets which are that successful partnerships with host becoming increasingly connected In LNG, we have strengthened our countries and communities are an and complementary to each other.
position in the Atlantic Basin, moving to essential part of creating good and Our skills across the gas chain help develop multiple regasification positions sustainable returns for shareholders.
develop and take advantage of and building competitively priced and We combine a deep understanding of new opportunities.
Strong future growth gas markets with industry leading skills prospects mean that LNG is expected Competitive gas supplies: securing in finding and commercialising gas and in to make an increasing contribution to competitively priced supply is an project delivery.
This enables us to access Group earnings year on year.
essential part of our strategy for competitively priced resources and bring success, since cost leadership is In T&D, through our Brazilian and them to market quickly and cost effectively a pre-requisite for long-term success Indian businesses, we are focused and to create value across the gas chain.
on markets with significant potential Our strategy consists of the following growth in gas usage.
Future growth: four key drivers will 4 key elements: underpin future long-term growth: a A large proportion of incremental Market focus: we seek to maintain strong asset base with in-built growth: worldwide demand is attributable to a deep understanding of current gas incremental investments around the power stations and we will continue to demand and future market trends asset base: connecting assets to seek selective additions to our portfolio and of how to connect reserves to enhance value: and identifying new of high return power assets.
We aim to have opportunities to add value.
A LOOK AT OUR BUSINESS on five continents.
Our business is Earnings have continued to grow strongly: At BG Group, we have four main business managed regionally.
reaching 842 million, excluding exceptional segments.
Our high performing E&P or items, an increase of 23% over 2003.
A map showing the regions and the upstream business remains our centre business segments we operate in each region Exploration and Production of gravity.
Our focus remains firmly on gas is on the inside front cover of this report.
Our E&P business had another strong year in with around 72% of production being made 2004 and contributed 79% of total operating HOW OUR BUSINESSES PERFORMED up of gas.
Production increased by 7% to 166.8 2004 was another year of strong growth Our LNG business continues to grow million barrels of oil equivalent mmboe.
and achievement for BG Group.
All our and we expect LNG to make an increasing main business segments provided operating E&P turnover increased by 20% to contribution to Group earnings year on year.
profits, with the total Group operating profit, 2 153 million in 2004.
E&P operating T&D and Power combined with LNG form the excluding exceptional items, at 1 522 profit increased by 26% to 1 204 million, remainder of our downstream activities and million, up 22% compared with 2003. reflecting production growth from the complete our skill set in all aspects of the Our turnover in 2004 was 4 082 million Karachaganak field in Kazakhstan, production natural gas business.
as compared to 3 857 million in 2003 from the Scarab Saffron fields in Egypt We have businesses in over 20 countries an increase of 14%.
and the newly acquired assets and Continuing operations only.
See the Summary Directors Report on page 14 for a description of exceptional items in 2004 and 2003.
Countries are listed in order of production volume.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 in Canada and Trinidad and Tobago and including the Kashagan field, and is currently overall higher oil and gas prices, offset by a progressing the disposal of its interest.
weaker US dollar exchange rate.
At constant Exploration and appraisal wells Egypt prices and US$ UK exchange rates, E&Ps BG Groups success rate has 2004 was a year of considerable progress averaged 69% over the last 3 years operating profit would have increased for our Egyptian activities.
We continue to be by approximately 6%.
a key supplier to the domestic market through During 2004, we completed 28 exploration our fields offshore the Nile Delta and expect to and appraisal wells, of which 18 were supply the Egyptian LNG export project from successful resulting in a 64% success rate.
In 2004, we also acquired an additional 40% in the Rosetta The Group replaced 126% of proved reserves, concession and reached agreement to increase giving a three year reserves replacement rate the contracted quantity to 345 million of 248%.
standard cubic feet per day mmscfd from UK and Norway 275 mmscfd, from the second quarter of 2005.
02 03 04 The UK accounted for around 40% of our Trinidad and Tobago production in 2004.
The principal operating We produced 19 mmboe of gas in Trinidad Total number of wells assets include the Armada and Seymour fields, completed and Tobago in 2004 with the gas being the Blake Area, the Easington Catchment Number of successful wells supplied to both the domestic market and Area, the Everest and Lomond fields, the into Atlantic LNG for export to North America.
J-Block and Jade fields and the Central Area In May 2004, we acquired operatorship and 5 Transmission System.
In 2004, further 65% of the onshore Central Block development Production 000 boed progress was made on the Atlantic Cromarty in Trinidad, which includes the Carapal Ridge Production volumes have grown and Buzzard fields which are expected to discovery, the largest made onshore in at a compound average growth begin production towards the end of 2005 Trinidad in 40 years.
rate of 11% between 2002 and 2004 and 2006 respectively.
Successful appraisal 580 was also completed on the Maria and Maria Tunisia Horst fields and a discovery was made on the We produced 12.3 mmboe of gas and 457 428 NW Seymour field.
condensate in Tunisia during 2004 from 373 our Miskar field and supplied around 50% Since entry in early 2004, we now hold nine of Tunisian gas demand.
We are in the process of acquiring seismic data on India these areas, with the potential for exploration In 2004, gross production from our drilling in 2005 or 2006. expanded Panna Mukta and Tapti PMT 02 03 04 06 fields constituted approximately 10% of Kazakhstan Indias total oil and gas production.
The PMT Actual gas We are the joint operator of the Karachaganak fields have substantial expansion potential Actual oil and liquids field, one of the largest oil and gas condensate and we are working with our partners and Target fields in the world.
In May 2004, the new the Indian Government to progress Phase 2 facilities came fully on-stream.
As a expansion projects that plan to double the consequence, approximately 60% of liquids fields production rates in the next four years.
produced are now sold at Novorossiysk at international prices.
The remaining untreated Bolivia production continues to be sold to Russian We hold a number of E&P interests in Bolivia.
The Group is also a partner in the In the fourth quarter of 2004, first production North Caspian Sea PSA BG Group 16.67% from the Margarita Early Production Facilities 25 18 17 12 28 18 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Strategy and Performance continued Liquefied Natural Gas Our LNG business segment continued to Key events grow strongly in 2004 and remains a key area Acquired further 40% interest Successful appraisal of Maria and of investment for the Group.
Operating in Rosetta gas field in Egypt discovery at NW Seymour in the income increased by 22% during the year and central North Sea overall LNG production was up by 14%.
This First Karachaganak liquids lifted was driven by the good performance of our and exported via CPC pipeline for Start-up accelerated at Egyptian LNG Atlantic LNG business and our LNG shipping sale at international prices Awarded EPC contracts for Milford and marketing divisions.
Successful drilling on Exploration Haven LNG in Wales and Brindisi Turnover increased to 1 098 million in 2004, and Production acquisitions in LNG in Italy up from 945 million in 2003, reflecting Canada and offshore Mauritania Signed final agreements to purchase increased activity in the US LNG market.
LNGs Awarded or acquired licences LNG from Equatorial Guinea total operating profit increased to 94 million in Norway, UK and Brazil in 2004 from 77 million in 2003.
This increase Positive regulatory review reflected increasing prices and the good of Comgas, Brazil performance at Atlantic LNG in Trinidad and Tobago, but was offset by a weaker US dollar.
Liquefaction Egyptian LNG moved ahead of schedule, with commenced, with the gas being delivered the first cargo from Train 1 now expected in 6 into the Brazilian market.
Train 2 follows LNG Production mtpa closely with start-up ahead of plan and now Canada LNG production has grown 71% expected in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Following the acquisition of exploration and per annum on a compound basis producing assets in March 2004, we now since 2002 In Trinidad, Atlantic LNG Train 4 construction hold significant oil and gas acreage in is expected to be completed by the end Canada.
A large proportion of the acreage of 2005.
Existing trains performed well with is undeveloped and offers considerable Train 3 now in its first full year of production exploration potential close to existing and Train 1 benefiting from the higher US gas infrastructure.
Our first drilling programme price environment.
commenced in May 2004 with success Regasification achieved in four of the seven wells drilled In the USA, we were responsible for by the end of the year.
delivering around 41% of LNG imported Mauritania in 2004 which accounted for just over 1% 02 03 04 06 In March 2004, the Group acquired interests of US daily gas demand.
The Phase 1 in the PSC A and PSC B licence areas offshore expansion of the Lake Charles facility in Mauritania for $137 million which includes Actual Louisiana is on track and scheduled for Target $5.1 million of conditional payments.
Three completion in the fourth quarter of 2005.
The oil discoveries have been made in the PSC B Phase 2 expansion received US regulatory area and a gas discovery in PSC A. approval in September 2004 and is expected Brazil to be completed in mid-2006.
The expansions In December 2004, drilling activities will take the Groups total capacity rights commenced on the BM-S-10 block.
This is from the current 0.63 billion cubic feet per expected to be followed by drilling on three day bcfd to 1.2 bcfd after Phase 1 and to other blocks in 2005.
1.1 2.8 3.2 6.6 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Gujarat Gas Company Limited GGCL BG Group 65.1% is Indias largest private In Italy, the planned Brindisi LNG import gas distribution and transmission company.
T&D throughput bcma terminal made progress during 2004.
The Due to a general shortage of gas availability Volume throughput has increased EPC contract was awarded and the first LNG in 2004, gas sales volume decreased by 12%.
10% per annum on a compound imports are targeted for 2008. basis since 2002 However, a better sales mix, including more In the UK, BG Group and partners signed industrial customers, and cost savings improved shareholder and other related agreements to margins to achieve a 7% increase in net profit.
develop the LNG terminal at Milford Haven, in Mahanagar Gas Limited MGL BG Group Wales Dragon LNG terminal.
This triggered 49.75% owns a gas distribution system in the award of the EPC contract and work Mumbai.
Some started at the end of 2004 with a target of the rise was stimulated by the growth of completion date of the fourth quarter of 2007. compressed natural gas through two new Shipping refuelling stations installed this year, taking Access to shipping is an important part of the total number of stations at the end of the LNG business as it ensures delivery under February 2005 to 100.
02 03 04 06 long-term contracts, and flexibility to take Power Generation advantage of short-term cargoes and Actual A large proportion of incremental worldwide Target arbitrage opportunities.
We took delivery of gas demand is attributable to power stations.
two new-build ships during the year, ordered three new-build ships for delivery in 2006 and BG Group has a profitable portfolio of 7 modern, efficient, combined cycle gas turbine have firm orders and options for further ships Power capacity GW beyond 2006. power stations with committed off-take agreements which are essentially based Transmission and Distribution on availability rather than utilisation this 2004 was another positive year for our T&D provides BG Group with protection from business.
Volumes continued to grow at our market price and volume risk.
Our power two South American distribution businesses, stations are located in the UK, Italy, Malaysia Comgas in Brazil and MetroGAS in Argentina.
The total operating profit from T&D in 2004, In 2004, Power contributed 121 million including BG Groups share of profit in joint to operating profit, a decrease of 8 million ventures and associated undertakings, was from 2003.
The decrease in operating profit 134 million, up from 116 million in 2003. reflected weaker US dollar exchange rates.
Brazil The Philippines Comgas BG Group 60.1% is Brazils largest 02 03 04 06 In its first major overhaul in May 2004, the gas distribution company.
During 2004, Santa Rita power station in the Philippines Comgas increased its customers by 34 000 Actual set a record for the shortest overhaul time.
Target The San Lorenzo station also in the Philippines Under the Comgas concession, a tariff review completed its overhaul in November 2004 is required every five years.
The first review, and matched the Santa Rita performance.
completed in April 2004, defined the overall level and structure of tariffs to May 2009.
Both Santa Rita and San Lorenzo sell electricity to Meralco, the largest power distribution Comgas and the Group believe the outcome to be positive.
company in the Philippines, under 25 year power purchase agreements PPAs.
In India January 2004, both PPAs were amended, 2.5 11.0 2.8 12.5 13.4 2.8 2.8 14.0 BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility summary 2004 in review Improved safety performance with a reduced lost time injury frequency per million man hours worked of 0.6 the lowest ever result for BG Group Signed up to the UN Global Compact Held ethics workshops for employees Ensured the lessons learned from the contractor fatality in India were disseminated across the Group Increased voluntary contributions to social and educational projects to 3.5 million Achieved 100% certification of the 8 environmental management systems of major operations Greenhouse gas emissions per unit of throughput from operations under BG Groups control fell by 1% It matters how we do business.
Corporate These Principles provide all employees with Environment and Social Index we ranked eighth out of 23 oil and gas companies.
Responsibility is core to our business and a code of ethics and principles that we share.
is part of our business decision making.
Our Business Principles and the Group RESPONSIBLE TO OUR PEOPLE Policies that underpin them are available We are an international business with To put it simply, we believe that it is good on our website.
employees in over 20 countries and we strive business to operate responsibly.
We also to keep our people healthy, safe and secure.
recognise that activities surrounding the We support the Extractive Industries At the heart of our success are the skills, Transparency Initiative, a UK Government extraction and supply of fossil fuels can have capability and creativity of our people.
We sponsored initiative to promote transparent economic, environmental and social impacts continue to be committed to nurturing our reporting by governments of aggregate on host countries and communities.
BG Society, a culture where collaborative revenues derived from mineral resources The location of natural gas resources means working, individual discipline and creativity extraction.
that we can find ourselves living and working are key behaviours.
We respond to selected ethical surveys in countries at differing stages of development.
We achieved our best ever safety from the socially responsible investment RESPONSIBLE CONDUCT performance in 2004, with the rate of lost community and are a member of the We aim to run our business in accordance FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability time injuries falling to 0.6 injuries per million with our Statement of Business Principles.
In the 2004 Goldman Sachs Energy, man hours worked.
This improved BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 performance is the result of the demand.
Gas is a relatively clean fuel and can implementation of new tools and processes have a beneficial impact on the environment targeting specific risks and behaviours.
where it is used to replace other fossil fuels.
The location of natural gas resources However, we recognise that our combined with the continuing threats of business activities also have the capacity terrorism and organised crime can pose to produce negative environmental impacts.
BG Group BG Group operates a company-wide identifies and mitigates security risks and environmental management system provides employee training to ensure our to minimise negative effects.
employees are up to date with the latest Climate change and biodiversity loss guidance and aware of how to avoid are major environmental issues.
environmental reporting on greenhouse RESPONSIBLE TO SOCIETY gas GHG emissions is consistent with Our exploration and development activities international good practice.
In 2004, have social and economic impacts on host operations under BG Group control emitted countries and communities.
We manage these 5.6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide impacts by building positive relationships with equivalent comprising carbon dioxide and the communities where we do business, methane.
This represents a rise of 12% in protecting the human rights of our employees absolute emissions compared to 2003 and and making targeted social investments.
is associated with increased production 9 volumes and drilling activity.
Despite the We conduct ongoing dialogue with increase in absolute emissions, total operated individuals and communities near our emissions per unit of throughput of oil and operations.
Social Impact Assessments SIA gas decreased slightly 1% between 2003 and and dialogue help clarify likely benefits, 2004, as overall throughput increased at a identify potential impacts and understand higher rate than the emissions.
We are also concerns so that these can be addressed.
seeking to identify, develop and integrate We also have guidance in place to protect good practices within our operations for human rights as part of our normal business biodiversity protection.
BG Group supports the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
We believe that successful partnerships with host countries and communities are an essential part of good and sustainable returns for shareholders.
Assets develop Community Investment Plans CIP to link social investment to business objectives.
Welldesigned social development projects can help maintain a licence to grow, build better relationships with stakeholders and improve employee morale.
ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE The worlds energy demands are growing.
Our core business is the production, supply www.
com policy statement and distribution of gas to meet some of this BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Governance and Risk Corporate governance describes the governance practices followed by BG Group all of the necessary range of qualities, system by which companies are directed compared to those required of US domestic skills and experience to lead the Company and controlled.
We have an established companies listed on the NYSE.
The Directors biographies are framework built upon our Statement of set out on pages 12 and 13 of this Review.
SEC STATEMENT ON CONTROLS Business Principles and supporting Group In the opinion of the Board, each of its AND PROCEDURES policies more information on these can non-executive Directors is independent The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial be found on the BG Group website.
Officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of Our governance framework is overseen by the Groups disclosure controls and procedures The posts of the Chairman and the our Board of Directors and focuses on three as at 31 December 2004, have concluded that, Chief Executive are separated and their core elements: the organisational structure, as of such date, the Groups disclosure controls responsibilities are clearly established, set the Groups internal control framework, and and procedures were effective.
out in writing and have been agreed by the robust review and assurance processes.
The Chairman is responsible for the There were no changes in the Groups working and leadership of the Board and for BG Group shares are listed on the London internal controls over financial reporting that the balance of its membership, subject to Stock Exchange and, as such, we are required occurred during the year ended 31 December Board and shareholder approval.
The Chief to comply with the Listing Rules of the UK 2004 that have materially affected, or are Executive is responsible for leading and Listing Authority.
Our shares are also listed reasonably likely to affect, the Groups managing the business within the on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and internal control over financial reporting.
authorities delegated by the Board.
we are therefore required to comply SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 2002 with the NYSEs listing rules.
Wherever possible, the Directors are expected SARBANES-OXLEY to attend all Board meetings and the Annual 10 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE Sarbanes-Oxley was implemented to General Meeting.
The Board has regular PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE protect investors by improving the accuracy scheduled meetings throughout the year.
As a UK listed company we are required to and reliability of corporate disclosure.
Additional meetings of the Board are held include a statement on corporate governance BG Group is making preparations to as and when deemed necessary.
This statement must ensure compliance with the reporting include an explanation of how we have COMPANY SECRETARY requirements prescribed by Section 404 of applied the principles set out in Section 1 On 9 November 2004 the Board approved Sarbanes-Oxley relative to internal controls of the Combined Code and whether or not the appointment of Ben Mathews as over financial reporting of Sarbanes-Oxley.
we have complied throughout the year with Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary its provisions.
THE BOARD is responsible for ensuring that correct Board The Board is responsible for setting the procedures are followed, ensuring effective The Directors consider that the Company Group strategy and providing leadership communication flows and for advising the has complied throughout the year ended within a governance framework, which Board through the Chairman on all 31 December 2004 with the provisions of it oversees.
This responsibility extends governance matters.
Section 1 of the Combined Code.
to ensuring that the appropriate level of BOARD EVALUATION US CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RULES financial and human resources are made During the year, the Board conducted a Under the NYSE corporate governance available to management in the delivery comprehensive and rigorous evaluation standards approved by the Securities and of the agreed strategy, whilst also taking of the performance of the Board, its principal Exchange Commission in November 2003, oversight responsibility for financial committees, individual Directors and the foreign private issuers, including BG Group, performance, internal controls and risk Chairman.
The Directors have concluded are obliged to disclose any significant management of the Group.
that the Board and its committees operate ways in which their corporate governance The Board is made up of a non-executive effectively and consider that each Director practices differ from those followed by Chairman, the Chief Executive, Deputy Chief is contributing to the overall effectiveness US domestic companies.
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and and success of the Group.
The Directors consider that there are eight independent non-executive Directors.
no significant differences in corporate Collectively, the Board believes it possesses BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE RISK MANAGEMENT Under the governance framework, the There is a continuous process for identifying, Board has established an organisational evaluating and managing the significant structure which is designed to allow for risks faced by the Group.
This process was effective and efficient decision-making in place throughout 2004.
Risk assessment across the organisation.
and evaluation are incorporated into the key business processes including strategy The Board has delegated authority to the and business planning, investment appraisal, following committees on specific matters: performance management and health, Group Executive Committee safety, security and environment management processes.
Chairmans Committee BG Group is affected by a number of risks, Audit Committee not all of which are within our control.
Remuneration Committee Outlined below are the risk factors that may affect our business and share price.
Other Nominations Committee factors besides those listed below may also Finance Committee adversely affect the Group.
Corporate Responsibility Committee Strategy THE INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Exploration and new ventures AND REVIEW AND ASSURANCE PROCESSES 11 Project pre-sanction definition Under the governance framework, the and commercialisation Board is also responsible for the Groups system of internal control and has oversight Project delivery responsibility for the Groups review and Operations assurance processes.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than Political climate to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Regulatory climate business objectives.
Accordingly, it provides reasonable rather than absolute assurance Portfolio against material loss or misstatement.
Stakeholder engagement For more information on our governance Corporate Responsibility processes, visit our website.
Health, Safety, Security and Environment Commodity prices Treasury Further details on each of these risk factors are set out on pages 35 to 38 of the Annual Report and Accounts and on our website.
com ara BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Board of Directors 1 Sir Robert Wilson KCMG 61 Chairman Sir Robert Wilson was appointed Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004, having been a nonexecutive Director since September 2002.
He was chairman of Rio Tinto plc from 1997 to 2003 and prior to that was chief executive between 1991 and 1997.
He is also chairman of The Economist Group and a non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline 1 2 3 plc.
He has previously been a non-executive director of Diageo plc, BP plc and The Boots Company PLC.
b, d, e, g 2 Frank Chapman 51 Chief Executive Frank Chapman was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 23 October 2000, having been appointed to the Board of BG plc in February 1997.
He joined British Gas plc in November 1996 as Managing Director, Exploration and Production.
4 5 6 He is an engineer and has worked in the oil and gas industry for 30 years.
Prior to joining British Gas plc, he spent 22 years with Shell and BP.
a, b, d 12 3 William Friedrich 56 Deputy Chief Executive and General Counsel William Friedrich was appointed Deputy Chief Executive with effect from 23 October 2000.
He is also responsible for the Groups operations in North 7 8 9 and South America and for Health, Safety, Security and Environment.
He joined British Gas plc in December 1995 as General Counsel after a 20 year career with Shearman & Sterling, where he became a partner in 1983.
Whilst with the firm, he practised as a general corporate lawyer, working mainly on international transactions, and ultimately headed the firms worldwide project development and project finance practice.
a, b, d 10 11 12 Membership of committees a Group Executive b Chairmans c Audit d Finance e Nominations f Remuneration g Corporate Responsibility BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 4 Ashley Almanza 41 7 Sir John Coles GCMG 67 10 Baroness Hogg 58 Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ashley Almanza was appointed Chief Financial Sir John Coles was appointed to the Board of Baroness Hogg was appointed to the Board Officer with effect from 1 August 2002.
He is BG plc as a non-executive Director in March 1998. as a non-executive Director on 27 January 2005. responsible for Group finance, tax, treasury, investor He had a 37 year career with the Foreign and She is a former head of the Prime Ministers Policy relations and internal audit.
He joined British Gas Commonwealth Office FCO and retired as Unit and has extensive experience of business, plc in 1993 and has held a number of Corporate and Permanent Under-Secretary of State in the FCO and government and the media.
She is chairman of Business Unit roles including Finance Director of Head of the Diplomatic Service in November 1997.
3i Group plc and Frontier Economics Ltd, deputy BG International Downstream and Deputy Finance He is chairman of Sight Savers International.
f, g chairman and senior independent director of GKN Director of BG International.
He acted as Group plc, a non-executive director of Carnival plc and 8 Paul Collins 68 Finance Director from October 2000 to January 2001 Carnival Corporation and is a member of the Non-Executive Director before he was appointed Group Financial Controller.
c, f Paul Collins was appointed to the Board as a Prior to joining British Gas plc he trained as a non-executive Director with effect from 23 October 11 Dame Stella Rimington DCB 69 chartered accountant, working in South Africa and 2000 after a long career with Citigroup Inc.
a, b, d joined Citicorp in 1961 and subsequently served as Dame Stella Rimington was appointed 5 Keith Mackrell 72 the chief investment officer, headed the financial to the Board of BG plc as a non-executive Director in Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director markets division, corporate planning, finance and February 1997.
She had a career with the Security Keith Mackrell was appointed Deputy Chairman administration, and Europe, Africa and the Middle Service spanning 27 years.
She was the first woman on 23 October 2000, having been appointed to the East.
He was appointed a director of Citicorp and Director General of MI5 and the first person to hold Board of British Gas plc as a non-executive Director its principal subsidiary, Citibank, in 1985 and vicethe post to have her name made public.
The Board nominated him Senior chairman in 1988.
He is a director of Actis Capital Stella Rimington will stand down as a Director at Independent Director on 1 January 2001.
He is also LLP, The Enstar Group and a director and vice the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on a non-executive director of Gartmore Asia Pacific chairman of Nokia Corporation.
He is a governor of the London School 9 Elwyn Eilledge CBE 69 12 Lord Sharman 62 of Economics.
He is a former director of Shell Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director International Petroleum Company Limited with Elwyn Eilledge was appointed to the Board of BG plc Lord Sharman was appointed to the Board which he had a career spanning 35 years.
Keith as a non-executive Director in February 1997.
He is as a non-executive Director with effect from Mackrell will stand down as a Director at the also chairman of the Financial Reporting Advisory 23 October 2000.
He is currently non-executive conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on Board to the Treasury and former chairman of BTR chairman of Aegis Group plc, deputy chairman of 4 May 2005. b, c, e plc.
A chartered accountant, he was previously Group 4 Securicor plc, and non-executive director 6 Peter Backhouse 53 chairman of Ernst and Young International Limited, of Reed Elsevier plc and Aviva plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director with which he worked for nearly 30 years.
Elwyn member of the Supervisory Board of ABN Amro NV.
Peter Backhouse was appointed to the Board Eilledge will stand down as a Director at the A chartered accountant, he was chairman of KPMG as a non-executive Director in July 2000.
He was conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on International from 1997 to 1999, having been a formerly executive vice president, refining and 4 May 2005. c, f senior partner since 1994. c marketing at BP Amoco plc.
Previous roles at BP included deputy chief executive of BP Oil and chief executive of BP Oil Europe.
He gained considerable gas experience in international LNG and in UK natural gas as head of BPs UK gas marketing business.
He is also a member of the Advisory Board of Carlyle Riverstone Energy Partners, a US private equity fund.
c, f BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Summary Directors Report A full description of BG Groups financial dividend of 2.08p per share bringing the AGM full year dividend to 3.81p per share, an The Annual General Meeting AGM will be performance is set out in the BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004 or on increase of 10% compared with last year.
held at 11.00am on Wednesday 4 May 2005 at the International Convention Centre, our website.
The final dividend will be paid to UK shareholders on 13 May 2005 20 May 2005 Birmingham.
The Notice of AGM, which BG Group has four main business includes an explanation of the proposed to American Depositary Receipt holders.
segments: Exploration & Production: resolutions including four special resolutions, Liquefied Natural Gas: Transmission In considering the dividend level, the is set out on pages 23 to 28.
Board takes account of the outlook for IFRS earnings growth, cash flow generation An explanation of each segment can be From 1 January 2005, BG Group will no longer found on page 1 of this Annual Review.
The aim is to account under UK GAAP: it will present its provide sustainable, long-term growth EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS primary financial statements under in the dividend.
There were no exceptional operating International Financial Reporting Standards items in either 2004 or 2003.
It is expected that, in future, the interim IFRS adopted at the European level.
dividend will be set at half the preceding BG Group has prepared a restatement of its EARNINGS PER SHARE AND RATIOS full year dividend.
2003 and 2004 income statements and Earnings for the financial year excluding balance sheets to comply with IFRS.
Further exceptional items were 842m, compared POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS detail is provided in the BG Group Annual to 683m in 2003.
Earnings per share, In 2002, at the request of the Northern Report and Accounts 2004 and on our website.
excluding exceptional items, increased Ireland Authority for Energy Regulation, from 19.4p in 2003 to 23.8p in 2004.
Earnings the shareholders of Premier Transmission INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 14 and earnings per share including exceptional Limited PTL, BG Group 50% commenced The independent auditors report on items were 904m 2003 768m and 25.6p discussions to sell PTL to a purchaser the full Financial Statements for the year 2003 21.8p respectively.
funded 100% by debt under a mutual ended 31 December 2004 and on the structure designed to deliver cost savings auditable part of the Directors Report BG Groups gearing ratio debt divided to Northern Irelands gas consumers.
was unqualified and did not contain a by debt plus equity was 17.9% as at On 25 February 2005, BG Group with the statement concerning accounting records 31 December 2004 compared to 15.5% other PTL shareholders KeySpan CI Ltd or failure to obtain necessary information the previous year.
The increase reflected an and KeySpan UK Limited signed a and explanations.
increase in net debt from 721m to 999m conditional share sale and purchase mainly attributable to capital investment and The independent auditors report did not agreement to sell the entire issued share the acquisition of two LNG tankers under contain a statement under Section 237 2 or capital of PTL to Premier Transmission finance leases.
237 3 of the Companies Act 1985. Financing Company Limited.
This transaction BG Groups post-tax return on average is not expected to have a material impact on This summary Financial Statement the Groups financial position.
capital employed ROACE was 17.6% was signed on behalf of the Board on compared to 16.3% in 2003.
7 March 2005 by: PROGRESS AND OUTLOOK DIVIDEND The development of BG Groups Sir Robert Wilson Chairman The Board is recommending a final businesses is discussed on pages 4 to 7.
Ashley Almanza Chief Financial Officer www.
com ara BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Summary Remuneration report This report provides a summary of BG Groups to reinforce our strong performance ethic.
The varying performance periods and remuneration policy.
The full Remuneration performance conditions of the three schemes The central premise of the policy is that, report is set out on pages 51 to 60 of the combine and complement each other to while reward arrangements should be Annual Report and Accounts 2004. enable the measurement and reward of both market competitive, employees should look shortand long-term performance and of to performance related incentives rather Responsibility for reviewing Group absolute AIS, sustained CSOS and than base salaries to achieve above average remuneration strategy and policy, comparative LTIS financial performance.
Performance related incentive recommending any changes and approving schemes form a significant proportion of the individual remuneration packages for the In defining the Groups remuneration total reward package for executives and are Executive Directors rests with the policy, the Committee takes into account designed to align executives interests with Remuneration Committee.
advice received from external consultants those of shareholders and establish a clear and also best practice guidelines set by The Committee consists exclusively of link between pay and performance.
institutional shareholder bodies, including independent non-executive Directors the principles and guidelines on executive To implement our policy, we have a and meets on at least four occasions remuneration issued by the Association of a well-developed, Group-wide performance each year.
The Committee reviews the British Insurers ABI.
management system and we operate remuneration policy on a regular basis three complementary performance related and recommends changes as and when BASE SALARIES incentive schemes for executives: appropriate.
During the year, changes Executive Directors salaries are were made to the Company Share Option benchmarked against the median of the the Annual Incentive Scheme AIS Scheme CSOS.
Changes were also made FTSE 50 and reviewed each year with any designed to focus executives on the to the way that the Company operates the changes taking effect from 1 April.
business priorities of the financial year and 15 CSOS and the Long Term Incentive Scheme This review takes into account individual to reinforce our individual and Company LTIS together.
Details of these changes performance and market competitiveness.
performance ethic: can be found below.
Pensionable salary is derived from base the LTIS aims to motivate participants to salary only.
SUMMARY REMUNERATION POLICY b maximise total shareholder return TSR BG Group needs to be able to employ and ANNUAL INCENTIVE SCHEME as measured against a comparator group retain international employees of the highest The Company operates a cash based of international oil and gas companies over calibre with the necessary skills, capabilities annual incentive scheme, which provides a period of three years: and and experience to execute its business an incentive opportunity in the range the CSOS aims to drive real earnings strategy and thereby deliver strong growth.
At the start growth over the long term.
The mechanism The catchment area for recruitment is of the incentive year 1 January, based used for measuring this is the growth in increasingly outside the UK and the required on the Companys business priorities, the c the Groups earnings per share EPS talent is scarce.
Committee sets the performance measures relative to the growth in the Retail Price and the Board sets challenging stretch and The overriding objectives of our remuneration Index, excluding mortgage interest budget financial performance targets.
Incentives at the higher end of the range to enable the recruitment and retention Further details of the AIS, the LTIS and the are payable only for demonstrably superior of this limited resource: and CSOS are set out below.
a Membership of the Remuneration Committee is shown on pages 12 and 13. b TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from holding a companys shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and other payments to, or by, shareholders within the period.
c EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings for the financial year excluding exceptional items by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and ranking for dividend during the year.
EPS is published quarterly when BG Group reports its results.
For grants made on or after 21 July 2004, the Groups published EPS is adjusted to take into account the volatility of both commodity prices and exchange rates.
See page 16 for further details.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Summary Remuneration report continued For the Executive Directors, the financial allocations to be made to Executive Directors Company must achieve the Number One performance measures for the 2004 incentive within the maximum combined EPV.
Awards TSR performance position within the year were EPS and return on average capital will always be made under both schemes.
Seventy-five per cent of a employed ROACE.
Both these measures During 2004 the Remuneration Committee shares will be transferred if upper quartile were adjusted to take into account the reviewed this blend for future CSOS grants TSR performance is achieved.
A proportion volatility of upstream prices and the and LTIS allocations and decided that not of between 75% and 100% of the allocated US$ UK exchange rate.
These measures less than 20% and not more than 80% of shares will be transferred for between upper will also apply for 2005. the total combined EPV will be delivered quartile and Number One performance.
The maximum combined 30% of the allocated shares will be transferred When determining actual incentive EPV of 175% of base salary has not changed.
if median TSR performance is achieved.
payments, the Remuneration Committee When making the decision on the exact considers overall Group performance, A proportion of between 30% and 75% of mix, the Committee takes into consideration the allocated shares will be transferred including financial performance and a number of factors including cost, the health, safety, security and environmental for between median and upper quartile performance conditions considered to be key performance.
Below the median, all shares performance, performance relative to to BG Groups strategy at the time of the will be forfeited.
allocation or grant and the need to remain There is no retest provision under the LTIS Payments under the AIS are non-pensionable.
In the event of a change of control, LONG-TERM INCENTIVES ESTIMATED LONG TERM INCENTIVE SCHEME vesting of shares under the LTIS is not PRESENT VALUE EPV A limited number of employees are allocated automatic and would depend upon the EPV is a measure which describes the value, Company shares under the LTIS.
This extent to which the performance conditions 16 at the time of grant or allocation, of longallocation marks the beginning of a three had been met at the time.
term incentives which may, or may not, pay year performance period.
The Companys TSR Shares allocated under the 2000 LTIS scheme out in the future.
This measure, which is performance against that of a comparator were transferred to eligible employees on based on generally accepted remuneration group over the three year period will 11 November 2004 when the one year practice, takes account of the performance determine what proportion of the allocated retention period ended.
The aggregate value conditions and the risk that grants and shares will be transferred into the ownership of shares transferred to Executive Directors allocations may be forfeited.
This EPV is then of the employee.
was 679 848. used to determine the appropriate levels of The LTIS comparator group for the 2002, face value CSOS grants and LTIS allocations.
COMPANY SHARE OPTION SCHEME 2003 and 2004 allocations comprises The Company grants an option over its As agreed by shareholders at our Annual 21 international oil and gas companies shares to each eligible employee and the General Meeting in 2002, the Committee is including BG Group plc of which 12 are option price is set at the fair market value Historical TSR performance able to make awards under both schemes, headquartered in the USA, three in the UK at the time of the grant.
The CSOS measures up to a maximum combined EPV of 175% of and six elsewhere in Europe.
performance according to EPS growth relative base salary each year.
For the 2002, 2003 and 2004 LTIS allocations, to the growth in the Retail Price Index, BLEND OF CSOS AND LTIS the Committee has set the following excluding mortgage interest repayments Each year, the Committee decides on the performance conditions.
In July 2004, the Committee decided appropriate blend of CSOS grants and LTIS allocated shares to be transferred, the to adjust the calculation of EPS growth for a Average capital employed consists of total shareholders funds plus net borrowings averaged between the start and end of year.
ROACE represents profits before tax excluding exceptional items plus net interest payable on net borrowings as a percentage of average capital employed.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 future grants by using constant commodity ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES SERVICE CONTRACTS prices and constant exchange rates.
The In order to encourage share ownership, The Executive Directors service contracts, Committee considers that these adjustments the Company currently provides two including arrangements for early termination, will strengthen the link between are carefully considered by the Committee all-employee share schemes for its UK performance and reward by reducing employees, the Share Incentive Plan SIP and are designed to recruit, retain and sensitivity to external uncontrollable factors.
motivate Directors of the quality required and the Sharesave Scheme.
To the extent that the performance target to manage the Company.
The Committee Ashley Almanza made a gain of 4 907 on has been met three years from the date of considers that a notice period of one year the exercise of his Sharesave options during grant, the option may be exercised in whole is appropriate.
No other Directors exercised any or in part at any time up to the expiry of ten Sharesave options during the year.
The Executive Directors service contracts years from the date of grant.
contain change of control provisions.
Other SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES The Committee has decided to remove than change of control, the Executive Shareholding guidelines exist for Executive fixed point retests for grants made from Directors service contracts do not contain Directors, Group Executive Committee 21 July 2004 and onwards.
provisions for compensation in the event members and certain other senior employees of early termination.
For the 2002, 2003 and 2004 grants, the to encourage substantial long-term share Remuneration Committee set the following NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ownership.
These require that, over a period performance targets.
For all of the option to The Board aims to recruit non-executive of five years from the introduction of the be exercisable, the Company must achieve Directors of a high calibre with broad guidelines in 2002 or the Directors EPS growth over three years of RPIX plus commercial, international or other relevant appointment, if later, Executive Directors 30%.
Half of the option will be exercisable experience.
Non-executive Directors are build up, and then retain, a holding of shares 17 if EPS growth over three years is RPIX plus appointed by the Board on the with a value equivalent to 200% of salary.
A proportion of between half and all of recommendation of the Nominations The guidelines require that, in relation to the option will be exercisable if the Company Committee.
Their appointment is for the 2002 and later LTIS allocations, vested achieves EPS growth over three years of RPIX an initial term of three years, subject shares net of tax should be retained by the plus between 15% and 30%.
Below this, the to election by shareholders at the first individual until the required shareholding option cannot be exercised.
These Annual General Meeting following their performance targets also applied to the 2001 level is reached.
They are generally reappointed grant.
Fixed point retesting is allowed in years for a second term of three years, subject PENSION four and five for the grants made in 2002 to re-election by shareholders.
There is The Executive Directors are members and 2003. no notice period and no provision for of the BG Pension Scheme and the BG termination payments.
The terms of In the event of a change of control, exercise Supplementary Benefits Scheme.
Benefits engagement of the non-executive Directors of the option under the CSOS is not accrue at a rate designed to target a pension are set out in a letter of appointment.
automatic and would depend upon the equivalent to two-thirds of their final 12 extent to which the performance condition months salary on retirement from BG Group Non-executive Directors other than the had been satisfied at the time.
at age 60, inclusive of pension rights earned Chairman are paid a basic annual fee of either in previous employments or previous 55 000.
Additional fees are also payable, None of the Directors exercised any pension arrangements.
CSOS options during the year.
for example, for membership of or chairing BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Summary Remuneration report continued a committee of the Board or acting as Deputy Chairman.
Fees are reviewed annually, taking into account time commitment, competition for high quality non-executive Directors and market movements.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes, incentive schemes or pension schemes.
Sir Robert Wilson was appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2004.
In line with the other non-executive Directors, Sir Roberts appointment is for an initial three year term and there is no notice period and no provision for payment in the event of early termination.
Sir Robert Wilson is paid a fee of 500 000 per annum, which is next subject to review in July 2005.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH 18 The graph below shows BG Groups total shareholder return performance for the five year period ended 31 December 2004 calculated in accordance with the Regulations against the performance of the FTSE 100.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 because this is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Company is a member.
Historical TSR Performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding of BG Group plc shares over the five year period ended 31 December 2004.
BG Group 150 based on spot values 120 FTSE 100 based on spot values 90 60 30 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Source: Towers Perrin BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Summary Directors emoluments, pension benefits and shareholdings Total Total emoluments emoluments Accrued Accrued Beneficial Beneficial excluding excluding annual annual interests in interests in pension c pension c pension pension ordinary ordinary 2004 2003 2004 2003 shares g shares g 000 pa 000 pa 2004 2003 Chairman a Sir Robert Wilson 501 175 47 500 70 000 32 000 b Executive Directors Ashley Almanza 841 922 699 931 75 54 33 896 25 889 Frank Chapman 1 424 982 1 268 993 307 254 224 549 223 117 William Friedrich 1 233 131 1 158 174 279 235 316 673 245 776 d Non-executive Directors 487 500 402 500 151 627 159 627 Former Directors e Sir Richard Giordano 42 930 1 790 554 n a 128 100 f David Benson 19 489 47 500 n a 8 000 a In line with the non-executive Directors other than Sir Richard Giordano, Sir Robert Wilson was paid a fee of 35 000 per annum from 1 January 2003 until 30 June 2003.
From 1 July 2003, this increased to 50 000 per annum until his appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2004. b Total emoluments of Executive Directors include payments under the AIS in respect of 2003 and 2004. c Total emoluments include taxable benefits, where appropriate.
d Each non-executive Director, other than the Chairman, is entitled to a fee of 55 000 per annum together with a membership fee of 5 000 per committee, other than for the 19 chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration committees.
The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration committees received an additional fee of 10 000 per annum until 30 June 2004.
From 1 July 2004, this increased to 15 000 for chairing the Audit Committee and remained at 10 000 for the Remuneration Committee.
Keith Mackrell, as Deputy Chairman of the Company, receives an additional fee of 70 000 per annum.
e Sir Richard Giordano retired as Chairman on 31 December 2003.
He gave notice of his resignation on 30 June 2003.
His employment terminated by agreement on 31 December 2003 and the Company paid him the sum of 250 000 in lieu of basic salary for the balance of his one year notice entitlement.
In addition, the Company paid Sir Richard the sum of 970 000, representing the cost of providing an office with full-time secretary and use of a car and driver in New York for a period of five years in accordance with his contract of employment.
The Company continues to pay reasonable fees incurred by his tax advisers and, as provided in his contract of employment, this benefit will continue for a period of two years following the cessation of his employment.
Sir Richard also continues to be entitled to private medical insurance and long-term care insurance.
The long-term care insurance is being paid by ten instalments.
f David Benson retired as a Director on 21 May 2004. g Interests include shares acquired pursuant to the BG Group Employee Profit Sharing Scheme which ceased to operate at the end of 2000 and the SIP but exclude interests in shares under the LTIS, CSOS and Sharesave Scheme.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Summary consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2004 2003 Exceptional Business Exceptional Business Operating profit Total items a performance b Total items a performance b Profit from all operations m m m m m m after deducting costs of Group turnover 4 082 4 082 3 587 3 587 running the businesses, including bad debts.
Operating costs 2 753 2 753 2 530 2 530 Group operating profit 1 329 1 329 1 057 1 057 Minority shareholders Share of operating profits less losses interests in joint ventures and associated The interests of other undertakings 193 193 194 194 parties who hold shares or other instruments in our Total operating profit 1 522 1 522 1 251 1 251 subsidiary companies.
Profit loss on disposal of fixed assets 92 92 117 117 Profit on ordinary activities Earnings per share before interest 1 614 92 1 522 1 368 117 1 251 Basic profit attributable to Net interest 70 70 78 78 shareholders divided by the weighted average number Profit on ordinary activities of ordinary shares in issue before taxation 1 544 92 1 452 1 290 117 1 173 during the year.
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 612 30 582 502 32 470 Diluted as per basic but assuming the issue of new Profit on ordinary activities 20 ordinary shares on exercise of after taxation 932 62 870 788 85 703 all the share options which Minority shareholders interest 28 28 20 20 have been granted.
Profit for the financial year 904 62 842 768 85 683 Dividends Dividends 135 122 Amounts paid to Transfer to reserves 769 646 shareholders comprising the interim dividend in Earnings per ordinary share: September 2004 and the final dividend payable in Basic 25.6p 1.8p 23.8p 21.8p 2.4p 19.4p May 2005 subject to final Diluted 25.6p 1.8p 23.8p 21.8p 2.4p 19.4p approval at the AGM.
Dividends per ordinary share: Interim 1.73p 1.60p Final 2.08p 1.86p c Directors remuneration m 4.5 5.6 Capital expenditure including investment m 1 894 1 054 Average number of employees 4 836 4 596 a Exceptional items are detailed on page 14. b Business performance represents the underlying performance of BG Group, excluding the impact of exceptional items.
c Directors remuneration for 2004 includes emoluments of 2.8m 2003 4.1m and 1.7m 2003 1.5m in respect of bonus payments under the AIS.
As at 31 December 2004, the three Executive Directors were members of the BG Pension Scheme and the BG Supplementary Benefits Scheme, which are both defined benefit pension schemes.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Segmental analysis for the year ended 31 December Group turnover Total operating profit loss 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Exploration and Production 2 153 1 794 1 204 959 Liquefied Natural Gas 1 098 945 94 77 Transmission and Distribution 644 678 134 116 Power Generation 201 184 121 129 Other activities 8 3 31 30 Less: intra-group sales 22 17 4 082 3 587 1 522 1 251 Summary consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2004 2003 m m Fixed assets 6 845 5 898 Current assets 1 747 1 269 21 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1 971 1 483 Net current liabilities 224 214 Total assets less current liabilities 6 621 5 684 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 918 693 Provisions for liabilities and charges 1 113 1 075 4 590 3 916 BG Group shareholders funds 4 570 3 925 Minority shareholders interest 20 9 4 590 3 916 Gearing ratio debt debt equity 17.9% 15.5% Debt equity ratio debt equity 21.8% 18.4% IMPORTANT NOTE This Annual Review is only a summary of information in the Companys accounts, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report.
It does not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or the Group or of its policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration as would be provided by the full BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004.
Shareholders who would like more detailed information may obtain a copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts for 2004 from our website www.
com Alternatively it is available free of charge from the Head of Investor Relations at the registered office address on the back page.
If you wish to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts in future years please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at their address shown on the back page.
We present a few non-GAAP measures in our Annual Review.
Further explanation of these measures and why we feel these are useful in understanding our results are set out in the Annual Report and Accounts for 2004. www.
com ara BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Independent Auditors statement to the members of BG Group plc We have examined the Summary Financial Statements, set out on pages 14 to 21 BASIS OF OPINION of this document.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors are responsible for preparing this summarised Annual Review in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion OPINION on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within this summarised In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the Annual Annual Review with the Annual Report and Accounts, Directors Report and the Report and Accounts, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report of BG Group plc for the year ended 31 December Report of BG Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2004 and complies with 2004 and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other regulations made thereunder.
information contained in this summarised Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or  LLP material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, 1 Embankment Place, This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the London WC2N 6RH 7 March 2005 Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this Note: A copy of the Summary Financial Statements is placed on the BG Group website.
statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly The maintenance and integrity of the BG Group website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters agreed by our prior consent in writing.
and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Summary Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
22 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Notice of sixth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc This document is important.
If you are in any doubt about its content, you should Resolution 4 consult an appropriate independent adviser.
To elect Baroness Hogg as a Director of the Company.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in BG Group plc, please send this Resolution 5 document and all accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company, to hold the stockbroker, bank or other agent through or to whom the sale or transfer was office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid effected so that they can be passed on to the person who now owns the shares.
The sixth Annual General Meeting AGM of BG Group plc the Company will be Resolution 6 held in Hall 1 of the International Convention Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA on To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Wednesday 4 May 2005 at 11.00am for the transaction of the business set out below.
Resolution 7 This Notice contains the resolutions to be voted on at the Companys AGM.
That in accordance with Part XA of the Companies Act 1985 as amended the Act, Resolutions 1 to 9 below are ordinary resolutions which will be passed if more the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary BG International Limited each be than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the resolutions.
Resolutions 10 to 13 are and is hereby authorised: special resolutions which will be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast are a to make donations to EU political organisations not exceeding 25 000 in in favour of the resolutions.
total: and The resolutions include proposals to amend the Memorandum and Articles of b to incur EU political expenditure not exceeding 25 000 in total, during Association of the Company.
The full terms and proposed text of the amendments the period commencing on the date of this resolution and ending on the will be available for inspection at the Meeting at the International Convention date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2006 or, if earlier, Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA from 10.00am until the conclusion of the Meeting and 4 August 2006. at 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT from the date of this Notice until the conclusion of the Meeting.
For the purpose of this resolution, donations, EU political organisations and EU political expenditure have the meanings given to them in Section 347A of the Act.
A poll will be called on each of the resolutions set out below.
Further detail is 23 set out in the explanatory notes.
Resolution 8 That the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 12.2 of the Companys ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS Articles of Association be renewed and for this purpose: Resolution 1 a the Section 80 amount be 123 368 432: and To receive the accounts and reports of the Directors and the Auditors for the year ended 31 December 2004. b the prescribed period be the period ending on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2006 or, if earlier, 4 August 2006.
Resolution 2 To approve the Remuneration Report as set out on pages 51 to 60 of the Resolution 9 BG Group Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004.
That, in accordance with Article 82 of the Companys Articles of Association, Resolution 3 the maximum aggregate fees that can be paid each year to the Directors of the Company excluding amounts paid as special pay as defined under To declare a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004 of 2.08 pence per ordinary share payable on 13 May 2005 to holders of ordinary Article 83, amounts paid as expenses under Article 84 and any payments shares on the register of shareholders of the Company at the close of business under Article 85 of the Articles of Association be increased from 500 000 on 1 April 2005. to 1 000 000.
1 The following documents, which are available for inspection during normal 2 The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities business hours at the registered office of the Company on any weekday Regulations 1995, specifies that only those holders of ordinary shares Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded, will also be available for registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on inspection at the place of the AGM from 10.00am on the day of the Meeting 2 May 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the AGM in respect until its conclusion: of the number of ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
i copies of all Directors service contracts and letters of appointment: Changes to entries on the register of members after 6.00pm ii the register of interests of the Directors in the share capital of the on 2 May 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to Company: and attend or vote at the Meeting.
iii the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and the Memorandum and Articles of Association amended to reflect the changes proposed by Resolutions 12 and 13.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Notice of sixth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of ordinary shares may be made in SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS pursuance of any such contract.
Resolution 10 Resolution 12 That the Directors be empowered to allot equity securities as defined That: in Section 94 of the Act, entirely paid for in cash: a of an unlimited amount in connection with a rights issue as defined in a Clause 4.37 of the Companys Memorandum of Association be amended: the Companys Articles of Association : and i by the insertion of a new Clause 4.37.3 as follows: b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, of an amount up 4.37.3 to provide a Director, former Director, Company Secretary or other to 17 692 165, free of the restrictions in Section 89 1 of the Act officer of the Company with funds to meet expenditure incurred or to provided that: be incurred by him in defending any criminal or civil proceedings or in i this power shall expire on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the connection with any application under those provisions of the Companies Act 1985 referred to in Section 337A of that Act and to do Company in 2006 or, if earlier, 4 August 2006 and is in substitution for all previous such powers, which shall cease to have effect from the date anything to enable a Director, former Director, Company Secretary or other officer of the Company to avoid incurring such expenditure: of this Resolution, without affecting the validity of any allotment of securities already made under them: and ii by the deletion of and from the end of Clause 4.37.1 iii : and ii during that period, the Directors can make offers and enter into iii by the deletion of the full stop at the end of Clause 4.37.2 and the agreements which would, or might, require equity securities to be insertion of : and.
b The Companys Articles of Association be amended as follows: In working out the maximum amount of equity securities for the purposes of paragraph b above, the nominal value of rights to subscribe for shares or to i Article 107.2 be amended by the insertion of the following as the ninth convert any securities into shares will be taken as the nominal value of the bullet point: 24 shares which would be allotted if the subscription or conversion takes place.
the funding of expenditure by one or more Directors in defending For the purposes of this Resolution: proceedings against him or them or doing anything to enable such Director or Directors to avoid incurring such expenditure.
a references except in paragraph b below to an allotment of equity securities shall include a sale of treasury shares: and and by the insertion of the following as the tenth bullet point: b the power granted by this Resolution, insofar as it relates to the allotment of indemnities in favour of Directors which are consistent with, or no equity securities rather than the sale of treasury shares, is granted pursuant more onerous than, the provisions of these Articles:.
to the authority under Section 80 of the Act conferred by Resolution 8. ii by the deletion of Article 148.1 and the insertion of a new Article 148.1 Resolution 11 as follows: That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market 148.1 Subject to the provisions of, and so far as is permitted by and consistent purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of ordinary shares of with the legislation and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, 10 pence each of the Company ordinary shares provided that: every Director, Company Secretary or other officer of the Company shall a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be acquired be indemnified by the Company out of its own funds against a any is 353 843 302: liability incurred by or attaching to him in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him in relation b the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 10 to the Company or any associated company as defined in Section pence, the nominal value of that share: 309A 6 of the Companies Act 1985 an Associated Company other than i any liability to the Company or any Associated Company and ii c the maximum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is an any liability of the kind referred to in Sections 309B 3 or 4 of the amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Companies Act 1985: and b any other liability incurred by or attaching ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List to him in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of his for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers and or is contracted to be purchased: and otherwise in relation to or in connection with his duties, powers or office.
d the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date of the Annual General Where a Director, Company Secretary or other officer of the Company Meeting of the Company in 2006 or, if earlier, 4 August 2006: but a contract for purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be executed is indemnified against any liability in accordance with this Article 148.1, BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 such indemnity shall extend to all costs, charges, losses, expenses and Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 1 liabilities incurred by him in relation thereto: The Directors must lay before the Meeting the accounts of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2004, the Directors Report, the Remuneration iii by the deletion of all of the provisions of Article 148.2 with the exception Report and the Auditors Report on the accounts and the auditable part of the of the final sentence: Article 148.1 also covers any liability to pay an Remuneration Report.
amount in respect of shares acquired by a nominee of the Company.
which shall remain: Remuneration Report Resolution 2 UK listed companies must put an ordinary resolution to shareholders at the iv by the insertion of a new Article 148.6 as follows: Annual General Meeting seeking approval of the Remuneration Report.
The vote is advisory in nature, in that payments made or promised to Directors will not have 148.6 Subject to the provisions of, and so far as is permitted by and to be repaid in the event that the resolution is not passed.
consistent with the legislation and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company i shall provide a Director, Company Secretary Declaration of a Dividend Resolution 3 or other officer of the Company with funds to meet expenditure A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 2.08 pence per ordinary incurred or to be incurred by him in defending any criminal or civil share is recommended by the Directors.
A final dividend can be paid only after it proceedings or in connection with any application under the has been declared by the shareholders at a general meeting.
It is proposed that provisions mentioned in Section 337A 2 of the Companies Act 1985 shareholders declare this dividend by passing Resolution 3.
If so declared, the final and ii shall do anything to enable a Director, Company Secretary dividend will be paid on 13 May 2005 to ordinary shareholders who were on the or other officer of the Company to avoid incurring such expenditure, register of the Company at the close of business on 1 April 2005.
ADR holders will but so that the terms set out in Section 337A 4 to 6 of the be entitled to receive the US$ equivalent of 0.104 per ADS on 20 May 2005.
Companies Act 1985 shall apply to any such provision of funds or An interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2004 of 1.73 pence per other things done.
ordinary share was paid on 10 September 2004.
Resolution 13 Election of Baroness Hogg Resolution 4 That the Companys Articles of Association be further amended by making the 25 The Companys Articles of Association require any Director newly appointed by the changes indicated in accordance with the document produced to the sixth Annual Board to retire at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
General Meeting of the Company and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes Baroness Hogg was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Director on of identification.
Biographical details of Baroness Hogg are given on page 13.
In reviewing the recommendation of the Nominations Committee concerning this Registered Office: By order of the Board election, the Board has concluded that Baroness Hogg is independent in character 100 Thames Valley Park Drive Ben Mathews and judgement and will make an effective and valuable contribution to the Board Reading Company Secretary and demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board unanimously recommends Berkshire RG6 1PT her election.
Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 7 March 2005 Re-appointment and Remuneration of Auditors A shareholder entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or Resolutions 5 and 6 proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which be a shareholder of the Company.
Further details of proxy appointment are given accounts are laid before the Company, to hold office until the next such meeting.
Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors propose that  LLP be reappointed as Auditors of the Company.
Resolution 6 proposes that the Audit Committee be authorised to determine the EXPLANATORY NOTES level of the Auditors remuneration.
In line with the recommendations by Paul Myners and the Shareholder Voting Working Group issued in January 2004 the Myners Report and Political Donations Resolution 7 with emerging best practice, voting at the Meeting will be by poll rather As stated in the Companys Statement of Business Principles, it is the Companys than by show of hands.
The Chairman will invite each shareholder and policy not to make contributions to political parties.
This policy is strictly adhered proxy present at the meeting to complete a poll card indicating how they to and there is no intention to change it.
Section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 wish to cast their votes in respect of each resolution.
In addition, the Chairman the Act includes very broad definitions of donations to EU political will cast the votes for which he has been appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will organisations and of EU political expenditure which may have the effect of be collected at the end of the meeting and the preliminary results declared.
covering a number of normal business activities that would not be thought to be Once the results have been verified by the Companys Registrar, they will political donations in the usual sense.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently be notified to the UK Listing Authority and published on the contravening the Act, the Directors consider that it would be prudent to follow Companys website.
the procedure specified in the Act to obtain shareholder approval for the Company BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Notice of sixth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued and BG International Limited each to make donations to EU political The Directors intend to exercise this power only when, in the light of market organisations of up to 25 000 and to incur EU political expenditure of up conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that to do so would be in the best to 25 000 in the forthcoming year.
BG International Limited is a wholly-owned interests of shareholders generally.
Before deciding on the course of action, the subsidiary of the Company and is the largest employer in the Group.
This Directors would take into account the impact of any purchase on earnings per authority will not be used to make any political donations as that expression share, as well as other investment opportunities and the overall financial position would have been understood before Part XA of the Act became law.
Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 8 Any shares purchased in this way will, unless the Directors determine that they The Directors are currently authorised to allot relevant securities.
However, this are to be held as treasury shares see below, be cancelled and the number of authority terminates on the date of the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
This shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
Shares held in treasury will not resolution proposes that such authority be renewed and that the Directors be automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into account in future authorised to allot up to 1 233 684 315 ordinary shares for the period ending on calculations of earnings per share unless they are subsequently resold or the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2006 or, if earlier, 4 August transferred out of treasury.
The authority represents one-third of the share capital of the Company in Following the implementation of the Treasury Shares Regulations, the Companies issue at 4 March 2005.
This amount complies with guidelines issued by investor Act 1985 now allows companies to hold shares acquired by way of market bodies.
The Directors have no present intention of issuing any relevant securities purchase in treasury, rather than having to cancel them.
The Company may now other than pursuant to employee share schemes.
therefore consider holding any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the Directors Fees Resolution 9 authority conferred by this resolution as treasury shares as an alternative to This resolution relates to fees payable to non-executive Directors.
It is proposed cancelling them.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue such that the maximum aggregate Directors fees that can be paid each year under treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and would provide the Company with Article 82 be increased from 500 000 to 1 000 000.
It is important for the additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The Directors believe Company to continue to attract and retain non-executive directors of the highest that it is desirable for the Company to have this flexibility.
calibre and that they are adequately compensated for the vital role they play.
The 26 No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights responsibilities of, and the time commitment expected from, non-executive will be exercisable in respect of treasury shares.
directors have increased significantly in the last few years and fees paid to nonexecutive directors are increasing accordingly.
This proposed increase of the The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired aggregate fees limit will give the Company the flexibility, over time, to increase 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital and the maximum and the non-executive Directors fees up to an aggregate total of 1 000 000 to ensure minimum prices at which they may be bought.
the retention of appropriately skilled and committed people.
The amendment to The total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding at the Article, if approved, will also provide the necessary flexibility for the 4 March 2005 is 54.2 million.
This represents 1.53% of the issued share capital at appointment of any additional non-executive directors.
Fees paid to Directors are that date.
If the Company bought back the maximum number of shares fully disclosed each year in the Remuneration Report, which is put to the general permitted pursuant to the passing of this resolution and cancelled them, then the meeting for approval see Resolution 2. total number of options to subscribe for equity shares outstanding at that date Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Resolution 10 would represent 1.7% of the issued share capital as reduced following those The Directors are currently authorised to allot unissued shares for cash without repurchases.
At 4 March 2005, there are no warrants to subscribe for ordinary first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings a preshares outstanding and no ordinary shares held in treasury.
However, this authority terminates on the date of the 2005 Annual Articles of Association Directors Indemnities and Funding General Meeting.
This resolution proposes that such authority be renewed and of Directors Defence Costs Resolution 12 that the Directors be authorised to allot up to 176 921 651 ordinary shares for cash The Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004 without a pre-emptive offer being made for the period ending on the date of the inserts a new section 309A in the Companies Act 1985 which allows a company to Companys Annual General Meeting in 2006 or, if earlier, 4 August 2006. indemnify its directors against any liability incurred by a director to any person Following the introduction of the Treasury Shares Regulations, this authority will other than the Company or any associated company in connection with any now also cover the sale of treasury shares for cash.
The authority represents negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company.
approximately 5% of the share capital in issue at 4 March 2005.
This amount This was previously prohibited under section 310 of the Companies Act 1985.
It complies with guidelines issued by investor bodies.
also inserts a new section 337A in the Companies Act 1985 which allows a Authority to Make Market Purchases of Own Ordinary Shares company to provide its directors with funds to cover the costs incurred by Resolution 11 a director in defending legal proceedings against him or her.
Previously, In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company to purchase its a company has only been able to fund a directors defence costs once final own ordinary shares and Resolution 11 seeks authority from shareholders to do so.
judgment in their favour has been reached.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Since directors are increasingly being added as defendants in legal actions against The Articles of Association already permit the Company to buy back, or agree to companies, and litigation is often very lengthy and expensive, the Board believes buy back in the future, any shares of any class in accordance with the Companies that the risk of directors being placed under significant personal financial strain is Act 1985 and other applicable laws.
If Resolution 11 is passed, the Company will increasing.
The Board believes that the provision of appropriate indemnities and continue to be authorised to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
the funding of directors defence costs as they are incurred, as permitted by the The amendments will specify that the Company may hold shares as treasury new legislation, are reasonable protection for the Directors, and are important shares, and provide that the Company will not exercise any rights in connection to ensure that the Company continues to attract and retain the highest calibre with them whilst held in treasury.
CREST voting by institutions The Board therefore proposes that the Memorandum and Articles of Association The Articles of Association already permit members of CREST to appoint proxies be amended to reflect the new statutory provisions.
The effect of the proposed electronically.
Some minor alterations to the Articles are proposed to clarify the resolution is: provisions in the light of the underlying legislation introduced in 2003. i To amend the wording of the existing indemnity in Article 148 to reflect the 3.
The deleted provisions reflect the language of the old The proposed amendments will allow the Company to keep electronic archives of statutory provisions and are therefore out-of-date.
The proposed amendment various documents relating to shareholders rather than hard copy archives of to Article 107.2 is to ensure that the Directors can collectively vote in respect such documents.
The Board believes that electronic archiving will result in cost of such indemnities.
ii To amend the Memorandum of Association to insert a power to fund 4.
Voting by poll defence costs and to amend the Articles of Association to provide that the Under the Articles of Association, in the first instance votes at a general meeting Company shall fund a directors defence costs should an action be brought are taken by a show of hands.
The Chairman may exercise his discretion to call for against him or her.
The proposed amendment to Article 107.2 is to ensure a poll in relation to any resolution.
At last years AGM, the Chairman called a poll that the Directors can collectively vote in respect of such funding.
27 Individual Directors of the Company would still be liable to pay any damages The Myners Report recommended that a poll should be called on all substantive awarded to the Company in an action against them by the Company, and to resolutions at companies general meetings and recommended that listed repay their defence costs, to the extent funded by the Company, if their defence companies consider including a provision to this effect in their articles of is unsuccessful.
The Board considers that the use of polls for voting on substantive The new legislation does not restrict the Company from indemnifying or funding resolutions will usually be appropriate since it produces a more transparent the defence costs of the Company Secretary or other officers of the Company.
The method of voting and an exact and definitive result.
Board believes it is appropriate that such persons be indemnified in respect of The proposed amendments to the Articles of Association will delete the their liabilities in such positions to the same extent as the Directors.
requirement that resolutions first be put to a show of hands and will provide Articles of Association Other Amendments Resolution 13 the flexibility to have all substantive resolutions voted on by way of a poll.
Procedural resolutions may continue to be decided by a show of hands unless Since April 2002, when the Companys Articles of Association were last amended, there have been a number of legislative, regulatory and best practice a poll is demanded.
developments which the Board believes should be reflected in the Articles.
Proxies speaking at general meeting number of further amendments to the Articles of Association are therefore being The Myners Report also recommended that proxies should be permitted to speak proposed to implement the various changes.
The Articles of Association currently provide that proxies Details of the proposed changes are set out below.
A copy of the Companys Articles cannot speak at general meetings of the Company.
of Association, as amended to reflect these changes, and the other changes The proposed amendments delete the prohibition on proxies speaking at the proposed pursuant to Resolution 12 above, will be available for inspection at the Companys general meetings and would therefore bring the Articles in line with Meeting at the International Convention Centre, Birmingham B1 2EA from 10.00am the Myners Report recommendation.
until the conclusion of the AGM and at 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT from the date of this Notice until the conclusion of the Meeting.
References to legislation The Articles of Association include references to certain acts which have now 1.
The proposed changes will update the Articles of Association to Treasury shares are shares in a listed company which have been purchased by replace references to out-of-date legislation with references to current legislation.
that company out of its distributable profits and then held by that company in treasury for re-sale for cash, transfer in connection with an employee share scheme or cancellation.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Notice of sixth Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc continued CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service Recommendation Your Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will above resolutions as they intend to do so themselves in respect of their own beneficial holdings, with the exception of Resolutions 9 and 12, where they will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member be abstaining.
is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting Appointing a proxy service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s A proxy form is enclosed with this Notice and instructions for its use are shown take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted on the form.
Proxies must be submitted by 11.00am on Monday 2 May 2005 to by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6BA.
Details members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s of how to submit your proxy electronically are given below.
are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Electronic proxy voting Shareholders may register the appointment of a proxy for the AGM electronically The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances at www.
co. uk, a website operated by the Companys Registrar, Lloyds set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Shareholders are advised to read the terms and conditions, shown on the website, relating to the use of this facility before appointing a proxy.
Summary of AGM business A summary of the business carried out at the meeting will be published on the Any electronic communication sent by a shareholder that is found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Electronic communication facilities are Groups website, www.
com available to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged in any way.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST 28 electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the AGM to be held on 4 May 2005 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by 11.00am on Monday 2 May 2005.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
co. uk Shareholder information HOW TO GET TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING BG GROUP CORPORATE INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS ISAs The map on the back cover shows the location of the AGM.
Carr Sheppards, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QN.
HOW TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT BG GROUP LOW COST SHARE DEALING SERVICES If you would like to learn more about our operations and business policies, the Information on a range of low cost share dealing services is available from following publications are available on our website, www.
com or on LloydsTSB Registrars on 0870 600 3951 or at www.
com dealing request from the registered office address: GIFTING YOUR SHARES 2004 Annual Report and Accounts To transfer your shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report Registrar for a gift transfer form.
The completed transfer form with the relevant share certificate s should be completed and returned to our Registrar to record Statement of Business Principles the change in ownership.
If you have a small number of shares and would like to donate them to charity, please ask our Registrar for a ShareGift charity donation ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS scheme transfer form.
Information is also available on the ShareGift website at Shareview, the electronic shareholder communications service from Lloyds TSB www.
org Registrars, gives you access to more information on your shareholding including balance movements, indicative share prices and information on recent dividend ENQUIRIES ABOUT THE GROUP payments.
It also allows you to change your registered address details, set up a Enquiries relating to the Groups results, business and financial position should be dividend mandate or change your existing mandated details.
To register for this made in writing to the Head of Investor Relations, at the registered office address free service, visit www.
co. uk and follow the simple instructions.
You or by email to invrel@bg-group.
com will need your shareholder reference number which can be found on your dividend tax voucher.
Through Shareview you can also register to receive ENQUIRIES ABOUT SHAREHOLDER MATTERS Company communications electronically.
Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Telephone 0870 600 3951 VOTING ELECTRONICALLY All shareholders can submit proxies for the Annual General Meeting electronically at www.
co. uk Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Shareview can appoint a proxy by logging on to Shareview and then clicking on Company meetings.
CONSOLIDATED TAX VOUCHERS Shareholders who have elected to have their dividends paid directly into their bank account receive just one tax voucher each year covering both the interim and final dividend payments.
The consolidated tax voucher enclosed with this Annual Review covers all dividends paid during the 2004 2005 tax year.
If you have more than one shareholder account in the same name s you will receive a separate letter in respect of the shareholdings in addition to the one shown on the consolidated tax voucher enclosed with this Annual Review.
Shareholders wishing to receive a tax voucher in respect of each dividend payment should contact Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address shown below or call 0870 600 3951.
OVERSEAS DIVIDEND PAYMENTS A service has been established to provide shareholders in over 30 countries worldwide with the opportunity to receive BG Group dividends in their local currency.
For a small flat rate fee, shareholders can have their dividends automatically converted from Sterling and paid into their bank account, normally within five working days of the dividend payment date.
co. uk For further details, please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address below www.
org D a l e E S ree u n t S m l o t s i r B m d 8 3 e Frederick Street Newhall Hill r A Pershore Street H Bull St i l Sheepcote Street reet l St. Hurst Street Hill Street A Suffolk St. Queensway Bull St. Livery Street D A457 San Cherry i g d P n i fold St d E b g Newhall Street Newhall Street p l g e w i t t n h s i U w o treet h H b K R a n A41 Constitution Hill i r e P i S m o r S m t The N EC and The N EC Arena r a u n e S e e t S r d t New Street.
a r sway d t Lanc e ' New S n treet S s a e t The NIA HOW TO GET TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IMPORTANT NOTE This Annual Review is only a summary of The map below shows the location of the AGM.
Car parking is information in the Companys accounts, Directors available at the International Convention Centre ICC as shown on Report and Directors Remuneration Report.
Parking spaces for the disabled are available on request not contain sufficient information to allow for as full from the ICC.
Please call 0121 644 6006 if you wish to reserve a space.
an understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company or the Group or of its policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration as would be provided by the M5 Junc.
1 M6 full BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2004.
6 Shareholders who would like more detailed Spaghetti Junction M40 M42 information may obtain a copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts for 2004 from our website St Chad's Circus www.
Alternatively, it is available free of charge from the Head of Investor Relations at the registered office address on the back page.
If you Colmore SNOW Circus wish to receive the full Annual Report and Accounts HILL in future years please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at their address, shown on the inside back cover.
P P Cautionary note to shareholders in relation to certain forward-looking statements P i P This Annual Review includes forward-looking i MOOR ST information within the meaning of Section 27A Brindleyplace of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and NEW ST P Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Certain statements included in P this Annual Review including, without limitation, those concerning: strategies, outlook and growth INTERNATIONAL opportunities: positioning to deliver future plans CONVENTION WHOLESALE and to realise potential for growth: the development M42 MARKETS Junc 5 CENTRE M40 and commencement of commercial operations of M42 Junc 1 FIVE M5 M40 new projects: liquidity and capital resources: the WAYS economic outlook for the gas and oil industries: regulation: and statements preceded by expected, scheduled, targeted, planned, proposed, Pedestrian area intended or similar statements, contain certain forward-looking statements concerning the Groups operations, economic performance and financial condition.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct.
Accordingly, results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors: changes in economic, market and competitive conditions, including gas and oil prices: success in implementing business and operating initiatives: changes in the regulatory environment and other BG Group plc government actions: the failure to ensure the safe 100 Thames Valley Park Drive operation of the Groups assets worldwide: Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT commodity risk, being the risk of a significant fluctuation in gas and or oil prices from those www.
com assumed: fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular the US$ UK exchange rate being Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 significantly different from that assumed: and risks encountered in the gas and oil exploration and production sector in general.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
Printed by Butler and Tanner Paradise Circus ow s e C h R at Graham St. n B a t u t m S S o Q t e m r Road R i t T e s a St. Vincen The ICC & Symphony Hall Albert St. l b a S ' l EET n Centenary Square b t r d S e r Holloway Head M5 Navigatio Junc.
3 S t o a r S o e e g h k d t D ri e C St Q e A t. e Colmore Ro w l h t t o S O u e Lane C R u Great C harl es s S t Queensway e A456 B e i et Co rporation Stre Q n U n s E E Corporatio w r N S a S y t W I ck ni r el A d. M Y id e 98 P190 d c l t e w a us y S e Corporation Street h g t i H a m es Wat t Q u e J e n s w a y
