Statement of Corporate Governance continued any meetings held with shareholders.
To ensure the directors are Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings During the Year kept up to date on current external views they also receive copies Ended 31 December 2004 of analyst research notes on the Company.
Group Audit Group Board Remuneration Nomination & Risk During the year the Company has undertaken surveys of both Total number of Meetings held in 2004 11 6 7 4 analyst and investor views on the Company.
The Board is provided Mr J R Windeler, Chairman 11 7 with a summary of the findings of these surveys, and has access Mr R A Pym, Group Chief Executive 11 to the full reports.
Mr M P S Barton, Senior Independent Non-Executive director 11 6 7 4 The Companys major institutional shareholders regularly meet Mr M J Allen, Non-Executive Director 11 4 7 with the Companys management.
The Chairman and senior Mr R L Banks, Executive Director 11 non-executive director attend results presentations, together Mrs J V Barker 10 4 with other non-executive directors who are able to do so.
Mr D J Bennett, Executive Director 11 All institutional shareholders have the opportunity to request Mr D Brougham, a meeting with the Chairman and non-executive directors via Non-Executive Director 10 4 4 the Companys web site.
The senior independent non-executive Miss F A Cairncross, director is available to deal with the concerns of institutional Non-Executive Director shareholders that cannot be resolved through the normal to 31 December 2004 11 6 7 channels of the Chairman or the Group Chief Executive.
Mr R M McTighe, Non-Executive Director 10 5 7 1 All shareholders have the opportunity to meet the directors at the Mrs M Salmon, Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company facilitates this by Non-Executive Director from 1 July 2004 5 holding the AGM in the evening at the Companys Leicestershire Mr C S Rhodes, Executive Director 11 head ofce, which is at the heart of its individual shareholder base.
Mr P J Stone, The Company website provides investors and potential investors Non-Executive Director with information about the Company, share price information, to 30 September 2004 7 3 Mr E J Watts, Non-Executive Director 10 5 74 annual and interim results, company announcements, investor presentations, group policies and terms of reference for its Board Committees.
Additionally, shareholders are also able to put questions to the Company via the website.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities UK company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time of the state of affairs of the Company and Group as at the end the financial position of the Company and to enable them to of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies that period.
In preparing those financial accounts, the directors Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps are required to: as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare financial accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume the Group will continue to be in business.
