Statements conjunction with our key partners MBNA branches in 2004, we now have a more for credit cards, Legal & General for life compact retail network providing us with assurance and long term investments, the branch distribution we need to grow and Zurich for household insurance.
the business in the future.
These partnerships continue to work Total sales through our branches continued well, and the total income we received to increase in 2004, whilst the number from our Partner 4 products grew in 2004. of branch transactions continued to fall.
Our direct bank with a high street This focus on sales has enabled us to deliver presence business model is based an increase of around 20% in product sales on satisfying changing customer per branch member of staff in 2004. behaviour.
Consumers are increasingly One of our key brand values is to deliver well informed about the products friendly and approachable customer offered by different financial services service.
We recently surveyed our own providers and are looking for excellent customers and the customers of the value.
They are also increasingly seven largest high street financial services confident in using the direct channels providers in the UK, asking them how of the telephone and the internet to satisfied they were with the service they purchase and to service those products.
Customers rated our telephone By offering great value products, we attract service higher than any of our competitors customers at a low unit acquisition cost.
and rated our branch service higher than Evidence of the excellent value we offer all but one of them.
23% is provided by the 2,400 Best Buy Wholesale Banking Underlying Post-Tax mentions that our products received Wholesale Banking delivered a strong Return on Equity in national newspapers in 2004, more performance during 2004 in both than any of our competitors.
Our business model also provides customers Pre-tax operating profit in Commercial with convenient, efficient ways to buy and Banking was up 11m to 91m.
Strong service products through direct channels.
growth was achieved in each core 19.5 22.1 23.3 This provides a positive experience for our product line.
customers, delivered at a low unit cost.
The success of this approach has led to Cash sales to financial institutions were a trebling in our sales of Retail Banking up by 24% to 53.4bn, business banking products over the internet in 2004, with current account openings increased by the proportion of our Core 4 products around 50% to more than 16,000, and sold online more than doubling to 20%.
commercial lending balances grew by 0.6bn to 4.7bn, with asset quality More than 500,000 customers are now remaining strong.
registered for our internet bank service, an increase of 300,000 since the end Pre-tax profit in Treasury was 60m 2003: of 2003, and the number of internet 47m, benefiting from an increase in the transactions carried out each month has number of structured finance transactions more than doubled over the past year.
A benchmarking study of leading UK 02 03 04 We have made further progress in financial service providers has shown implementing the Wholesale Banking Underlying Post-Tax that these rates of growth made Alliance strategy we announced in 2003.
During Return on Equity % & Leicester the fastest growing internet the year we announced the sale of our bank in 2004.
We have also received merchant acquiring business, enabling further conrmation of the strength Wholesale Banking to increase its focus on of our internet business, including its four core business lines of cash, lending, an award for best site in the banking business banking and treasury.
category from Blays Net ratings.
Our lending and business banking This further momentum towards direct operations have seen significant growth sales and service provides us with over the past couple of years and currently significant unit cost advantages, and contribute around 60% of Commercial we expect this to continue in the future.
We expect these business Our branches provide customers with lines to be key drivers of profit growth a place for face-to-face sales and support.
within Wholesale Banking in the future.
We They also provide an important physical will, however, continue to grow our cash presence for our brand.
Our strategy business through our cash sales-led requires a strong retail network, with strategy, and were pleased to complete negotiations successfully with Abbey during branches in the right locations to serve our current and future customers.
2004 to provide all of their ATM and Following the closure of some of our branch cash requirements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5 Chief Executives Statement continued Regulatory Developments been achieved whilst maintaining strong asset quality, as recently recognised by an In 2004 we have maintained an excellent regulatory record, but we will not be upgrade of our long term credit rating by Moodys to Aa3.
Alliance & Leicester is a responsible lender and we ensure, as The UK economy looks set for continued best we are able, that our customers are growth in the future, with the likelihood not borrowing more than they can afford that interest rates will now peak at rates to repay.
We recognise the importance lower than generally expected last year.
of embedding the principle of treating Unemployment remains low, a key customers fairly into the culture of our determinant of asset quality for the business and our brand values are already personal sector.
This scenario suggests well aligned to this.
We also focus on an outlook of continued market growth educating our customers, by improving in each of our core markets, albeit at the ways in which we provide information generally slower rates of growth than and by simplifying our product portfolios experienced in recent years.
and marketing campaigns, to make them more easily understood.
Against this economic backdrop, we will evolve our approach to credit risk.
This During the latter part of 2004 we trained will provide opportunities for future over 2,500 staff and implemented new revenue growth, whilst maintaining our procedures to ensure we complied with overall responsible approach to asset the introduction of the Financial Services quality.
Our responsible lending policies Authority rules on the conduct of mortgage 135% and strong asset quality will also leave us business from the end of October 2004, Increase in Internet well positioned, should future economic and the introduction of general insurance Banking Customers conditions prove to be less benign.
We have a coherent strategy and business For the year commencing 1 January 2005 model aligned to the changing needs we will be required to report our financial of customers in an environment of lower results under International Financial margins and intense competition.
The 100 225 530 strategy ensures Alliance & Leicester is implementation of the new processes well placed to deliver good returns to and procedures required to introduce shareholders and remain successful in these standards has taken up considerable 2005 and beyond.
The most significant impact of these new rules will be to alter the timing of when certain items will be Richard Pym recognised in our financial results.
Group Chief Executive Our Staff I thank all our staff for their contribution to our progress in 2004, which reects the hard work of an excellent team of people we have working across the Group, each committed to achieving our business goals 02 03 04 and sharing a clear vision of where we are heading.
Throughout the Group we have Internet Banking Customers 000 continued to strengthen our management teams, by developing our existing managers as well as recruiting new managers from outside the organisation.
Over 80% of our staff replied to our annual employee opinion survey, with the results showing evidence of continuing improvement in staff morale and job satisfaction.
The Future Our strategy has delivered good returns since its launch in July 2000, generating a total shareholder return of over 120%.
We have performed well against the detailed targets we set for ourselves and have grown our chosen franchises, signicantly improved our cost efficiency and delivered a return on equity considerably higher than the average for a European bank.
