52 Incorporation The Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the registered number 1731.
General Enquiries If you have an enquiry about the Company please contact the Incorporation Company Secretary at our registered office: Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 1TJ General Enquiries tel: 01382 201700 fax: 01382 225133 email: contact@alliancetrusts.
com Information For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
Confidentiality Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for stockholdings registered in your own name should be sent to Data Protection the Companys registrars, who should also be contacted if you would like dividends on stock registered in your own name to be Electronic Communications sent to your bank or building society account.
Our registrars are: Computershare Investor Services plc Lochside House, 7 Lochside Avenue, Edinburgh Park Taxation Edinburgh EH12 9DJ tel: 0870 702 0000 fax: 0870 703 6009 Risks You may check your holdings and view other information about Alliance Trust stock registered in your own name at Table of Indices www.
Key Dates Information Our website www.
com contains information about Savings Plans the Company, including daily price, net asset value and discount information.
The Corporate Governance section of the website contains the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
These are also available, on request, from the Company Secretary from whom the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are also available.
Confidentiality We are unable to prevent other parties using the Companys register for marketing or other purposes.
If you wish to limit unsolicited mail, you may contact the Mailing Preference Service at FREEPOST 22, London W16 7E2.
Information for Stockholders 53 Data Protection Risks The Company is a data controller as defined under the Data On page 3 we provide information on how we manage the risks Protection Act 1998.
Information received from or about in the portfolio.
If you hold stock in the Company, you should stockholders or investors for example from a stockbroker, take professional advice as to whether an investment in our whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or by any other stock is suitable for you.
You should be aware that: electronic or digital means of communication may be processed.
Investment should be made for the long term.
Information held on the Companys Register of Members is, by The price of stock will be affected by supply and demand for law, public information and the Company cannot prevent any it on the London Stock Exchange and may not fully person inspecting it or having copies of it, on payment of the represent the underlying value of the assets of the statutory fee.
The price generally stands below the net asset value of the Trust at a discount but it may also stand Electronic Communications above it at a premium.
Your capital return will depend upon the movement of the discount premium over the If you hold your stock in your own name we are able to send period you own the stock, as well as the capital you annual reports and notices of meetings electronically instead performance of the Companys own assets.
If you wish to register for this service please log on to www.
htm The assets owned by the Company may have exposure to currencies other than Sterling.
Changes in market Taxation movements and in rates of exchange may cause the value of your investment to go up or down.
If you are any doubt about your liability to tax arising from a stockholding in the Company, you should seek professional Past performance is not necessarily a guide to the future.
What you get back will depend on investment performance.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
Income Tax Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of the gross dividend.
Dividends are paid net of the tax credit.
Table of Indices 1 year 10 years 10 years If you hold your stock in your own name, the tax voucher which to 31 January 2004 absolute absolute compound you need for your tax records will be sent to the address we FTSE All-Share Index 27.0% 25.3% 2.3% have for you on the register maintained by Computershare.
FTSE World Index 30.1% 59.9% 4.8% If your dividends are received by a nominee, such as your MSCI World Index 29.6% 59.9% 4.8% stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the tax FTSE World ex UK 24.3% 36.5% 3.2% voucher.
Alliance Trust Savings will automatically supply you US Standard and Poors with a consolidated income tax voucher for income received for 500 Index 19.4% 93.4% 6.8% you in the Select Investment Plan.
NASDAQ Composite 56.4% 158.1% 9.9% Capital Gains Tax Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index 35.7% 129.9% 8.7% For investors who purchased their stock prior to 31 March 1982, FTSE World Europe ex UK 33.3% 64.9% 5.1% the cost of the stock for capital gains tax purposes may be based on the price of the stock on that date, being 2.85 per FTSE Asia Pacific ex Japan 29.7% 31.3% 3.7% ordinary stock unit.
Tokyo Topix Index 30.5% 45.4% 5.9% UK Investment Property Databank 4.1% 30.8% 2.7% Retail Price Index 2.6% 29.6% 2.6% Consumer Price Index 1.4% 17.8% 1.6% Source: Thomson Financial Datastream 54 Information for Stockholders Key Dates Annual General Meeting The 116th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.30am on Friday 30 April 2004 at the Invercarse Hotel, Perth Road, Dundee.
The meeting will include a presentation by the Chief Executive, Alan Harden.
The notice of the meeting is sent separately to stockholders.
Financial Calendar Date Final Dividend and AGM for the year to 31 January 2004 Ex-dividend date 14 April 2004 Annual General Meeting 30 April 2004 Final dividend payment date 10 May 2004 Interim Dividend for the year to 31 January 2005 Proposed announcement date 23 August 2004 Proposed ex-dividend date 15 September 2004 Proposed payment date 1 October 2004 Investor Events Date Location Investor Seminar Wednesday 23 and Cranfield School of Management, Thursday 24 June Cranfield, Bedfordshire Investor Seminar Wednesday 29 September The Haynes Conference Centre, Sparkford, Near Yeovil, Somerset If you would like to attend an Investor Seminar, please contact us on 01382 306006 or email contact@alliancetrusts.
Places are available on a first come first served basis.
Information about events after September 2004 will be posted on www.
com 55 Savings Plans provided by Select Investment Plan Alliance Trust Savings The Select Investment Plan is a general purpose, flexible, savings Alliance Trust Savings ATS provides and administers the vehicle with no tax advantages and, consequently, no maximum subscription restriction.
Subscriptions can be made by regular Select Range of savings plans.
direct debits to reduce investment timing risk and to benefit The main features of the plans are: from pound cost averaging.
The transaction based charging Self-select investment choice in securities listed on the structure works particularly efficiently where very large amounts London Stock Exchange, including the Alliance Trust.
are subscribed or transferred in.
Whole investment portfolios may Investment in a range of corporate bonds, gilts, open ended be transferred to ATS for long term custody and administration.
investment company funds and exchange traded funds is also available.
Cash may also be kept on deposit with ATS Investing for Children which is a bank.
Both the Select Pension and the Select Investment Plan may be No advice is given by ATS.
Customers make their own used as a means of investing for children.
The flexibility of each investment decisions within the terms of the contract with plan means that an investment may be made in the stock of the ATS full details of which are in the Key Features and Alliance Trust only, or a portfolio may be built up for a child Handbooks for each Plan, available from ATS.
chosen from the full range of investments in the Select choice.
Charges are levied by ATS on a transaction basis, not on the How to get more information value of the assets held by ATS for each customer.
Information on the Select plans may be obtained from: Select Pension Alliance Trust Savings Limited The Select Pension, which is a self-invested personal pension Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 9YP SIPP, is designed to accommodate the need of many tel: 01382 306006 fax: 01382 202250 individuals for a pension capable of travelling with them email: contact@alliancetrusts.
The SIPP structure gives each individual For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone pension member control of and direct entitlement to his or her calls may be recorded.
The flexibility of the Select Pension means that, as time passes and pension assets grow, investments can Risk Warning be changed without moving providers.
ATS is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Select PEP Authority.
Plans are provided on a direct offer transaction basis and marketed only in the United Kingdom to UK investors.
No Subscriptions cannot now be made to PEPs, but PEPs can be advice is given by ATS.
The Select PEP gives an opportunity for maximum efficiency at low cost, as PEPs with other managers Most charges are transaction based and may be high or low can be transferred in and the PEP portfolio rationalised.
Unlike depending on how you manage the investments in your plan.
many other providers, ATS has no PEP transfer-in charge The value of investments and any income from them may go dealing charges after transfer still apply.
down as well as up and you may not get back the amount you put in.
Past performance is no guide to future returns.
Taxation Select ISA levels, bases and reliefs are subject to change and may depend on individual circumstances.
The Select ISA, as well as accepting transfers, is available for subscriptions up to the annual limit 7,000 in 2003 04 and 2004 05.
Stocks and shares and cash components are available on a maxi or mini basis with the cash component also available on a TESSA-only basis.
Tax-free interest is payable in the cash component and the full Select choice of securities is available in the stocks and shares component.
As with the PEP, there is no transfer-in charge dealing charges after transfer still apply.
The information on this page is issued and approved by Alliance Trust Savings Limited, PO Box 164, Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 9YP 56 Cover photograph: a view of the City of Dundee from the southern banks of the River Tay Printed by Pillans and Waddies, Edinburgh 75417
