66 AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation and consolidation Claims provisions The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Provisions for claims outstanding comprise notified claims and claims accordance with applicable accounting standards and under the incurred but not reported IBNR.
The change in the provision for historical cost accounting rules, modified to include the revaluation claims represents the movement in the provision for claims outstanding.
of investments, in accordance with the provisions of Section 255A, The gross provision for claims outstanding is included as a liability Schedule 9A and other requirements of the Companies Act 1985. on the balance sheet.
The technical claims provision represents The Group has also adopted the recommendations of the Statement of managements estimate of the cost of settling all claims incurred Recommended Practice on Accounting for Insurance Business issued but unpaid at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not.
by the Association of British Insurers ABI SORP in 2003.
The reinsurers share of these anticipated future claims is calculated by applying the gross provisions against the Groups reinsurance protection The balance sheet of the parent company has been prepared in and is net of any provision for bad debt based on an assessment of the accordance with the provisions of Section 230 of, and Schedule 4 to, underlying security of the reinsurers on the policies.
The reinsurers the Companies Act 1985.
In accordance with the exemption permitted share of technical provisions is included as an asset on the balance under this section, the profit and loss account of the Company is not sheet.
Notified claims are estimates of future claims payments in presented as part of these accounts.
respect of reported claims based on the latest information available including advices from claims assessors and lawyers.
The IBNR element The financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company, is calculated initially by each of the Groups divisions using statistical its subsidiary undertakings, and the Groups underwriting through analysis of historical trends, balanced with interpretation of current participation on Lloyds syndicates.
The accounting information in underwriting trends and market and case loss information, in order to respect of non-aligned syndicate participations has been provided calculate the ultimate loss projection of the business on risk.
Where by the managing agents of those syndicates through an information Amlin leads business it has control over the agreement of claims and exchange facility operated by Lloyds and has been audited by the where it does not lead it relies on the lead underwriter to keep it respective syndicates auditors.
The actual information in respect of informed of the latest developments.
these non-aligned participations is included to the extent that it is available or, where this is not the case, provisions are made for the These claims provisions are reviewed to ensure judgements made are expected impact.
This review process includes comparison of technical claims provisions, on an underwriting year basis, with Syndicate participations independent actuarial projections produced on a best estimate basis by our in-house actuarial team.
The underwriting year loss ratios are then Premiums Written premiums comprise premiums on contracts incepting during the adjusted to remove assumed future major losses.
This process is repeated each quarter with the actuarial assessment reviewed at the financial year.
Premiums are disclosed gross of brokerage and exclude taxes and duties levied on them.
Estimates are included for pipeline end of the financial year by an independent external actuary.
premiums, representing amounts due to the Group but not yet notified, as well as adjustments made in the year to premiums written in prior Although the claims provision is considered to be reasonable, having regard to previous claims experience, the statistical projections and accounting periods.
case reviews of notified losses, the ultimate liabilities will vary as a result of subsequent developments and events.
These adjustments are Outward reinsurance premiums are accounted for in the same accounting period as the related direct insurance or inwards reflected in the financial statements for the period in which the related adjustments are made.
Unearned premiums Unexpired risks provision Provision is made for unexpired risks where, at the balance sheet A provision for unearned premiums represents that part of premiums written, and reinsurers share of premiums written, which is estimated date, the costs of outstanding claims and related deferred acquisition costs are expected to exceed the unearned premium provision.
The to be earned in following financial years.
It is calculated separately for each insurance contract on the 24ths or 365ths basis, where unexpired risks provision is included within technical provisions in the balance sheet.
the incidence of risk is the same throughout the contract.
Where the incidence of risk varies during the term of the contract, the provision Other accounting policies is based on the estimated risk profile of business written.
Exchange rates Acquisition costs Income and expenditure in US dollars, Euros and Canadian dollars are translated at average rates of exchange for the period.
Underwriting Acquisition costs comprise brokerage incurred on insurance contracts written during the financial year.
They are spread over an equivalent transactions denominated in other foreign currencies are included at their historical rates.
period to that which the premiums on the underlying business are earned.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the proportion of Syndicate assets and liabilities, expressed in US dollars, Euros and acquisition costs incurred in respect of unearned premiums at the balance sheet date.
Canadian dollars are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Claims paid Claims paid comprise claims and claims handling expenses paid during the financial year.
AMLIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 67 Differences arising on translation of foreign currency amounts on The goodwill on other acquisitions is capitalised and is amortised on a insurance transactions are included in the technical account.
Other straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
assets, liabilities, income and expenditure expressed in foreign currencies have been translated at the rates of exchange at the balance Other income and charges sheet date unless contracts to sell currency for sterling have been Agency fees are recognised on an accruals basis.
Profit commission entered into prior to the year end, in which case the contracted rates receivable is accrued in direct relation to underwriting income earned have been used.
Differences arising on translation of foreign currency and is subject to the normal managing agents terms.
amounts on such items are included in the non-technical account.
Tangible fixed assets Investments The cost of other fixed assets is depreciated over their expected useful Listed investments are stated at market value at the close of business lives on a straight line basis.
on the balance sheet date.
Unlisted investments are valued by the directors on a prudent basis with regard to their likely realisable value.
Depreciation rates are within the following ranges: In the Companys accounts, investments in Group undertakings are Leasehold land and buildings Over period of lease stated at cost less provisions for impairment.
Motor vehicles 2533% per annum Computer equipment 3350% per annum Syndicate investments and investment income Furniture and office equipment 2050% per annum Internal property improvements 2033% per annum Syndicate investments and cash are held on a pooled basis, the return from which is allocated to underwriting years of account proportionately to the funds contributed by the year of account.
Pensions Pension contributions to defined benefit schemes are charged to the Investment return profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the Group, based on actuarial triennial All dividends and any related tax credits are recognised as income on the date the related listed investments are marked ex-dividend.
Pension contributions to employees money purchase schemes are charged to the profit and loss account when due.
investment income, interest receivable, expenses and interest payable are recognised on an accruals basis.
Amlin contributes to a defined benefit scheme which is, for the Realised gains or losses are calculated as the difference between the purposes of both Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 and Financial Reporting Standard 17, considered to be a multi-employer net sales proceeds and their purchase price in the financial year or their valuation at the commencement of the year.
Consequently, contributions to this scheme are charged to the profit and loss account when due.
and losses are calculated as the difference between the valuation of investments at the balance sheet date and their purchase price in the financial year or valuation at the commencement of the year.
Deferred tax Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences that result Allocation of investment return in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they All of the investment return arising in the year is reported initially in the non-technical account.
A transfer is made from the non-technical crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation account to the technical account representing: computations in periods different from those in which they are included for aligned syndicate participations, the longer term investment return in financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent on investments supporting the technical provisions and related that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
The longer term investment return is an estimate Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
of the expected return over time for each relevant category of investments having regard to past performance, current trends and Leased assets future expectations: and Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase transactions are for non-aligned syndicate participations, the actual return on capitalised in the balance sheet and depreciated over their useful lives.
investments supporting the technical provisions and related The outstanding instalments are included in creditors and the interest shareholders funds.
element is charged against profits over the period of the contract.
Intangible fixed assets Payments made under operating leases are charged to the profit and The cost of syndicate participations is capitalised and amortised on loss account evenly over the period of the lease.
Where there are rent a straight line basis over its estimated useful economic life of twenty free periods in property leases, the cost of the lease is spread evenly years beginning in the underwriting year in which the purchased up to the period of the first rent review.
Goodwill arising on consolidation of acquisitions prior to 31 May 1998, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration over the fair value of the assets acquired, has been written off against reserves.
