Aviva plc 2004 Accounting policies A Basis of accounts notication and settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the particularly in respect of liability business, including environmental and special provisions relating to insurance companies of section 255A of, pollution exposures, the ultimate cost of which cannot be known with and Schedule 9A to, the Companies Act 1985 and with the Statement certainty at the balance sheet date.
Provisions for certain claims are of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers discounted using rates having regard to the returns generated by the the ABI SORP issued in November 2003.
The accounting policies assets supporting the liabilities.
Any estimate represents a determination adopted reect UK financial reporting standards and statements of within a range of possible outcomes.
Further details of estimating standard accounting practice applicable at 31 December 2004, as techniques are given in note 39a.
considered appropriate for an insurance company.
The accounts of the D Deferred acquisition costs Company have been prepared in accordance with section 226 of, and Deferred acquisition costs represent a proportion of commission and Schedule 4 to, the Companies Act 1985. other acquisition costs that relate to policies that are in force at the year In December 2004, the UK Accounting Standards Board issued FRS27 end.
Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised Life Assurance, which requires certain disclosures to be made in systematically over a period no longer than that in which they are relation to with-profit funds, capital and guarantees and options.
expected to be recoverable out of margins in revenues from the related Preparation of accounts in accordance with the standard is mandatory policies.
General business deferred acquisition costs are amortised over for accounting periods ending on or after 23 December 2005, and the the period in which the related premiums are earned.
Group will make these disclosures in its 2005 financial statements, E Unexpired risks produced under International Financial Reporting Standards.
In Provision is made for any overall excess of expected claims and deferred accordance with the Memorandum of Understanding signed by Aviva in acquisition costs over unearned premiums, after taking account of the relation to this standards application to insurers 2004 Report and investment return expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant Accounts, the required disclosures are made in the Financial review on general business provisions.
F Reinsurance The profit and loss account for the year reects all income, expenditure, The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course of and investment gains and losses, except certain items which are taken business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
Premiums on directly to reserves after tax.
The items taken directly to reserves reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue in the same manner include exchange gains and losses on the net investment in foreign as they would be if the reinsurance were considered direct business.
enterprises except for certain items dealt with in the fund for future As the volume of reinsurance assumed is not material to the Group, no appropriations.
The general business technical result is determined on separate disclosure of this business has been made in the relevant notes an annual basis.
The cost of reinsurance related to long-duration B Premiums contracts is accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured Long-term business premiums are recognised as income when policies using assumptions consistent with those used to account for receivable, except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted these policies.
Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are for when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single premium recognised in the profit and loss account immediately at the date of business, this is the date from which the policy is effective.
For regular purchase and are not amortised.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed premium contracts, receivables are taken at the date when payments are presented on a gross basis in the consolidated profit and loss are due.
Premiums are shown before deduction of commission and account and balance sheet as appropriate.
before any sales-based taxes or duties.
Where policies lapse due to Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both insurance and non-receipt of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued reinsurance companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable but not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding debited to premiums.
claims provisions or settled claims associated with the reinsured policies General business premiums written reect business incepted during the and in accordance with the relevant reinsurance contract.
year, and exclude any sales-based taxes or duties.
Unearned premiums Reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are are those proportions of the premiums written in a year that relate to accounted for directly through the balance sheet and are included in periods of risk after the balance sheet date.
Unearned premiums are reinsurance assets or liabilities.
A deposit asset or liability is recognised, computed principally on either the daily or monthly pro rata basis.
based on the consideration paid or received less any explicitly identied Premiums collected by intermediaries, but not yet received, are assessed premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
based on estimates from underwriting or past experience, and are included in premiums written.
G Investment income and unrealised investment gains or losses Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents receivable for C Claims the year, together with realised investment gains and losses.
Dividends Long-term business claims reect the cost of all claims arising during the on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the ex-dividend date.
year, including claims handling costs, as well as policyholder bonuses Interest income is recognised as it accrues, taking into account the accrued in anticipation of a bonus declaration.
effective yield on the investment.
It includes the interest rate differential General business claims incurred include all losses occurring during the on forward foreign exchange contracts.
Rental income is recognised on year, whether reported or not, related handling costs, a reduction for an accruals basis.
Realised investment gains and losses represent the the value of salvage and other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims difference between the net sales proceeds and the cost of acquisition.
Claims handling costs include internal Unrealised investment gains and losses represent the difference between and external costs incurred in connection with the negotiation and the carrying value at the year end and the carrying value at the previous settlement of claims.
Internal costs include all direct expenses of the year end or purchase value during the year.
claims department and any part of the general administrative costs The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means that, directly attributable to the claims function.
for managements decision-making and internal performance General business outstanding claims provisions are based on the management, short-term realised and unrealised investment gains and estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but not settled at the losses are treated as non-operating items.
The Group focuses instead on balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with related an operating profit measure that incorporates a longer term return on claims handling costs and a reduction for the expected value of salvage investments supporting its non-long-term business and shareholders and other recoveries.
significant delays are experienced in the funds in its long-term business.
As permitted by the ABI SORP, total 64 Aviva plc 2004 investment income, including realised and unrealised gains, is therefore Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken for deferred analysed between that calculated using a longer term return and tax assets, using the liability method, on all material timing differences, short-term uctuations from this.
Further details of this analysis and including revaluation gains and losses on investments recognised in the the assumptions used are given in note 6b.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates at which it is expected that the tax will arise and discounted to take into account Long-term business investment income and unrealised gains and losses the likely timing of payments and pattern of expected realisation of are included in the long-term business technical account and, where investments.
The discount rates used are the post-tax yields to maturity applicable, a transfer is made to the non-technical account to ensure that could be obtained at the balance sheet date on government bonds that the return remaining in the long-term technical account attributable with maturity dates and in currencies similar to those of the deferred tax to shareholders reects the longer term investment return.
Non-long-term business investment income and unrealised gains and No provision is made for tax that might arise if profits retained by losses are taken to the non-technical account.
The longer term return overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings were remitted to the on the investments owned by general business operations is then UK, unless a binding agreement exists for the relevant undertaking to transferred from the non-technical account to the general business distribute those earnings in future.
profits and losses arising on investment transactions with the long-term funds are included in realised investment gains.
K Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings is carried H Long-term business result and fund valuations on the balance sheet as a separate intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on Transfers from the long-term business technical account to the nonthe acquisition of associated undertakings is included within their technical account in respect of shareholders profits are determined as a carrying value.
All goodwill is amortised on a straight-line basis over its result of annual actuarial valuations, which are based on local practice, useful economic life, and its carrying value is reviewed regularly for subject to transfers to or from the fund for future appropriations.
On subsequent disposal of the underlying I Pension costs and other post-retirement benets investment, any goodwill not yet amortised will be taken to the profit The Group operates a number of dened benefit and dened and loss account when calculating the profit or loss on disposal.
contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are generally Goodwill arising before 1 January 1998 was eliminated against reserves held in separate trustee-administered funds.
The pension plans are and has not been reinstated.
Goodwill previously written off to reserves generally funded by payments from employees and by the relevant Group will be taken back through the profit and loss account when calculating companies, taking account of the recommendations of qualied actuaries.
the profit or loss on any disposal of the underlying investment.
For dened benefit plans, the pension costs are assessed using the L Investments projected unit credit method.
Under this method, the cost of providing Investments are stated at their current values at the end of the year, pensions is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the with the exception of certain non-linked long-term business debt regular cost over the service lives of employees, in accordance with the securities and xed income securities which are shown at amortised advice of qualied actuaries.
cost, as this basis more closely corresponds with the valuation of the For dened contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly relevant long-term liabilities.
Current values, for this purpose, are: stock or privately administered pension plans.
Once the contributions have exchange mid-market values for listed securities: average trading prices been paid, the Group, as employer, has no further payment obligations.
for unlisted securities where a market exists: and directors valuations for The Groups contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in other unlisted securities, and for mortgages and loans.
the year to which they relate and are included in staff costs.
In some All properties are valued annually by qualied external valuers or countries, the pension schemes have invested in the Groups life funds.
members of staff, at market value.
No depreciation is provided on Some Group companies provide post-retirement healthcare or other properties held for own use since such depreciation is immaterial.
No depreciation is provided on investment properties as the directors benets to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benets is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to retirement age and consider that, as these properties are held for investment, to depreciate the completion of a minimum service period.
None of these schemes is them would not give a true and fair view of the Groups financial material to the Group and contributions are charged to the profit and position or results for the financial year.
loss account in the year to which they relate.
M Derivative instruments In November 2000, the Accounting Standards Board issued Financial The Group uses derivative instruments, including forward foreign Reporting Standard FRS 17 Retirement Benets, the accounting exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, futures and options for hedging provisions of which are not required to be adopted by the Group until purposes.
Derivative instruments are accounted for as follows: 2005.
However, the FRS requires certain disclosures to be made in the Forward foreign exchange contracts.
The interest rate differential is notes to the accounts, as shown in note 45e.
included in investment income, while the effect of the currency movements on these contracts is treated as an exchange difference: J Tax The shareholder tax charge in the non-technical account is based on Cross-currency swaps related to the Groups borrowings.
These are the taxable profits for the year, after any adjustments in respect of prior translated at the year end rates and included as part of borrowings: years.
Tax, including tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over profits on ordinary activities and amounts charged or credited to Interest rate swaps.
The interest payable and receivable is included reserves as appropriate.
In the long-term business technical account, within investment expenses or investment income as appropriate: the charge is based on the method of assessing tax for long-term funds Futures contracts and purchased options.
These are included at market applicable in the relevant country of operation.
value and shown under the category of investments to which the The balance on the long-term business technical account is computed contracts relate.
No adjustment is made to the classication of existing net of the total tax attributable to that business.
In order to present the investments to reect the effect of the future settlement of these profit on long-term business operations on a pre-tax basis, this net transactions.
gure is grossed up at the long-term effective rate of tax borne by shareholders in respect of the underlying business.
This shareholder tax add-back is included in the tax charge on the profit on ordinary activities in the non-technical account.
65 Accounting policies Aviva plc 2004 Accounting policies continued N Consolidation of subsidiary undertakings on issue to the extent not yet amortised at the balance sheet date.
The results of all material subsidiary undertakings are consolidated using The difference between net proceeds and redemption value is charged audited accounts prepared to 31 December.
Subsidiary undertakings to loan interest in the profit and loss account over the period of the acquired during the year are consolidated from the date of acquisition.
borrowings, using the effective yield method.
In the Company balance sheet, subsidiary undertakings are stated at T Fund for future appropriations current value which, for this purpose, is embedded value for life In certain participating long-term business, the nature of the policy operations and net asset value for other entities.
benets is such that the division between shareholder reserves and O Participating interests, associated undertakings policyholder liabilities is uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation either to and joint ventures policyholders or shareholders has not been determined by the end of Participating interests are investments in which the Group has a the financial year are held in the fund for future appropriations.
long-term equity holding of over 20% and not more than 50%.
Transfers between this fund and the long-term business technical Where the interests are beneficial and significant inuence is exercised, account represent changes in the unallocated amounts between balance such interests are classied as associated undertakings.
The Group has sheet dates.
also invested in a number of joint ventures, where its share of the U Equalisation provision underlying assets and liabilities may be greater than 50% but where Provision is made in the Group accounts for the equalisation provisions the terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that control is not established, where required, in the accounts of individual insurance exercised.
The appropriate proportion of the profit or loss on ordinary companies in the UK and in a limited number of countries overseas.
activities before tax of joint ventures and associated undertakings is The provision is required by law even though no actual liability exists shown separately in the non-technical account, except where these at the balance sheet date.
investments are held by the long-term businesses, in which case the profit is included within investment income in the long-term business V Exchange rates technical account.
The appropriate proportion of the shareholders The results of foreign enterprises are translated into sterling at average funds of joint ventures and associated undertakings is included in the exchange rates while their assets and liabilities are translated at year end consolidated balance sheet, with gross equity method disclosures for rates.
The resulting exchange differences arising within long-term the former as required by FRS9 Associates and joint ventures.
businesses are included within the long-term business technical account and form part of the transfer to the fund for future appropriations, P Additional value of in-force long-term business while those arising within other businesses are taken directly to reserves.
The additional value of in-force long-term business arising on acquisitions is recognised in the Groups balance sheet and is amortised Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are accounted for at the through the profit and loss account over the useful lifetime of the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Foreign related contracts in the portfolio on a systematic basis.
The rate of currency assets and liabilities held at the year end are translated at year amortisation is chosen by considering the prole of the additional value end rates of exchange.
The resulting exchange gains or losses are of in-force business acquired and the expected depletion in its value.
included in the profit and loss account.
The value of acquired additional in-force long-term business is reviewed W Share-based compensation annually for any impairment in value and any reductions are charged to The Group offers share award and option plans over the Companys the long-term business technical account.
ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Save As You Earn plan The full embedded value of the long-term business and further details SAYE plan, details of which are given in the Directors remuneration of the methodology and assumptions are included as supplementary report on pages 53 to 62.
Compensation costs for non-SAYE plans are information on pages 128 to 146. based on the market price of the shares at the time of grant, less any amounts paid or payable by employees in respect of the awards.
Q Long-term business provision and technical provision These costs are charged to the profit and loss account over the periods for linked liabilities during which the share awards or options are earned.
Shares purchased The long-term business provision is calculated separately for each life by the employee share trusts to fund these awards are shown as a operation, based on local regulatory requirements and actuarial deduction from shareholders funds at their original cost.
principles consistent with those applied in the UK.
Each calculation represents a determination within a range of possible outcomes, where Until June 2003, for the SAYE plan, shares were issued to a qualifying the assumptions used in the calculations depend on the circumstances share ownership trust, with the excess of the market price subscribed at prevailing in each life operation.
Further details of the methodology and the date of transfer by the trust over the nominal value being recorded the principal assumptions used are given in note 38. in the Companys share premium account.
The difference between the market price at the date of transfer to the trust and exercise price Within the long-term business provision, explicit allowance is made for payable by employees was charged to the Companys profit and loss vested bonuses, including those added following the current valuation.
account or, in the consolidated Group accounts, directly to the profit The allowance for future bonuses depends on the methodology and and loss account reserve.
After June 2003, shares are allotted directly to is explained in note 38.
The provisions held for linked business and the employee to satisfy the obligations arising.
In accordance with unitised with-profits business are the unit liabilities together with certain Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 17 revised 2003 Employee Share non-unit provisions.
Schemes, the Company has taken advantage of the exemptions R Tangible assets contained therein in respect of such schemes and no charge is made to Computer equipment, motor vehicles and other tangible assets are the profit and loss account for the discount to market value at which capitalised at cost and depreciation is charged to the profit and loss the options are granted.
account, within expenses on a straight-line basis, over their estimated X Leases useful lives of between three and five years.
All tangible assets are tested Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of for impairment where events or changes in circumstances indicate that ownership are retained by the lessor, are classied as operating leases.
the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are Payments made as lessees under operating leases net of any incentives included within the cumulative depreciation amounts disclosed.
received from the lessor are charged to the profit and loss account on a S Subordinated debt and debenture loans straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Subordinated debt and borrowings issued at a discount are included in There are no material finance leases affecting the Group as either lessor the balance sheets at their proceeds, net of issue costs and discount or lessee.
