Investor Information Results Dividends Half year announced July Ordinary shares: Full year announced December First interim paid end May The Report and Accounts are posted to shareholders in Second interim paid end August January and the AGM is held in London in February.
Third interim paid end November Final paid end February Share Price Information The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is Debenture stock interest published in The Financial Times and other leading 4% debenture stock paid on 5 January and 5 July.
The share price and details of the Companys 10 2% debenture stock 2016 and 8% debenture stock performance can be found on the following websites: 2023 paid on 30 April and 31 October.
com Investing in Bankers www.
co. uk Ordinary shares of Bankers may be bought or sold The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL directly through a stockbroker, accountant, other code is 0076700. independent financial adviser or through a number of banks or building societies who are also providing this The Financial Times also provides on a daily basis an service.
Alternatively, shares may be bought directly estimate of the net asset value and of the through the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan and discount premium.
a Henderson ISA, and can be held in a Henderson Transfer PEP.
History The Company was incorporated in 1888.
Since seven of Disability the nine original directors were bankers by profession, Copies of this Report and Accounts or other documents the name The Bankers Investment Trust, Limited was issued by the Company are available from the Company considered appropriate.
The Company has paid dividends Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a on the equity capital every year since incorporation variety of formats, either Braille or on audio tape or larger except in the years 1892 and 1893. type as appropriate.
Nominee Code You can contact our registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars The Bankers Investment Trust PLC undertakes to Scotland, who have installed textphones to allow speech provide copies of shareholder communications to and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone nominee operators who have indicated in advance a to contact them directly by ringing 0870 600 3950 wish to receive them, for the purpose of distribution to without the need for an intermediate operator.
trained operators are available during normal business Nominee operators are encouraged to advise hours to answer queries via this service.
investors that they are able to attend meetings and to Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Investors in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Deaf People you should dial 18001 followed by the Plan, the Henderson Selection ISA and the number you wish to dial.
Henderson Selection Transfer PEP receive all shareholder communications, an invitation to the AGM For investors through the Henderson Investment Trust Share and a Letter of Instruction to facilitate voting.
Plan, Henderson ISA or Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA a textphone telephone service is available on 020 7850 5406.
Capital Gains Tax This service is available during normal business hours.
The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on personal circumstances.
If you are in any doubt about your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact your professional adviser.
47 Investor Information Directors Registrars Andrew C Barker Chairman Lloyds TSB Registrars, Richard D Brewster Deputy Chairman The Causeway, Richard W Killingbeck Worthing, James Morley West Sussex BN99 6DA Michael B Moule Telephone: 0870 601 5366 Francis I Sumner There is now a range of shareholder information on line.
David G Thomas You can check your holding and find practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at Audit Committee www.
co. uk Richard D Brewster Chairman James Morley New Zealand Registrars Francis I Sumner Computershare Investor Services Limited, David G Thomas Private Bag 92119, Management Engagement Committee Auckland 1020, Andrew C Barker Chairman New Zealand Richard D Brewster Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Richard W Killingbeck James Morley New Zealand Stockbrokers Francis I Sumner First NZ Capital Securities, David G Thomas Level 20, ANZ Centre, Nomination Committee 23-29 Albert Street, Andrew C Barker Chairman PO Box 5333, Richard D Brewster Auckland, Francis I Sumner New Zealand Charities Committee Solicitors Richard D Brewster Chairman Norton Rose, Francis I Sumner Kempson House, PO Box 570, Investment Manager Camomile Street, Henderson Global Investors Limited is London EC3A 7AN authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and is represented by Alex Crooke Bankers Bank of New York Europe Limited, Secretary 67 Lombard Street, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited London EC3P 3DL represented by Wendy King FCIS JP Morgan Chase & Co, Registered Number 60 Victoria Embankment, Registered in England No.
26351C London EC4Y 0JP Stockbrokers Registered Office Cazenove, 4 Broadgate, 20 Moorgate, London EC2M 2DA London EC2R 6DA Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Fax: 020 7818 1819 Auditors  LLP, Southwark Towers, 32 London Bridge Street, The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Trust Companies London SE1 9SY 48 Ways & means.
There are various ways of investing in The Bankers Investment Trust PLC you can act quickly with a lump The trusts shares are easily traded on the stock market.
sum, invest gradually with But there are also benefits in income reinvestment, monthly payments or enjoy regular saving and tax-efficient wrappers.
Here are some options to suit your own personal pace of investing.
The Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan is a straightforward savings scheme with a minimum lump sum investment of 500 or regular savings from 50 a month.
A Henderson ISA allows you to save tax-efficiently up to 7,000 p. a. with a minimum lump sum of 2,000 and regular savings from 100 a month.
A Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA allows you to transfer your existing PEP or ISA funds into the trust.
Investments retain their tax-efficient status during and after transfer.
To find out more, visit www.
com or call our Investor Services Department free on 0800 832 832 Please quote reference REPORT.
You can also write to us at Henderson Global Investors, FREEPOST, Newbury RG14 2ZZ no stamp required or contact your professional adviser.
Henderson Investment Trusts Please remember that past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The value of your investment can fall as well as rise and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend on individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Printed by Perivan Group Limited, London HGI9201 2001 Henderson Fund Management plc, Henderson Investment Management Limited and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the FSA provide investment products and services.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Printed by CTD Printers Ltd, London HGI9201 2004
