Report of the Directors continued behalf of participants in the Henderson Investment Trust terms for all business.
In general, the Company agrees Share Plan, Henderson PEPs and ISAs.
with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is our policy to abide by these terms.
There New Zealand Listing were no trade creditors at 31 October 2004.
The Company has a listing for its ordinary shares on the New Zealand Stock Exchange and shareholders in New Going Concern Zealand receive dividends in New Zealand dollars.
A The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to branch register has been established and New Zealand adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts shareholders may transfer their shares to the Auckland as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities register by contacting the New Zealand Registrars at the which are readily realisable and, accordingly, it has address given on page 48.
First NZ Capital Securities are adequate financial resources to continue in operational the Companys corporate broker in New Zealand.
existence for the foreseeable future.
ISAs PEPs Registered Auditors The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue to  LLP have indicated their conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, a resolution Individual Savings Account and Personal Equity Plan to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to Regulations.
the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
Donations By order of the Board During the financial year the Company contributed 6,500 to charities 2003: 5,000.
No political Wendy King FCIS donations were made.
For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Payment of Suppliers Secretary It is the Companys continuing payment policy for the 7 January 2005 financial year to 31 October 2005 to obtain the best Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts Company law requires the directors to prepare accountsprepare the accounts on the going concern basis for each financial year which give a true and fair view of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and will continue in business.
of the revenue of the Group for that period.
In preparing The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper those accounts, the directors are required to: accounting records are kept which disclose with select suitable accounting policies and then apply reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of them consistently: the Company and of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Actmake judgements and estimates that are reasonable 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the and prudent: assets of the Company and of the Group and hence for state whether applicable accounting standards have taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection been followed, subject to any material departures of fraud and other irregularities.
disclosed and explained in the accounts: and 20
