com St. Helier Singapore 049 481 Nick Mbuvi Country Managing Director Jersey Tel: 65 6 395 3000 Barclays Bank plc, United Arab Emirates JE4 8PU Quek Suan Kiat Chief Operating Officer and PO Box 1891 Tel: 44 0 1534 873741 Country Manager Emaar Business Park Leslie W Cunliffe Managing Director Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Capital, Sheikh Zayed Road Barclays Bank of Kenya Limited, Kenya South Africa Dubai PO Box 30120 8 Rivonia Road UAE Nairobi Illovo 2196 Tel: 971 0 4362 6888 Kenya Johannesburg Mark Petchell Group Country Manager Email: barclays.
As a result, section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, with respect to the Groups actual future results and developments may differ materially from certain of the Groups plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its the plans, goals, and expectations expressed or implied in the Groups forwardfuture financial condition and performance.
The Group may also make forwardlooking statements.
For a more detailed discussion of some of the factors that looking statements in other written materials, including other documents filed may cause actual future results and developments to differ materially from with or furnished to the SEC.
In addition, the Groups senior management may forward-looking statements, see Risk factors on page 42.
Any forward-looking make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, representatives of statements made by or on behalf of the Group speak only as of the date they are the media and others.
In particular, among other statements, certain statements made.
Barclays does not undertake to update forward-looking statements to in the Financial Review and Business Description with regard to management reflect any changes in the Groups expectations with regard thereto or any objectives, trends in results of operations, margins, costs, return on equity, risk changes in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is management, and competition are forward-looking in nature.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures Barclays statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical has made or may make in documents it has filed or may file with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, or other words of This document contains information, including statistical data, about certain of similar meaning.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and Barclays markets and its competitive position.
Except as otherwise indicated, this uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances, including, information is taken or derived from Datastream and other external sources.
but not limited to, UK domestic and global economic and business conditions, Barclays cannot guarantee the accuracy of information taken from external market related risks such as changes in interest rates and exchange rates, the sources, or that, in respect of internal estimates, a third party using different policies and actions of governmental and regulatory authorities, changes in methods would obtain the same estimates as Barclays.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 The paper used throughout this report is produced from Totally Chlorine Free TCF pulps.
The wood for these is sourced from fully Registered office: sustainable forests in Finland, Sweden, Portugal, Spain and Brazil.
54 Lombard Street, London EC3P 3AH Additionally, the manufacturing mill is certified to ISO 9002 Quality Please note with effect from 31st May 2005 Assurance standard, the ISO 14001 Environmental Management our Registered office will move to: standard, and registered with EMAS the ECO-Management and 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP.
