British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Fifteenth Annual General Meeting of British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. will be held at Grocers Hall, Princes Street, London EC2R 8AD at 12 noon on Thursday 16 December 2004 to consider the following business: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2004 together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors.
To approve a final Ordinary Dividend of 1.30 pence per Ordinary Share.
To elect Mr John May, who was appointed subsequent to the last Annual General Meeting, as a Director.
To re-elect Mr Iain Robertson, a Director retiring by rotation under the Articles of Association.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditors and, authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
To receive the Directors Remuneration Report.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: 7.
THAT, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 Act to allot relevant securities as defined in the said Section 80 of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,400,000 provided that the authority hereby granted shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2005 or, 15 March 2006 unless otherwise renewed, varied or revoked.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as Special Resolutions: 8.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised and empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in Section 80 of the Act pursuant to Section 95 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this authority and power shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 March 2006 and shall be limited to: i the allotment of any such securities having an aggregate nominal value not exceeding 800,400 being approximately 5 per cent of the equity share capital currently in issue: and ii the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than net asset value per share on the day preceding allotment or, if earlier, the agreement to allot, save that the authority and power hereby granted shall enable the Company to make offers or agreements which would or might require any such securities to be allotted after the expiry of such period and the Directors may allot such securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority hereby granted had not expired.
THAT the Company be and is hereby authorised in accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the said Act of the Ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company Shares provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 23,996,005. ii the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 0.10: iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be 5 per cent above the average of the mid market values of the Shares on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the 5 business days immediately preceding the day of purchase: and iv unless otherwise varied or reviewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 15 March 2006 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into contract s to purchase shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry and the Company may purchase such shares as if the authority hereby granted had not expired.
By Order of the Board For and on behalf of Phoenix Administration Services Limited Secretary 77a High Street Registered Office: Brentwood Bennet House Essex CM14 4RR 54 St. Jamess Street 17 November 2004 London Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him her.
A proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use in connection with the business set out above.
This form of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power of attorney, to reach the Registrars at the address printed on the form of proxy not later than 12 noon on 14 December 2004.
The lodgement of a proxy form shall not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
The register of Directors interests in the Ordinary Shares of the Company will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours Saturdays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at Grocers Hall for fifteen minutes prior to and during the Meeting.
There are no service contracts between any of the Directors and the Company.
53 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Company Information Directors Corporate Broker Iain Robertson CBE Chairman Dresdner Kleinwort Wassertstein Peter Allen 20 Fenchurch Street Rosamund Blomfield-Smith London EC3P 3DB Strone Macpherson John May Secretary John Walton Phoenix Administration Services Limited Registered Office 77a High Street Bennet House Brentwood 54 St Jamess Street Essex CM14 4RR London SW1A 1JT Auditors Investment Manager Ernst & Young LLP Asset Value Investors Limited 1 More London Place Bennet House London SE1 2AF 54 St Jamess Street London SW1A 1JT Bankers and Custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank Registrars and Transfer Office 125 London Wall Lloyds TSB Registrars Limited London EC2Y 5AJ Finance House Orchard Brae Solicitors Edinburgh EH3 5DE Herbert Smith Exchange Square For further information Registrars Shareholder Helpline Primrose Street contact Customer Services Tel.
0870 6015366 London EC2A 2HS on 0870 600 9966 Registrars Broker Helpline Tel.
0906 5596025 54 Designed by Alembic Design Consultants Printed by Pillans & Waddies, Edinburgh, 76869 Annual Report & Accounts 2004 British Empire Securities and General Trust p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2004
