Caledonia Investments plc 75 Annual report 2004 Notice of the annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-fifth annual general meeting of Caledonia Investments plc will be held at the Crowne Plaza London-St James Hotel, 45-51 Buckingham Gate, London SW1E 6AF, on Wednesday, 14 July 2004 at 11:30 am for the purpose of considering and, if thought fit, passing the following resolutions which, in the case of resolution 10, will be proposed as a special resolution, and, in the case of all the other resolutions, will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1.
To receive and adopt the directors report and the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004, together with the auditors report to the members.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2004.
To declare a final dividend of 18.6 pence per ordinary share.
To re-elect Mr C M Allen-Jones as a director.
To re-elect The Hon C W Cayzer as a director.
To re-elect Mr T C W Ingram as a director.
To re-elect Mr J R H Loudon as a director.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and authorise the directors to agree their remuneration.
That the authority conferred on the directors by article 6.1 of the companys articles of association be renewed for a period expiring at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company after the date on which this resolution is passed and for that period the section 80 amount shall be 1,210,224.
That the power conferred on the directors by article 6.2 of the companys articles of association be renewed for a period expiring at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the company after the date on which this resolution is passed and for that period the section 89 amount is 181,533.
By order of the board G P Denison Secretary 19 May 2004 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
To be valid, forms of proxy must be lodged with the company or its registrars, together with any power of attorney under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy thereof, not less than 48 hours before the meeting.
A form of proxy accompanies this document.
Completion of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the company specifies that only those ordinary shareholders entered in the register of members of the company as at 6.00 pm on 12 July 2004 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting s, shall be entitled to attend and or vote in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes to the entries on the register of members after 6.00 pm on 12 July 2004 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting s, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting s, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the articles of association of the company or other instrument to the contrary.
Biographical details of the directors standing for re-election at the meeting are set out on pages 28 and 29.
