Caledonia Investments plc 53 Annual report 2004 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Investment trust companies generally report under the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies IT SORP, dated January 2003 and published by the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
The IT SORP assumes, however, that an investment trust is also an investment company and can take advantage of the special provisions given to investment companies under company law and accounting standards.
Caledonia is not an investment company and, in these circumstances, the IT SORP states that an investment trust company should prepare its financial statements in accordance with the normal rules contained in Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985 and accounting standards.
Caledonia recognises, however, that presenting information that is comparable with other investment trusts is important to investors.
It therefore augments its financial statements with the information and disclosures required by the IT SORP in respect of the performance of the holding company.
This is because the holding company balance sheet unlike that of the group can reflect full net asset value, and the movement in this figure is a key measure of Caledonias performance.
A statement of total return on an IT SORP basis is also presented to explain this movement.
The company converted to an investment trust company on 1 April 2003.
The comparative figures in the companys statement of total return have been prepared on a pro forma basis to reflect the estimated results of the company had it been an investment trust company throughout the previous year.
These are derived from a combination of the company profit and loss account and the company statement of total recognised gains and losses, adjusted to reflect the estimated position if the company had been an investment trust company throughout the previous year.
In particular, investments that were held by subsidiary undertakings for most of the year and transferred to the company before the year end or would have been so transferred if they had not been realised during the year are imputed to the company for the whole of the previous year or up to the date of sale.
Therefore, any investment income arising from those investments and movements in valuation have been imputed to the company.
Likewise, any costs incurred by subsidiary investment holding companies, which were no longer operating as such at the previous year end, have been imputed to the company.
The effect of the reorganisation carried out during the previous year in order to enable the company to achieve investment trust status has been eliminated, except for the net costs associated with undertaking the reorganisation.
On its conversion to an investment trust company on 1 April 2003, the company reviewed the treatment of investments over which it had significant influence or joint control.
Only those entities through which the group carried out its own business were regarded as associated undertakings or joint ventures.
Where investments were held as part of a portfolio, the value of which was through their marketable value as part of a basket of investments, they were not regarded as associated undertakings or joint ventures, but were stated in accordance with all other investments at valuation.
On 1 April 2003, therefore, former associated undertakings that were no longer regarded as associated undertakings were transferred to other investments, based on the share of net assets retained, including any related goodwill, and revalued to market value at that date.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements consolidate the results of the company and all of its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 March each year.
The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold during the year are included in the financial statements from the date of acquisition or to the date of sale.
As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the company has not been included in these financial statements.
In the company financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in accordance with the valuation of investments and income policies outlined below.
Subsidiary undertakings include equity and loan interest elements.
Joint ventures and associated undertakings Entities through which the group carries out its own business, in which the holdings are intended to be held for the long term and over whose operating and financial policies it exerts significant influence, are treated as joint ventures or associated undertakings and accounted for using the gross equity method or equity method as appropriate.
Investments in which the group has a long term interest and over whose operating and financial policies it exerts significant influence, but which are held as part of an investment portfolio, the value of which is through their marketable value as part of a basket of investments, are not regarded as joint ventures or associated undertakings.
The directors believe that equity accounting for such investments, that may come within the Companies Act definition of associated undertakings, would not give a true and fair view of the income from investment activities of the group, since this is better measured by the inclusion of dividends and interest income.
It is impracticable to quantify the effects of this departure.
The treatment adopted is in accordance with FRS 9: Associates and Joint Ventures.
Caledonia Investments plc 54 Annual report 2004 Accounting policies continued Valuation of investments Investments are included according to the following guidelines, which have been drawn up having regard to the British Venture Capital Association BVCA guidelines.
Quoted investments, for which an active market exists, are valued at mid-market price.
Unquoted equity investments are valued by the directors on a number of bases depending on the nature of each investment.
Early-stage investments will generally be valued at cost, less a provision if performance is substantially below expectations, for one year or until the investment starts to earn significant maintainable profits.
Investments earning significant maintainable profits are generally valued using an earnings multiple, based on current year profit after tax and an earnings multiple for a comparable quoted company or sector average.
A discount will be applied to recognise the absence of a ready market on which the holding can be sold.
The liquidity discount will normally be 30%, but may be reduced to 10% if an initial public offering or realisation is imminent.
For some asset-backed businesses, such as where there is a significant property element, the earnings multiple method of valuation is inappropriate, and a net realisable asset basis is applied.
It may also be appropriate to use the net realisable asset basis of valuation if this results in a higher valuation than the earnings method, or the company is incurring losses.
A third party valuation, such as an independent valuation report or a material arms length transaction, will provide prima facie evidence of fair value and will usually take precedence over other methods.
Unquoted fixed income shares and loan investments are valued at the lower of cost or recoverable amount.
Investments in unquoted funds are valued at the net asset value of the fund, with an appropriate adjustment where the net asset value has not been calculated in accordance with BVCA guidelines.
Realised surpluses or deficits on the disposal of investments are taken to the realised capital reserve of the company, and unrealised surpluses and deficits on the revaluation of investments are taken to the unrealised capital reserve as explained further below.
Income Dividends receivable from equity shares are brought into account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the companys right to receive payment is established.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the shares and debt securities.
Other returns are recognised when the right to the return is established.
Expenses Expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged to the revenue account except that expenses which are incidental to the acquisition or disposal of an investment are included within the cost of the investment or deducted from the disposal proceeds of the investment.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for accounting and taxation purposes.
Any charge for taxation on the disposal of investments is dealt with in the capital reserve.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
In particular, FRS 19 does not allow deferred tax to be provided in respect of investment revaluations.
Foreign currency In the company financial statements, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as at the date of the transaction or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the year end or, where appropriate, at the rate of exchange in a related forward exchange contact.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in capital reserve or in the revenue account depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature respectively.
In the consolidated financial statements, assets, liabilities and results of subsidiaries accounting in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The exchange differences arising on retranslating opening net assets are taken directly to reserves.
All other translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account, with the exception of differences on the revaluation of fixed asset investments denominated in foreign currencies, which are taken directly to reserves.
Caledonia Investments plc 55 Annual report 2004 Capital reserves The following are accounted for in the realised capital reserve of the company: gains and losses on the realisation of investments realised exchange differences of a capital nature expenses and finance costs, together with the related taxation effect, charged to this reserve in accordance with the above policies realised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature.
The following are accounted for in the unrealised capital reserve of the company: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and written back through the profit and loss account in the period in which the non-monetary assets acquired are recovered.
Up to 31 March 1998, depending on the circumstances of each acquisition, goodwill arising on acquisitions was either set off directly against reserves or amortised through the profit and loss account over the directors estimate of its useful life.
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves was not reinstated on implementation of FRS 10.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, other than freehold land and assets in the course of construction, at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows: Freehold and leasehold properties 50 years or the period of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 5 to 25 years Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis and includes production overheads as appropriate.
Net realisable value is the estimated price at which stocks could be sold in the normal course of business, after allowing for all further costs of completion and sale.
Payments received on account are deducted from work in progress.
Where such receipts exceed the valuation, the excess is taken to creditors.
Leases Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the terms of the leases.
Pensions The group principally operates defined benefits pension schemes in the UK and USA.
Contributions to the schemes are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the working lives of the employees within the schemes.
In addition, contributions are made to grouped personal pension plans and other arrangements, which are charged to the profit and loss account when payable.
The transition rules of FRS 17 have been applied in drawing up these financial statements.
Long term contracts Profit on long term contracts is taken as the work is carried out if the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
The profit is calculated on a prudent basis to reflect the proportion of the work completed at the year end and full provision is made for all foreseeable losses.
Turnover Turnover represents the amounts derived from the provision of goods and services which fall within the groups ordinary activities, stated net of value added tax.
