Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Candover Investments plc the Company will be held at The Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London EC4M 7DD on Tuesday 10th May, 2005 at 12 noon for the following purposes: 1 To receive the audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December, 2004, together with the reports of the directors and the auditors therein.
2 To declare a final dividend of 29p per share on the ordinary shares in respect of the year ended 31st December, 2004.
3 To elect Mr C Russell as a director of the Company.
Mr Russells biography appears on page 21.
4 To re-elect Mr S W Curran, who retires by rotation.
5 To re-elect Mr A P Hichens, who retires by rotation.
6 To re-elect Mr J G West, who retires by rotation.
7 To re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP, Chartered Accountants, as auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which number 8 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and number 9 will be proposed as a special resolution: 8 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31st December, 2004.
9 That the Company be and is hereby authorised, generally and without conditions, for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of its own shares, on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine, and where such shares are held as treasury shares, the Company may use them for the purpose of its employee share schemes provided that: a the Company may not buy more than 3,276,306 shares, equal to 14.99 per cent of the shares issued at the date of the 2004 report and accounts: b the minimum price that the Company may pay for each share is 25p: c the maximum price excluding expenses that the Company may pay for each share is 5 per cent over the average of the mid-market price of the shares, based on the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days immediately before the day on which the Company buys the shares: d this authority will last from the date of this Annual General Meeting until the next Annual General Meeting or until 10th August, 2006 if the next Annual General Meeting has not been held by then : and e the Company may agree, before the authority ends, to buy shares even though the purchase is, or may be, completed after the authority ends.
By order of the board A C Peel Company Secretary 23rd March, 2005 Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies who need not be a member of the Company to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4BR: or in the case of CREST members or CREST Personal Members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below.
In each case they must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time of the Annual General Meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
2 Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company 48 hours prior to the commencement of the Annual General Meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Changes to entries in the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
3 The register of directors interests in the share capital of the Company is available for inspection at the registered office during business hours on any weekday excluding public holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the venue of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45 am on 10th May, 2005 until the conclusion of the meeting.
