Accounting policies The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounted for under the method of full consolidation, since in the applicable accounting standards except for the policies relating to opinion of the directors, it would be misleading to do so and the accounting for managed funds as described below.
The financial overriding duty to give shareholders a true and fair view of the statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except income and state of affairs of the Group requires its exclusion.
Details that investments are stated at valuation.
The principal accounting of these managed funds are set out in note 10 on pages 47 and 48. policies of the Group, which have remained unchanged from the previous year, are set out below: Income Income arises from investment management and other financial Investment Trust SORP services provided and investment transactions undertaken during The Company has complied with the recommendations of the the year.
It also includes income from investments, and interest Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements receivable, which is accounted for on an accruals basis.
A provision of Investment Trust Companies, issued in January 2003. will be made against this income where there is uncertainty as to its future recoverability.
Management expenses Management expenses have been allocated 80 per cent to capital Placement fees and 20 per cent to revenue.
Prepaid placement fees incurred in the establishment of managed funds are carried as current assets recoverable from future Basis of consolidation management fees receivable and are written off over five years The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company from the commencement date of the fund to which the placement and of its subsidiary undertakings see note 10 on page 47.
financial statements of each undertaking in the Group have been prepared to 31st December, 2004.
The results of subsidiary Depreciation undertakings have been included from the date of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less residual value of all tangible fixed assets by equal annual instalments Associated undertakings over their expected useful lives.
The periods generally applicable An associated undertaking is defined as an entity, not being a are: plant and equipment two to five years and motor vehicles three subsidiary undertaking, in which the Group has a substantial and years.
Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the duration long-term interest and over whose financial and operating policy of the lease.
decisions the Group exercises significant influence.
Where such entities are an integral part of the Groups investment management Investments operations, the Groups share of profits is included in the Group Fixed asset investments are valued in compliance with the revised revenue account, and the investment is carried in the Group balance British Venture Capital Association Valuation Guidelines, the sheet at an amount equivalent to the Groups share of net assets.
principles of which are set out on page 19.
The Company balance sheet shows the investment in such undertakings at cost, and particulars of entities accounted for as Gains and losses on realisation of fixed asset investments are dealt associated undertakings are set out in note 11 on page 48. with through the realised capital reserve.
Fixed asset investments are not held for immediate resale and any gains on realisations are not The Group has certain other investments in companies which fall available for distribution as a dividend.
The difference between the within the definition of associated undertakings contained in the market value of fixed asset investments and cost to the Group is Companies Act 1985 as amended but which are not accounted for shown as an unrealised gain or loss.
as associated undertakings, and accordingly, the Group does not equity account its share of the net assets and results of such Investments held as current assets are held at market value to the investments, as they are held for capital appreciation.
Gains and losses on realisations of the Groups share of an investee companys undistributed profits, current asset investments held by subsidiary undertakings are dealt when those profits cannot be realised as income unless distributed, with through the revenue reserve.
Gains and losses on realisations has not been included in the consolidated revenue reserves.
of current asset investments held by the Company are dealt with through the realised capital reserve.
Shares in subsidiary Managed funds undertakings other than managed funds are held at cost.
Where the constitution of a managed fund involves it being a subsidiary undertaking under the Companies Act 1985 as Deferred tax amended but the Group has no substantial beneficial interest Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences where the in the income, assets or liabilities, the total net assets of the transactions or events that give the Group an obligation to pay managed fund are consolidated within fixed asset investments more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have and the third party interests deducted immediately thereafter.
occurred by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are The income is consolidated gross in the Group revenue and the recognised when it is more likely than not that they will be third party interests deducted immediately thereafter in accordance recovered.
Deferred tax is measured using rates of tax that have with Regulation 7 of the Partnerships and Unlimited Companies been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The managed funds have not been Candover Report and accounts 2004 35 Accounting policies continued Due to the Companys status as an investment trust, and the intention to continue meeting the conditions required to obtain approval in the foreseeable future, the Company has not provided for deferred tax on any capital gains and losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
Foreign currencies Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Balance sheets and profit and loss accounts of overseas companies are also translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Where exchange differences result from the translation into sterling of foreign currency resources to be used for further investment, they are taken to the realised and unrealised capital reserves as appropriate.
All other exchange differences are dealt with through the revenue reserve.
Pension costs The Group contributes towards a number of funded defined contribution pension and funded unapproved retirement benefit schemes designed to provide retirement benefits for its directors and employees.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from the Group in independently administered funds.
The pension cost charge represents contributions payable by the Group to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
Operating leases Payments made under operating leases are charged to the revenue account on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
