Form of proxy For use at the Annual General Meeting of Candover Investments plc to be held on Tuesday 10th May, 2005.
If you wish to vote at the Annual General Meeting but are unable to attend in person you may appoint a proxy or proxies to act on your behalf either by completing this form or, in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
I We of being a member s of Candover Investments plc, hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or see note 2 as my our proxy to vote for me us on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting to be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 10th May, 2005 and at any adjournment thereof.
I We direct my our proxy to vote on the resolutions as set out in the notice convening the Meeting as indicated with an X in the appropriate space below.
Ordinary resolutions For Against Vote withheld Resolution 1 To receive the audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December, 2004 and the reports by the directors and the auditors therein Resolution 2 To declare a final dividend of 29p per ordinary share for the year ended 31st December, 2004 Resolution 3 To elect Mr C Russell Resolution 4 To re-elect Mr S W Curran Resolution 5 To re-elect Mr A P Hichens Resolution 6 To re-elect Mr J G West Resolution 7 To reappoint the auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration Resolution 8 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31st December, 2004 Special resolution For Against Vote withheld Resolution 9 To grant the Company the power pursuant to section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 to make certain market purchases of its own equity securities Member of the remuneration committee Member of the audit committee Member of the nominations committee Date Signature see notes 3 & 4 Notes 1 If no indication is given, the proxy holder will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
2 A member may appoint a proxy or proxies other than the Chairman of the Annual General Meeting by inserting the name and address of such proxy who need not be a member in the space provided above.
The appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person should he she subsequently decide to do so.
3 In the case of joint holders, the signature of any one holder will be sufficient but, if more than one votes, the vote of the first named on the register of members will be accepted to the exclusion of other joint holders.
4 In the case of a corporation, the proxy should be executed under its common seal, or signed as a deed, or under the hand of an officer, duly authorised in writing.
5 Unless instructed otherwise, the proxy may also vote or withhold from voting as he or she sees fit on any business that may properly come before the Annual General Meeting including amendments to resolutions.
6 The vote withheld option is provided to enable you to instruct your proxy not to vote on any particular resolution, however, it should be noted that a vote withheld in this way is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
This form, to be valid, must be lodged at the office of the registrars of the Company, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4BR not less than 48 hours before the time of the Annual General Meeting.
Only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company 48 hours prior to the commencement of the Annual General Meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the right of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Candover Report and accounts 2004 59 First fold Second fold BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
MB122 Capita Registrars Proxy Department PO Box 25 Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR Third fold and tuck inside Designed and produced by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
