Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 77 Explanation of Resolutions Resolution 1 The directors must present to shareholders the Report of the Directors, the financial statements of the company and the auditors report for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Resolution 2 A final dividend of 9.45p per share is proposed and, if approved, will be paid on 10 May 2005 to shareholders on the register on 1 April 2005.
Resolutions 3 a b c d e Mr F Dee, having been appointed as a director by the directors since the 2004 annual general meeting, is required to be re-appointed at this annual general meeting.
Mr Dees experience of the retail sector has added a new dimension to Board proceedings and the directors recommend shareholders to re-appoint him as a director.
At each annual general meeting one third of the directors or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number nearest to but not less than one third, are required to retire from ofce.
Directors due to retire by rotation are those who have been longest in ofce since they were last elected and so that as between persons who were last elected on the same day those due to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be determined by lot.
Mr D A Haxby, Mr S P Mahon and Mr I S Cummine retire by rotation and are offering themselves for re-election.
In relation to the re-election of Mr D A Haxby, the Chairman confirms, in accordance with provision A.
7.2 of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance, that, following a formal performance evaluation, his performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate his commitment to the role, including the commitment of his time for Board and Committee meetings and his other duties.
Mr B Cottingham, non-executive Chairman, will have served as a director for 10 years on 11 May 2005.
7.2 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which requires a non-executive director, who has served for more than nine years to be subject to annual re-election, does not apply to the Chairman who satisfied the test of independence on his appointment.
Notwithstanding this, Mr Cottingham and the Board have concluded that it would be good corporate governance practice in these circumstances for the Chairman to retire and offer himself for re-election each year.
The Board has no hesitation in recommending to shareholders the re-election of Mr Cottingham as a director as they greatly value his wide business experience and his continuing contribution to the leadership and effectiveness of the Board.
Resolution 4 The auditors of the company must be re-appointed at each meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 4 proposes the re-appointment of  LLP.
Resolution 5 This gives the directors authority to agree the remuneration to be paid to the auditors.
Resolution 6 Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the directors of the company are obliged to present to shareholders a report on directors remuneration for the financial year ended 31 December 2004.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 31 to 41 of this document.
Resolution 7 This resolution grants the directors authority to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,957,286 being one third of the companys issued share capital as at 18 March 2005.
It is not the directors current intention to allot relevant securities pursuant to this resolution.
This authority replaces the existing authority to allot relevant securities but does not affect the ability to allot shares under the companys employee share schemes.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2006 annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of the resolution, if earlier.
Resolution 8 This is a special resolution whereby the directors seek power to allot shares for cash otherwise than in accordance with the pre-emption rights set out in section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 in connection with a rights issue of up to the number of shares which the directors are authorised to allot pursuant to resolution 7 or otherwise up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,643,592, being 5 per cent of the companys issued share capital as at 18 March 2005.
This power will expire at the conclusion of the 2006 annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of the resolution, if earlier.
78 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 Explanation of Resolutions Resolution 9 This is a special resolution authorising the company to make market purchases of up to 32,871,858 of its ordinary shares, being 10 per cent of its issued share capital as at 18 March 2005.
The maximum price payable for a share shall not be more than 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations of such shares for the five business days before such purchases.
The minimum price payable for a share will be 10p.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2006 annual general meeting or 15 months after the passing of the resolution, if earlier.
The directors have no present intention of making market purchases of ordinary shares pursuant to this authority.
The directors would only purchase ordinary shares pursuant to this authority if to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
As at 18 March 2005 there were outstanding options to subscribe for 2,029,760 ordinary shares, which represented 0.62 per cent of the issued share capital of the company as at that date and would represent 0.69 per cent of the issued share capital of the company if the authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares conferred by resolution 9 was used in full.
Normally, any share purchased under this authority will be cancelled.
However, the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 allow companies to hold shares in treasury, as an alternative to cancelling them, following a purchase of own shares by the company in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Shares held in treasury may subsequently be cancelled, sold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under an employee share scheme.
If any shares held in treasury are used to satisfy options and awards under an employee share scheme, any such options and awards will be granted or made in accordance with relevant institutional shareholder guidelines.
Once held in treasury, the company is not entitled to exercise any rights, including the right to attend and vote at meetings in respect of the shares.
Further, no dividend or other distribution of the companys assets may be made to the company in respect of the treasury shares.
Resolution 10 This resolution increases the limit on the aggregate fees payable to the non-executive directors in any one year from 250,000 to 500,000.
The increase is necessary to reect the appointment of an additional non-executive director in 2004, the proposed appointment of a further non-executive director in 2005 in accordance with the requirements of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the growth in time commitment and responsibilities for non-executive directors.
Resolution 11 Since the companys present articles of association were adopted on 14 May 1992 there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes.
The Companies Act 1985 Electronic Communications Order 2000, brought forward under section 8 of the Electronic Communications Act 2000, came into force on 22 December 2000.
The Order allows companies with individual shareholders consent to communicate with shareholders electronically.
The Order enables companies to issue annual reports and accounts, notices of general meetings, summary financial statements, and other Companies Act 1985 documents and to receive appointments of proxy electronically.
The Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority have since been amended to reect the change introduced by the Order.
The Uncerticated Securities Regulations 1995 now replaced by the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001 introduced a paperless method of transferring shares through the use of the CREST system.
The system transfers uncerticated shares instead of paper-based certicated shares.
The Board has decided, subject to shareholder approval, to amend the articles to update the articles in line with, amongst other things, the provisions of this Order and these Regulations.
Further changes are proposed to bring the articles into line with the current Listing Rules and current companies legislation applicable to the company, the principal of which are described below.
The opportunity has also been taken to clear the articles of redundant language, to simplify the numbering, to make a number of other minor or administrative changes and otherwise bring the articles of association in line with current practice.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2004 79 The number identifying each article corresponds to the numbering in the proposed new articles of association.
Article 15 Disclosure of interests This article gives the company the right to request a member or any person appearing to be interested to disclose any interest they may have in shares in the company.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, this article allows the Board to impose sanctions on a member where disclosure notice has been served on that member and that member fails to disclose the required information within 14 days of the request.
Sanctions can only be imposed if, in the disclosure notice, the Board warned the member of the risks of sanctions upon non-disclosure.
Sanctions include loss of the right to attend and vote at any general meeting and, if the member holds 0.25 per cent or more of the issued share capital of the company, loss of dividends or other moneys and non-registration of the transfer of any shares.
Sanctions cease to apply no later than seven days following the earlier of the Board being satisfied that the information requested has been produced or disposal of the shares.
6 Business not to be deemed special at an AGM This new article includes an additional matter which will be deemed ordinary business at an annual general meeting, namely the approval of the remuneration report of the directors prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Ordinary business can be transacted at an annual general meeting whether or not it is referred to in the notice of meeting although it will continue to be the companys practice to specify all ordinary business at least in outline.
Article 25.10-13 Proceedings at general meetings These new provisions grant additional powers to the Chairman to ensure the orderly and efficient conduct of meetings and, in particular, provide that no amendment to resolutions may be considered or voted upon unless notice in writing of the terms of the proposed amendment has been lodged at least 48 hours prior to the meeting, at the registered ofce of the company.
Article 30 Remuneration of directors This article contains a maximum limit on non-executive directors remuneration for their services as ofcers of the company including amounts payable under any other provision in the articles.
It is proposed that the limit is subject to increase in line with any percentage increase in the retail prices index.
Resolution 12 This resolution seeks approval of the Cattles Long-Term Incentive Plan 2005, details of which are set out in the accompanying circular.
Resolution 13 This resolution seeks approval of the Cattles Executive Share Option Scheme 2005, details of which are set out in the accompanying circular.
