Directors and Other Information Directors Solicitors Simon fide Zoete Chairman Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Mark Nicholls 65 Fleet Street Angus Russell London EC4Y 1HS Sir Keith Stuart New Zealand Registrar Helen Weir Computershare Investor Services Limited Investment Manager PO Box 92119 Henderson Global Investors Limited, Auckland 1020 authorised and regulated by the Financial New Zealand Services Authority Telephone New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 Portfolio Manager: Job Curtis New Zealand Stockbrokers ABN AMRO Craigs Secretary Farming House Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, 102-104 Spring Street represented by Krista Burwood, FCIS PO Box 13155 Tauranga, New Zealand Registered Office 4 Broadgate Registered Number London EC2M 2DA Registered as an investment company in Telephone 020 7818 1818 England and Wales No.
34871 Facsimile 020 7818 1819 Contact details for ISA and PEP holders and Registrar Share Plan members are listed below.
The Computershare Investor Services PLC Henderson Investor Services department can PO Box 82 be reached on 0800 832 832 or The Pavilions retailclientservices@henderson.
com Bristol BS99 7NH Shareholders on the main register should Telephone 0870 702 0000 contact the Registrar, details as above.
Registered Auditor ISAs and PEPs Ernst & Young LLP Henderson Investment Management Limited 1 More London Place Block C Western House London SE1 2AF Lynch Wood Business Park Peterborough PE2 6BP Stockbrokers UBS Investment Bank Share Plan 1 Finsbury Avenue The Share Plan Administrator London EC2M 2PP Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland PO Box 28448 Freepost KE5906 Edinburgh EH4 1ZQ A MEMBER OF THE ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT TRUST COMPANIES 44 The City of London Alliance Trust Pension Saving on a regular basis can build up a substantial pool of assets to fund a retirement pension.
City of London has created a pension plan in conjunction with Alliance Trust Savings which offers a simple, low cost approach to pension savings.
The plan offers: The opportunity to invest in a combination of the City of London and Alliance trusts, combining the investment expertise for which these two investment trusts are well known.
Investment of up to 3,600 per tax year, with regular savings from only 50 per month.
The tax advantages which only a pension plan can provide.
An investment of 3,600 requires you to contribute only 2,808 net with basic rate tax reclaimed on your behalf by our administrator.
For a higher rate tax payer, higher rate relief can be reclaimed bringing the net cost of a 3,600 investment down to 2,160.
Low charges, with no annual plan charges and a charging structure over the life of the product which can compare favourably with the stakeholder limit of 1%.
A transparent structure, with the value of your pension investment available on any working day.
Flexibility in choosing your pension provider when you retire and wish to take an income from your pension plan.
The option to invest on behalf of a non working partner, children, grandchildren etc.
Further Information Information on the City of London Alliance Trust Pension can be found at www.
com Alternatively, please contact our Investor Services team at Henderson Global Investors on 0800 832 832.
We may record telephone conversations for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Important information Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it may fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency fluctuations and you may not get back, in the form of pension benefits, the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend on individual circumstances.
The references in this document to the City of London Alliance Trust Pension Plan have been approved for the purposes of section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, by Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS, PO Box 164, Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee, DD1 9YP.
ATS is the provider, trustee and administrator of the Alliance Trusts Pension Plan, through which the City of London Alliance Trust Pension is made available.
This pension plan is provided on a direct offer basis and no advice is given by ATS.
CITY OF LONDON shares are available through the following products: The City of London Alliance Trust Pension see inside back cover.
Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 and additional top-up from 100 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate and complimentary newsletters Henderson ISA Tax free income and tax free growth Regular savings from 100 per month or lump sum investments from 2,000 An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your bank or building society account Half yearly valuations, reports and complimentary newsletters Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA A Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA allows you to transfer your existing PEP or ISA funds into the Trust.
Investments retain their tax-efficient status during and after transfer.
Please remember that the value of your investment can fall as well as rise and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Further Information Please consult our website cityinvestmenttrust.
com or write to Henderson Global Investors, FREEPOST, Newbury RG14 2ZZ.
Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on freephone 0800 832 832 quoting the reference REPORT.
Please call 44 20 7818 1818 if you are telephoning from abroad.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc, Henderson Investment Management Limited and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the FSA, provide investment products and services.
Henderson Global Investors is the appointed Investment Manager for The City of London Investment Trust plc Printed by Garden House Press Ltd, London HGI9224 2004
