Corporate Governance continued Relations with Shareholders Exercise of Voting Powers The board considers that shareholders should be The Company has approved a corporate governance encouraged to attend and participate in the Annual voting policy which accords with current best General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting is practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on chaired by the Chairman of the board and all financial returns.
A summary of the proxy Statement of Compliance votes received on the resolutions proposed is The directors consider that the Company has displayed at the meeting.
The Company has adopted complied with all material provisions of the existing a nominee share code which is set out on page 40.
Code throughout the accounting period ended The Portfolio Manager, as the representative of the 30 June 2004.
The Company has also adopted all Investment Manager, makes a presentation to relevant elements of the Revised Code and is shareholders.
The board regularly monitors the compliant with the AITC Code.
shareholder register of the Company.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 41 to 43 sets out the business of the meeting and the special resolutions are explained more fully in the Report of the Directors on pages 14 to 17.
Separate resolutions are proposed to each substantive issue.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts Company law requires the directors to prepare The directors confirm that the accounts comply with accounts for each financial year which give a true the above requirements.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company The directors are responsible for ensuring that and of the net revenue of the Company for that proper accounting records are kept which disclose year.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial required to: position of the Company and enable them to ensure select suitable accounting policies and then apply that the accounts comply with the Companies Act them consistently: 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking make judgements and estimates that are reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of reasonable and prudent: and fraud and other irregularities.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
