General Shareholder Information Release of Results Share Price Listings Half year results are announced in early February.
Full year The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is results are announced in early September.
published daily in The Financial Times and in other leading newspapers.
The Financial Times also shows figures for Annual General Meeting the estimated net asset value and the discount.
The AGM is held in London in October.
The market prices of the Companys preference, preferred ordinary and debenture stocks can be found in the BACS London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Dividends and interest can be paid to shareholders and stockholders by means of BACS Bankers Automated Performance Details Share Price Information Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are Details of the Companys share price and net asset value available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can be found on the Henderson website.
The address is can write to the Registrar the address is given on page www.
com The Companys net asset value 44 to give their instructions: these must include the bank is published daily.
account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank to which payments are to be made.
Shareholder Details Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form Disability Act can check their shareholding with the Registrar, Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents Computershare Investor Services PLC, via issued by the Company are available from the Company www.
com Please note that to gain Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a access to your details on the Computershare site you will variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger need the holder reference number on the top left hand type as appropriate.
corner of your share certificate.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow ISIN SEDOL number speech and hearing impaired people who have their own The ISIN code SEDOL Stock Exchange Daily Official textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an List number of the Companys shares is intermediate operator by dialling 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during normal Nominee Share Code business hours to answer queries via this service.
Where notification has been provided in advance, the Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk Company will arrange for copies of shareholder operator provided by the Royal National Institute for communications to be provided to the operators of Deaf People dial 18001 followed by the number you nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general wish to dial.
meetings and speak at them when invited to do so by the For investors through the Henderson Investment Trust Chairman.
Share Plan, Henderson PEP or ISA a textphone telephone Investors in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan service is available on 020 7850 5406.
This service is and the Henderson PEP or ISA receive all shareholder available during normal business hours.
A letter of direction or instruction, as appropriate, is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
