INDEX Item Page Item Page A H Accounting policies 83 Health see Social, environmental and ethical performance 27 Acquisitions 121 I American Depositary Shares ADSs 132 Information technology 31 Annual General Meeting 62 Intangible fixed assets 103 Auditors remuneration 90 Interest 90 Auditors report 77 Internal controls 60 Audit committee 58 J B Joint ventures and associates 107 Balance sheets 79, 82 Board committees 58 L Board of directors 8 Leases 105, 118 Borrowings facilities 49, 112 Legal proceedings 52, 119 Liquid resources 80 C Capital expenditure 36 M Cash flow statement 80 Minority interests 78 Cautionary statement 1 Movement in shareholders funds 81 Chairmans statement 4 N Charitable donations 63 Notes to the financial statements 85 Chief executives review 6 Commitments 51, 118 O Contact information 136 Operating review 34 Contingent liabilities 52, 119 Operating review Process Gas Solutions 36 Corporate governance 56 Operating review Industrial and Special Products 39 Creditors 110 Operating review BOC Edwards 41 Critical accounting policies 53 Operating review Afrox hospitals 42 Cross reference to Form 20-F 138 Operating review Gist 42 D P Debtors 109 Pensions and retirement benefits 95 Depreciation 105 Profit and loss account 78 Directors interests 71 Provisions for liabilities and charges 116 Directors remuneration see Remuneration 93 R Directors report 2 Ratios 49 Directors responsibilities statement 76 Registered office outside back cover Directors service contracts 69 Registrars 136 Disposals 121 Related party transactions 124 Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP 136 Remuneration 93 Dividends 103 Report on remuneration 64 Donations see Charitable donations 63 Research and development 30 E Reserves 117 Earnings per share 103 Risk 32 Employees 23, 93 S Employment policies and principles 23 Safety see Social, environmental and ethical performance 27 Environment see Social, environmental and ethical performance 28 Segmental information 85 Exceptional items 34, 49, 89 Share option and incentive schemes 94 Exchange rates 55 Share price 132 Executive management board 10 Shareholder analysis 133 F Shareholder information 132 Fair value of acquisitions 122 Social, environmental and ethical performance 25 Financial calendar 136 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 81 Financial highlights 2 Stocks 108 Financial instruments 112 Substantial shareholdings 133 Financial review 49 Supplier payment policy 55 Five year record 12 T G Tangible fixed assets 105 Glossary of terms 139 Taxation 90 Going concern 55 Total shareholder return 65, 67 Goodwill 103 U Group profile 14 US GAAP information and reconciliations 124 Group undertakings 130 US investor information 134 W Website 136 140 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Report of the directors Financial statements Shareholder information 02 Financial highlights 76 Responsibility of the directors 132 Dividends 04 Chairmans statement 77 Report by the independent 132 Nature of trading market 06 Chief executives review auditors 133 Analysis of shareholdings 08 Board of directors 78 Group profit and loss account 134 Taxation 10 Executive management board 79 Group balance sheet 136 Financial calendar 12 Group five year record 80 Group cash flow statement 136 Key contacts information 14 Group profile 81 Total recognised gains 138 Cross reference to 23 Employees and losses Form 20-F 25 Social, environmental and 81 Movement in 139 Glossary of terms ethical performance shareholders funds 140 Index 30 Research, development 82 Balance sheet of and information technology The BOC Group plc 32 Risk factors 83 Accounting policies 34 Operating review 85 Notes to the financial 49 Financial review statements 56 Corporate governance 130 Group undertakings 64 Report on remuneration The BOC Group plc 2004.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London using RingMaster.
Printed by CTD Printers Limited.
The BOC Group plc Report and accounts 2004 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 Registered in England No.
com BOC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2004 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 Registered in England No.
com BOC AROUND THE WORLD 0 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Shareholder information Dividend reinvestment plan American Depositary Shares A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP, through which Ordinary The BOC Group plc American Depositary Shares ADS are listed shareholders may invest the whole of their cash dividends in on the New York Stock Exchange and trade under the symbol BOX.
additional shares in the company, is available.
Ordinary shareholders One ADS represents two The BOC Group plc Ordinary shares.
on the register at the record date may participate in the plan provided JPMorgan Chase Bank is the depositary and their address for their application forms are received by the DRIP notice date shown enquiries is: in the financial calendar on the previous page.
Copies of the JPMorgan Chase Bank explanatory brochure and application form are available on the JPMorgan Service Center companys website www.
com or from Lloyds TSB Registrars PO Box 43013 whose details appear on the previous page.
Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA THE BOC GROUP.
OPERATING Telephone: 1 781 575 4328 Payment of dividends Website: www.
com shareholder Ordinary shareholders and loan stock holders may arrange to have their dividends or interest paid directly into a bank or building society A dividend reinvestment plan is available through JPMorgan Chase AROUND THE WORLD.
SUPPL YING account through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Bank as depositary for holders of ADSs.
All enquiries regarding this Mandate forms are available on the companys website www.
com plan should be addressed to: or from Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details appear on the previous ESSENTIAL PRODUCTS AND Global Invest Direct page or alternatively you can set up a new, or change an existing, JPMorgan Chase Bank dividend mandate via the Lloyds TSB Registrars shareview website PO Box 43013 at www.
In February of each year a consolidated tax SERVICES TO INDUSTRIES BOTH Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA voucher relating to Ordinary dividend payments made via BACS during Telephone, toll free: JPMorgan Service Center on the financial year, will be mailed to the registered address of the 1 800 749 1687 or 1 800 428 4237 shareholder.
Loan stock holders will receive tax vouchers at the time LARGE AND SMALL.
WITH GLOBAL of each interest payment in April and October, mailed directly to their ShareGift registered address.
Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which makes STRATEGIES DELIVERED LOCALLY.
it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider donating them to Overseas dividend payments charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Private shareholders in 36 countries may now have their dividends Mackintosh Foundation.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained paid directly into their local bank accounts in their local currency.
PUTTING CUSTOMER SERVICE AT from Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details appear on the previous page.
There is a small fixed fee for the service, currently 2.50 per dividend.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org The dividend payment, less the fee, is normally received within five or by writing to: working days of the dividend payment date.
For more information, THE FOREFRONT.
FOLLOWING ITS please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars whose details appear on the ShareGift previous page.
The Orr Mackintosh Foundation 46 Grosvenor Street KEY CUSTOMERS WHEREVER THEY Share dealing services London W1K 3HN, England For Internet and telephone share dealing services contact Lloyds TSB Telephone: 020 7337 0501 Registrars by either logging on to www.
co. uk dealing or by DO BUSINESS.
AND INVESTING calling 0870 850 0852 between 8.30 am and 4.30 pm on any business Unsolicited mail day excluding bank holidays.
You will need your shareholder reference The company is obliged by law to make its share register publicly number shown on your share certificate.
available and as a consequence some shareholders may receive IN ITS PEOPLE BECAUSE BOCS unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the amount of unsolicited mail Lloyds TSB Registrars also offer a postal share dealing service.
you receive, contact: For further information contact: The Mailing Preference Service PEOPLE ARE THE ONES WHO MAKE Share Dealing Services FREEPOST 29 LON.
20771 Lloyds TSB Registrars London W1E OZT, England PO Box 1357 Telephone: 020 7291 3310 or register on-line at www.
The Causeway, Worthing West Sussex BN99 6UB, England The Mailing Preference Service is an independent organisation which offers a free service to the public.
Registering with them will stop most unsolicited consumer advertising material.
Special needs If you would like to receive this report in an appropriate alternative format, such as large print, Braille, or audio cassette, please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3958 or for shareholders with hearing difficulties on Teltex 0870 600 3950.
Annual General Meeting 2005 The Annual General Meeting will be held on Friday 14 January 2005 29 Summary financial statements CONTENTS at the Institution of Electrical Engineers Lecture Theatre, Savoy Place, 30 Report of the directors 02 Financial highlights London WC2R 0BL, England commencing at 11.00 am.
31 Independent auditors statement 02 2004 results 32 Directors remuneration 04 Chairmans statement 35 Group profit and loss account 06 Chief executives review 36 Group balance sheet 08 Implementing our strategy 37 Group cash flow statement around the world 37 Reconciliation of net cash flow 20 Operating review to movement in net debt 24 Corporate responsibility The BOC Group plc 2004.
38 Notes to the financial statements Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar London.
26 Board of directors Principal photography by George Brooks.
40 Shareholder information 28 Executive management board Board photography by Keith Waldegrave.
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR In the US, key Comprehensive hydrogen orders won on-site fluorine for BP and Sunoco generation system refineries in Ohio.
installed by BOC Hydrogen production Edwards at comes on stream LG Philips flat panel at Citgo refinery manufacturing facility in Illinois in Korea Compared with Forming joint venture Operating cash 2003, grew adjusted with Sinopec Shanghai flow reaches operating profit Petrochemical 758.5 million and and earnings Company, a subsidiary net borrowings each quarter of Sinopec, Chinas reduced to leading petrochemical 962.4 million company Gist invests in new Packaged gas business 100,000 square foot in the US sold, leaving refrigeration facility a more focused and to support growing profitable north demand from American Industrial Marks & Spencer and Special Products business 01 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Turnover subsidiary companies Operating profit Profit before tax 2004 2004 2004 3,885.4m 559.5m 412.3m 2003 3,718.3m 2003 438.6m 2003 351.9m 2002 3,657.7m 2002 425.6m 2002 335.3m Turnover including share of joint ventures and associates Adjusted operating profit Adjusted profit before tax 2004 2004 2004 4,599.3m 576.9m 504.3m 2003 4,323.2m 2003 505.6m 2003 418.9m 2002 4,017.9m 2002 500.1m 2002 430.0m Figures shown as adjusted exclude exceptional items.
Other figures shown are prepared under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP and include all exceptional items.
Adjusted figures are presented to provide a more meaningful indication of underlying business performance and trends.
These are the primary performance figures used by Group management.
In accordance with guidance and regulations issued by UK and US regulatory bodies, where adjusted or non-GAAP figures are shown, the comparable GAAP figures are also shown.
2004 RESULTS Analysis by business Turnover including share of joint ventures and associates million % 5 1 1.
Gist 25.1 4 2 Corporate 15.6 3 Total 576.9 100 02 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Financial highlights Earnings per share Dividends per share Return on capital employed 2004 2004 2004 53.5p 40.0p 14.9% 2003 44.5p 2003 39.0p 2003 10.9% 2002 41.4p 2002 38.0p 2002 10.6% Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted return on capital employed 2004 2004 63.2p 15.4% 2003 52.9p 2003 12.6% 2002 55.9p 2002 12.5% Analysis by region Turnover including share of joint ventures and associates million % 1 1.
Asia Pacific 235.2 41 2 Total 576.9 100 4 3 03 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2004 was a good year for your company.
BOC has a consistent strategy that has been well implemented a testament to all BOCs management and staff.
Your board owns and reviews this strategy.
We follow a well-defined annual process that allows all members of the board to examine every aspect of the Groups progress and opportunities.
Much can be learnt by questioning and testing in the formal environment of the boardroom, but there is no substitute for seeing the strategy at work in the real world, with customers, business partners and staff.
For that reason we hold two board meetings each year outside our Windlesham headquarters.
We went to China in the autumn of 2003 and saw the impressive work underway in the Shanghai and Nanjing areas to develop world-scale petrochemical complexes: these are areas where BOC has established an important presence.
We also spent a day with the management team of our logistics business, Gist.
For our first meeting of the 2005 financial year we visited South Africa and saw the progressive economic and social developments to which our Afrox subsidiary is making a major contribution.
Over the next 12 months we will also visit Poland and the US.
An important element of the strategy over recent years has been to reshape our portfolio of businesses to enhance future growth and profitability.
We will continue to examine opportunities as and when they arise.
Returns to our shareholders In 2004 BOC paid a first interim dividend of 15.5p per share in February 2004 and a second interim dividend of 24.5p per share in August, making a total of 40p for the year as a whole, an increase of 2.6 per cent on 2003.
Having held the first interim dividend at 15.5p for several years, while growing the second interim dividend, we have BUILDING FOR reached our aim of a 40:60 ratio between the two interim dividends.
As a result your board has decided to raise the first interim dividend GROWTH AND by 2.6 per cent to 15.9p to be paid on 1 February 2005.
In 2004 our dividends were covered 1.58 times by adjusted earnings and we look to build our dividend cover towards two-times over the medium term.
PROFITABILITY We therefore aim to grow the dividend progressively, albeit at a lower rate than earnings per share growth.
Again this year, as in the two previous years, I include graphs comparing BOCs total shareholder returns since 2000 with all FTSE100 companies and with its main gases competitors.
The message remains the same.
We have performed well compared with other UK companies but a gap requires to be bridged with our competitors.
Corporate Governance BOC complies with the existing Combined Code on Corporate Governance and I reported last year that we already substantially complied with the revisions to the code announced in 2003, even though we need not have done so until 2005.
This is part of our continuing commitment to the highest standards of governance and integrity.
Throughout BOC there is a strong commitment to the principles of ACTS accountability, collaboration, transparency and stretch.
These principles, supported by a well established Code of Conduct, provide strong safeguards at all levels of the organisation.
04 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Your company is well aware that it is judged not only by its financial success but also by how this financial success is achieved.
How well we manage social, environmental and ethical SEE risks is important to the long-term health of our business.
For the first time this year BOC participated in the independent survey of companies corporate responsibility performance conducted by the UKs Business in the Community.
500 companies were invited to participate, 139 did so, including 56 from the FTSE100.
BOC was ranked 25th with an aggregate score of well over 90 per cent.
This was a good result and confirmed our belief that we are performing well against these measures.
More recently, we have surveyed all our business units to gain a thorough understanding of how they see our SEE risks and how we are managing them.
This will form the basis of our next series of initiatives.
A US subsidiary of The BOC Group, along with other companies in the welding products industry, has been the subject of injury claims based on allegations that manganese in welding fumes causes Parkinsons disease or symptoms similar to Parkinsons disease.
We are not aware of any credible scientific evidence linking manganese in welding fumes to neurological damage under typical welding conditions.
Board of directors Total shareholder return since 1 October 2000 We welcomed three new non-executive directors to our board Percentage this year.
Guy Dawson joined in March.
He was until 2003 chairman of 60 European investment banking at Merrill Lynch having previously been 40 with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
Anne Quinn and Iain Napier 20 were appointed in May.
Anne is group vice president of BPs gas, 0 power and renewables business stream.
Iain is chief executive of 20 BOC Taylor Woodrow and brings previous experience of the brewing 40 FTSE100 industry.
Fabiola Arredondo and Roberto Mendoza resigned from the Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03 Oct-04 board during the year, each because of increasing demands on their time from their other commitments.
Both Fabiola and Roberto have Total shareholder return October 2000 October 2004 made valuable contributions to BOC for which I thank them.
BOC relative to FTSE100 compared with major gases companies relative In May I announced that Tony Isaac had accepted the boards to respective local indices Percentage invitation to continue as your chief executive until the Annual General 100 Meeting in January 2007.
We are very pleased that he will continue to 80 provide leadership in the successful execution of our strategy.
My thanks always go first to BOCs employees around the world 60 as they make your company what it is.
It is our talented and dedicated 40 BOC relative to FTSE100 people that make the difference in a competitive market.
I thank our Other gases companies 20 customers for choosing BOC.
I thank all those who partner, supply and 0 contribute to BOC wherever we do business.
Finally, I thank you our shareholders for your continuing support.
Rob Margetts Chairman 05 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW BOC performed strongly in 2004 in a generally favourable economic environment.
Each quarter we reported adjusted operating profit and earnings significantly ahead of the equivalent period in 2003.
Our two gases lines of business, Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products, saw mostly buoyant trading conditions although the strength of the rand restrained industrial activity in South Africa.
Semiconductor manufacturers increased their investment this year after an extended period of reduced activity and this benefited BOC Edwards.
As a result we reported adjusted operating profit for the year of 576.9 million, up 15 per cent, on turnover up nine per cent at 4,599.3 million.
Adjusted profit before tax rose 20 per cent.
I explained last year that our adjusted figures eliminate exceptional items that would otherwise create distortions.
Also our year-on-year comparisons are at constant currency, shorn of the effects of converting local profits into sterling.
This way we show clearly how we performed in the competitive markets of the 50 or so countries where we operate.
When I describe our business performance below I will do so on this basis.
Our statutory results include exceptional items and reflect currency movements when comparing performance with last year.
On this basis turnover increased by six per cent, operating profit by 28 per cent and profit before tax by 17 per cent.
Successful businesses Process Gas Solutions delivered a nine per cent increase in turnover and raised adjusted operating profit by ten per cent.
At the start of the year in China we and our joint venture partners announced that we would invest over US$100 million in three schemes at Taiyuan, Suzhou and in the Pearl River region.
In June 2004 we announced the SIGNIFICANTLY setting up of a joint venture with Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Company Ltd SPC.
This is the second joint venture with a subsidiary of Sinopec, Chinas leading petrochemical company, following our IMPROVED agreement in 2002 with Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical Corporation.
This second joint venture intends to invest in some 3,000 tonnes a day PERFORMANCE of industrial gas production assets currently owned by SPC before embarking on building a new world-scale air separation unit.
This flow OVER 2003 of new orders means that we will double our production capacity in China by the end of 2005, with a corresponding increase in turnover.
Elsewhere we were successful in winning key hydrogen orders for BP and Sunoco refineries in the US, in acquiring Duke Energys 30 per cent ownership interest in Compaa fide Nitrgeno fide Cantarell, the joint venture company that owns the worlds largest nitrogen complex in Mexico, and in winning the order with our joint venture partners for the largest air separation unit in Thailand.
As well as supplying hydrogen for todays applications we continue to invest for the opportunities predicted for hydrogen energy in the decades to come.
Industrial and Special Products grew both turnover and adjusted operating profit by three per cent and ten per cent respectively.
2004 was the first full year of contributions from two recent acquisitions, namely Praxairs Polish gases business and Air Products packaged gas business in Canada.
06 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Chief executives review BOC Edwards saw the long-awaited upturn in investment by the semiconductor industry as well as increased demand from growing markets, notably flat panel displays in Asia.
The result was a 27 per cent rise in turnover and a 181 per cent increase in adjusted operating profit.
Gist, our logistics business, did well to maintain turnover following the loss last year of Marks & Spencers general merchandise business.
Adjusted operating profit fell by 14 per cent, but in 2003 we included a 4.1 million gain resulting from the M&S contract termination: without this one-off payment adjusted operating profit would have been flat year on year.
Afrox hospitals continued to grow and perform well, turnover rising by nine per cent and adjusted operating profit by 16 per cent.
Managing to the highest standards In November 2003 we announced that African Oxygen Limited We continue to use our global structure to transfer best had agreed to sell its majority shareholding in Afrox Healthcare Limited operating and commercial practice, to offer the highest standards to a consortium led by two major black economic empowerment of service to all our customers, and to meet the needs of our key investors.
We then announced in January 2004 our intention to sell customers wherever they do business in the world.
Our operating our US packaged gas business, part of our north American Industrial procedures are supported by global programmes such as our Code and Special Products unit, to Airgas for up to US$200 million.
of Conduct and we work hard to tap the full potential of our diverse We completed the US disposal successfully in July this year while the and talented workforce.
Afrox Healthcare sale remains subject to final clearance by the It is important that we manage all our business risks, not just competition authorities in South Africa.
The motives for these two the financial ones.
Operating as we do in a hazardous industry, disposals were very different.
In Afrox Healthcare we have a business in everyone must pay the greatest attention to safety, whether it be the which we have invested successfully over recent years.
The medium to safety of fellow employees, of our customers and suppliers or indeed of long-term future for private healthcare is uncertain in South Africa and those in the communities where we live and work.
We concentrate on we had the opportunity to sell a highly successful business and let it making safety second nature for all our employees.
By managing these develop further under new black economic empowerment ownership.
non-financial risks we protect our business and the reputation of BOC.
Our US packaged gas business also received much attention and There has been one change this year to the executive investment over the years, but it never fulfilled its promise.
Its sale and management team.
Greg Sedgwick returned to his native Australia to the successful transfer of over 1,000 of our employees to the new take up an appointment as chief executive of a listed building products owner is a good outcome.
We retain a large presence in the US, with company: I wish him well in his future career.
Mark Nichols, who had substantial and successful businesses that will benefit from increased been based in Singapore, has succeeded Greg as Group director for management focus and a reduced overhead cost base.
BOC is fortunate in having good people at all The two significant joint ventures we have established in the levels of the organisation and we place great emphasis on recruiting, last two years Linde BOC Process Plants and Japan Air Gases developing and retaining the best people wherever we find them in continue to perform well.
We have a diverse workforce and I take a personal interest in ensuring that this diversity is reflected increasingly at all levels.
Cash I thank all employees of BOC for their hard work and for the Operating cash flow was 758.5 million, up some eight per cent contribution they have made to a successful year.
Keeping our on last year, due to improved operating profit and better management customers satisfied is more important than ever and we strive to of working capital.
In addition, proceeds from disposals and lower levels deliver the same high standard of service wherever our customers of capital expenditure resulted in a decline in our net borrowings for choose to do business with us.
We work hard to deliver the financial the sixth successive quarter, ending the year down 405.7 million at returns our shareholders expect.
We are also well aware of the 962.4 million.
This was after paying a further 64 million into the wider responsibilities we have to the economic and social life of the main UK pensions scheme, an increase of 28 million over last year.
All of this depends on the people of BOC and they respond by delivering high performance day by day.
Tony Isaac Chief executive 07 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 IMPLEMENTING OUR STRATEGY AROUND THE WORLD BOC has three lines of business, two specialist businesses and a comprehensive strategy.
Consistently applied, this strategy has led to major changes in our business portfolio.
It has seen resource concentrated in Asia and growth markets around the world.
It has produced investment in technologies and new markets of the future.
And it has enabled us to work more efficiently and effectively to serve our customers today.
Some of the results of BOCs strategic thinking are in the pages that follow.
08 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 INDUSTRIAL AND SPECIAL PRODUCTS Industrial and Special Products delivers products and services to a host of BOC EDWARDS specialist businesses.
With distribution The semiconductor industry is one of networks that bring it close to its the most innovative on the planet and customers, Industrial and Special BOC Edwards is one of its innovative Products matches the complex needs PROCESS GAS suppliers.
Traditionally known for of medical and scientific communities SOLUTIONS its vacuum and electronic gases while supplying many of the basic technology, BOC Edwards now offers With its headquarters in Singapore and requirements that keep local industry a broad range of products and services with technical specialists in all the key working around the world.
for its semiconductor customers as markets of the world, Process Gas well as other high technology growth Solutions installs and operates complex industries.
Innovation gives BOC plants for some of the worlds largest Edwards the edge, whether it is and most demanding industrial developing the products and services customers.
It also delivers liquefied demanded by its high technology gases and runs on-site plants for those customers or producing effective requiring bulk supplies.
Process Gas solutions for a host of other markets.
Solutions does business wherever its key customers do business.
BOC has two specialist businesses: Afrox hospitals, a supplier of private health care in southern Africa and Gist, a logistics business.
09 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Around the world 10 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 SEEING Around the world Process Gas Solutions operates on a global scale and is used to dealing with big numbers.
Our 6,500 operations people look after 900 production plants.
They deliver gas to customers through pipelines and in 2,000 vehicles.
They make 1.5 million deliveries of liquefied gas each year, storing it in over 20,000 insulated tanks at our customers sites.
For as long as our operations people can remember, the emphasis has been on becoming more efficient.
We measure everything, from how much electricity it takes to produce each cubic metre of gas, to how many kilometres each truck has to travel to deliver that gas to a customer.
We then consistently improve each of these measures, as we have done for decades.
Computing power and improved communications technology helps, but working against us has been the steady, and more recently spectacular, increase in energy costs.
We try and keep all of our plants operating reliably and at peak efficiency all the time, adapting to changes in demand patterns and input costs.
We use real time information about the weather and power pricing to adjust our operations.
We know second by second how our plants are performing.
And we have process data stretching back over time with which we can compare current performance.
The result is a stream of energy efficiency projects.
As an example, in the US we have just finished investing $1.3 million to improve a 14,000 horsepower compressor at one of our sites in California.
It took a year to plan and another year to implement the changes and the end result is a three per cent power saving.
Saving power has important environmental benefits and, as carbon trading becomes an economic reality in many parts of the world, it can save money twice over.
Our plant at Port Kembla in Australia calculates that its power savings this year equate to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of nearly 5,800 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
The plant is one of many we have equipped with linear model predictive control LMPC as part of our global programme to optimise plant performance and it has been able to trade its carbon savings on the open market.
Its the same story in every part of our business doing more with less and ensuring that everything we do is done safely.
Its just that the figures look that much bigger when you work on the scale of Process Gas Solutions.
Right: The plant at Port Kembla in Australia.
Below: Supplying hydrogen to the Citgo refinery in Illinois, US.
11 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 CLEARLY...... where improvements can be made Around the world HYDROGEN A FUEL OF THE FUTURE THA T DELIVERS ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS TODAY This bus is taking part in a trial.
It and ones like it are on the streets of London, England and Perth, Australia carrying passengers for a living.
But unlike other buses, its virtually silent and its exhaust emission is water vapour, pure and simple, because its a bus running on electricity from fuel cells driven by hydrogen.
The word is out that hydrogen could be the fuel of the future.
Clean, efficient and plentiful, especially when derived from renewable resources, it is a strong candidate to succeed hydrocarbons later in the century.
Right now, its most important role is in helping make the hydrocarbons we burn in our cars more  by removing sulphur from oil as part of the refining process.
Hydrogen also helps refiners extract more light products from barrels of heavier crude oil.
This year BOC has won contracts that will increase the amount of hydrogen we supply to the refining industry by a quarter.
We already operate the southern hemispheres largest hydrogen plant serving BPs refinery at Bulwer Island in Australia.
We are now building one of the largest hydrogen plants in the US to supply BP and Sunoco refineries at Toledo in Ohio.
The role that hydrogen has to play in the future energy needs of the world still has to be worked through.
As oil becomes less plentiful and more expensive the search intensifies for alternative fuels that combine oils flexibility and availability.
And hydrogen is a contender for the leading role.
12 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Around the world The only emission from this bus is water vapour.
13 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Around the world INTELLIGENT How Marks & Spencer and Gist brought RFID to the retail world Fast and efficient supply chains are essential for any retailer.
The trial of radio frequency identification, or RFID, started When Marks & Spencer places an order on one of its food in 2003 at Gists Barnsley depot.
In the worlds biggest suppliers at 06.00 it normally expects the product to be on RFID implementation project in the retail sector, M&S sale in its stores from 07.30 the following day.
Gist manages tagged 3.5 million of its food trays with microchips that the supply chain for most of M&S chilled and ambient food can store information about the product in the tray far and all these products pass through its six distribution more information than a traditional bar code could handle.
centres and out to M&S stores throughout the UK.
The information can be read, changed and updated easily and allows M&S and its suppliers to follow the product all the way from factory to store.
As the trays are wheeled past an RFID sensor the data are read, systems updated, and the operator is told where to position the trays ready for the next stage of delivery.
It used to take 30 seconds or more to scan a stack of trays using hand-held bar code 14 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 % Around the world % CHIPS LIKE THIS ARE ON MORE THAN 3.5 MILLION M&S FOOD TRAYS.
THEY ARE MUCH QUICKER TO READ THAN A BAR CODE AND CAN BE REWRITTEN AND USED FOR MANY TRIPS.
THEY SIGNIFICANTLY IMPROVE DELIVERY ACCURACY AND STOCK MANAGEMENT.
DELIVERY Left: Products move more quickly readers: now it takes around five seconds.
tagging is fully in use, Gist expects it will also reduce its vehicle turn-round time by up to a half, making more efficient use of its vehicles.
The programme won Retail Week magazines retail technology solution award this year and is expected to be fully implemented by early next year.
When this is done the next stage of supply chain improvements will begin: trials have already identified other areas where RFID technology can bring benefits.
15 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Around the world Far left: BOC has a growing team in Shanghai, China.
Left: The new plant in Suzhou, China.
MOVINGTOWORLD-SCALE Developments in Asia continue to change the economic map of the world 16 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Around the world Left: Serving the Hsinchu science park in Taiwan.
For years Asia has been the growth region of the world.
For Process Gas Solutions the US market It suffered in the financial crisis of the late 1990s and has will deliver many opportunities over the next few years, but taken economic knocks recently from SARS and bird flu it is in Asia, and particularly China, that the new world-scale but, even so, over virtually any recent period you wish to developments are underway.
The headquarters of Process choose it has delivered faster growth than other parts of Gas Solutions moved to Singapore two years ago and in the world.
This is important to BOC because we started Shanghai we are growing a talented and knowledgeable investing seriously in Asia at an early stage and we have team able to deliver and manage the major projects we consistently built our regional leadership.
Looking around Asia there are few countries BOCs future is built around all the countries where we are not number one or two, and in most we can in which it operates, with Asia taking a special role.
China has drawn the growth spotlight onto Asia offers exciting growth opportunities.
Asia offers itself recently but the very scale of what is being undertaken new and challenging industries.
And, most importantly, in China should not disguise the developments taking place Asia offers talented people who will grow our business in the region as a whole.
and make successful careers in BOC.
BOC Edwards is a core supplier to the top semiconductor manufacturers, and today you will find most of them building new 300mm wafer fabs in Asia.
The traditional markets of Europe and the US remain important but again the message is that growth comes 17 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Around the world THE BUILDING BLOCKS OF SUCCESS Investing in the growth businesses of the future Below: Japan Air Gases.
BOCs joint venture with Air Liquide in Japan.
Main picture and above: BOC Above: Linde BOC Process Plants has grown its business in Canada offers world-class technology.
18 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Around the world The face of BOC has changed These acquisitions have been across all In Japan we merged OSK with Air substantially over the past six years.
We have bought Liquides industrial and medical gases We have taken opportunities to plants in Asia and Latin America that business to form Japan Air Gases.
develop our business where growth supply hydrogen and air gases to This has produced a stronger and profit expectations are good.
We have competitor with a lower cost base.
At the same time we have tackled bought specialist technology and In South Africa we have underperforming units and those vacuum pump capability to expand grown our Afrox hospitals business, likely to deliver lower growth.
And we largely by acquisition.
Today it is one We started the process of have acquired local operations from of the leading private hospital groups local consolidation when we sold our competitors in Europe, north in the country and we are in the our Benelux and German industrial America and Asia to improve the process of selling the business to black gases operations in 1998.
Since then range of products and services we can economic empowerment investors.
we have bought and assimilated give our customers.
All these are in At the same time, our packaged gas operations that add profitable business our traditional business areas: when business in the US did not deliver the in key markets around the world.
we acquired EMC, a water services performance we required and we sold company in the US, we added a it this year.
completely new service to offer our industrial customer base.
Where it makes commercial sense we have combined with others.
By forming Linde BOC Process Plants we gained access to improved technology while reducing our costs.
Below: BOC Edwards Below: BOC expanded its business turbomolecular pumps business was in Poland with the acquisition of acquired from Seiko Instruments Inc. Praxair Poland.
Above: BOC entered the water services business with the acquisition of EMC.
19 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Asia remains a focus for growth with China having attracted the OPERATING REVIEW most attention and the greatest levels of foreign direct investment.
We brought on stream little new capacity in China this year but have four large air separation units and five on-site production units currently under construction to meet growing customer demand in key economic regions, such as Dalian, Tianjin, Taiyuan, Nanjing, Shanghai and the Pearl River delta.
These new plants consolidate our position with a number of existing customers and establish us in important new industrial parks.
The move of manufacturing from Taiwan to mainland China appears to have slowed and as a result our business in Taiwan saw increased adjusted operating profit with plants running at high levels of capacity.
New argon and hydrogen capacity coming BOC reports results on a statutory basis and in a form that on stream in Korea contributed to improved performance there.
isolates the impact of currency movements from year to year General economic growth elsewhere in Asia, increased demand and eliminates the impact of exceptional or non-recurring for steel from China and continued growth in electronics packaging items.
BOCs management believes this second approach supported our business activity in India, Malaysia, Singapore and will assist shareholders in comparing performance with the Philippines.
Thailand experienced growth from petrochemical previous periods.
Where exceptional or non-recurring items expansions while bird flu adversely affected the food industry there.
are eliminated the results are referred to as adjusted.
In the US a new hydrogen plant serving the Citgo refinery in Turnover and operating profit details on each basis for Illinois came on stream and several steel customers emerged from each line of business and specialist business will be found in Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, again supported by higher world each section.
The discussion of business performance that prices for steel and increased demand from China.
We won the follows is based on figures adjusted for exceptional items contract to supply hydrogen to BPs refinery in Toledo and this was and constant currency.
followed shortly afterwards by a similar award from Sunoco.
Our joint venture with Linde, building process plants in Oklahoma, has been an Process Gas Solutions important factor in bidding successfully for business with US refiners.
Process Gas Solutions achieved growth in both turnover and Our premier beverage carbon dioxide service for carbonated drink adjusted operating profit as industrial activity remained strong in most producers continued to grow but competition intensified as additional parts of the world.
We delivered more to the metals industries in volume entered the market from new carbon dioxide sources in general and for iron and steel production in particular as it rose driven the mid-west.
Our water services business announced a major by demand from China.
Increased activity in the chemicals and refining multi-year contract from a food manufacturer and has an extensive sector resulted in major project wins as the year drew to a close.
list of prospective industrial customers.
In Latin America our new We maintained our leading position in the food sector although market 400 tonnes-a-day plant entered production serving CST in Brazil, conditions varied around the world.
The electronic packaging market the worlds biggest producer of steel slabs for export.
continued to grow strongly in Asia, driving demand for liquid nitrogen as In 2003 our business in the UK saw some notable customers the industry continued to move to lead-free soldering.
The rapidly rising move production to lower cost environments.
The trend was much cost of oil was, and will remain, a feature of the business environment as reduced this year.
Growth at Corus led to increased demand and it feeds into increased power costs and higher natural gas prices.
we signed a 15 year deal to supply 30 per cent more oxygen, nitrogen and argon to its strip products plant at Port Talbot in Wales.
Adjusted operating profit in the UK was helped by excellent plant performance and by continuing efficiency improvements.
Polish production grew and a new operations centre was established to control our key plants in that country.
Ireland, on the other hand, saw further customer closures in the year.
Cryostar, our specialist business based in France, continued its good performance: it supplies 2004 Change on Change on a range of products for liquefied natural gas carriers and these ships 1 Process Gas Solutions million previous year previous year are being built in greater numbers.
Adjusted operating profit excludes exceptional items.
Far left: Construction well underway in Nanjing, China.
Middle left top: Monitoring plant performance using the operations portal.
Middle left bottom: The worlds largest nitrogen production site in Mexico.
Left top: Hydrogen bus trials in Perth, Australia.
Right top: BOCs new hydrogen plant supplying Citgos refinery in Illinois, US.
Right bottom: Corus signs a 15 year deal for increased capacity in south Wales.
20 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Operating review In Europe both turnover and adjusted operating profit improved.
The UK still faces a challenging manufacturing environment where high levels of customer service are of the greatest importance.
Our customers tell us that they particularly value certain aspects of our service.
We measure each of these and have continuous improvement programmes in place for all of them.
While maintaining our position in the core UK market for industrial gases we grew our equipment business by rebranding and improving our network of retail outlets.
In medical, we continue to benefit from further additions to our range of lightweight cylinders and improved service offerings to hospitals.
Following our agreement last year with Hudson Technologies we deployed the first of their units in the UK, offering an environmentallyA growing economy, strong commodity prices for minerals and friendly service to our refrigeration customers.
Our Sureflow business increased demand for steel were positive factors in Australia although that serves pubs and clubs successfully integrated the new business it continuing rationalisation and business closures driven by the high level won last year in the UK and added an important win, Heineken, to its of the Australian dollar moderated growth.
The hydrogen fuel bus trial list of customers in Ireland.
In Poland sales and adjusted operating profit in Perth was successfully commissioned, following a similar project now increased in the first full year since we acquired Praxair Polska in underway in the UK.
South Africa saw export manufacturing decline as the rand The Australian economy performed well last year and our business strengthened, with gold and platinum mines particularly affected, but delivered a very strong performance, improving its position in each of in common with other parts of the world, steel production remained its target segments.
Sales and adjusted operating profit improved as a buoyant.
Adjusted operating profit grew ahead of turnover largely due result, with the largest volume increases being seen in industrial and to active cost management.
Oil and gas projects in Western Australia and on the north west shelf, and mineral projects in central Queensland were Industrial and Special Products highlights.
Customers increasingly use the Internet to do business with Industrial and Special Products ISP performed well this us and we are extending this capability to our agents through the year with improvements to the business in all parts of the world.
At the same time we have centralised all Economic conditions were generally good, with South Africa being information processing in the UK, with the Internet again being used to the notable exception as the mining and manufacturing sectors pass real-time data back and forth across the world.
New Zealand also were affected by the strength of the rand.
Elsewhere, the sale of our had a good year backed by improving economic performance.
packaged gas business in the US left us with a smaller but potentially more profitable business.
We also disposed of a small business in Turkey.
The strength of ISP has traditionally been its ability to deliver well-targeted products and services to the diverse markets and economies in which it operates.
In recent years we have overlaid strong global strategies onto this successful formula.
Our key markets for industrial, medical, hospitality and special products and services now have global direction.
World-class operating and commercial practice is now widespread, delivering higher levels of customer service and efficiency.
2004 Change on Change on 1 Industrial and Special Products million previous year previous year Turnover 1,782.3 2% 3% Operating profit 253.9 7% 5% 2 Adjusted operating profit 269.5 11% 10% 1.
Left top: Handigas is a growth product in our expanding LPG business in southern Africa.
Far left bottom: New branding for Gas & Gear stores in South Africa.
Left bottom: Safety products are a growing business in Australia.
Right: A new filling plant for hospitality gases at Worsley, UK.
Far right top: ISPs recently upgraded Wellgrow plant in Thailand.
Far right bottom: A strong local ISP management team in south and south east Asia.
21 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Operating review BOC Edwards The improvement in BOC Edwards most important market, the semiconductor industry, led to order intake growth from the start of the year.
This fed through into higher sales from the second quarter onwards.
Sales of chemical management equipment for new 300mm semiconductor fabs and for fab expansions increased, helped by the introduction of the LiquiSys flow control product line.
Kachina saw higher sales of its value-added services that reduce its customers cost of ownership.
Our nitrogen trifluoride plant in South Africa increased both production and sales.
In both Australia and South Africa our liquefied petroleum gas Together with Gist, BOC Edwards won a major gas and chemical businesses had an excellent year.
We have again demonstrated our supply chain services contract from a leading semiconductor improved ability to respond rapidly to volatile raw material prices, manufacturer, which is a major shift in the industrys approach to which are often related to the price of oil, while continuing to grow supply chain management.
The industrial market in South Africa saw The liquid crystal display LCD industry, producing flat panel reduced production in the early part of the year owing to the strong display products for a variety of uses, sustained its recent growth.
rand but activity levels rose later in the year.
Overall, both turnover This generated increased sales of vacuum products throughout Asia and adjusted operating profit improved, the latter helped by operating as well as higher gases sales to plants in Taiwan backed by multiple and overhead efficiencies.
Afrox continues to respond to its social new gases contracts.
On-site fluorine generators have been installed and economic environment with a seven-point black economic with a number of LCD and semiconductor manufacturers, the most empowerment strategy and it has won notable awards in South Africa comprehensive installation being at LG Philips sixth generation flat for its governance approach, including being named best-governed panel manufacturing facility in Korea.
The Japanese market was buoyant.
BOC Edwards sells vacuum In the Americas, the divestment of our US packaged gas and other semiconductor equipment directly into this market while business was completed at the end of July and as a result turnover gases sales are made through our Japan Air Gases joint venture with for the year declined.
However, adjusted operating profit improved.
We strengthened our position in China with leading Canada benefited from underlying improvements in performance as semiconductor and LCD manufacturers, including winning the vacuum well as a full year of trading following our acquisition of Air Products and exhaust business for the first 300mm wafer fab to be built in China.
In Latin America, Venezuela produced a notable There was a similar market improvement in Taiwan for equipment and performance, improving turnover and adjusted operating profit despite materials.
At the Hsinchu science park we invested in three new plants, political unrest, and the continued roll-out of global product and expanding our gas supply and pipeline network to serve new 300mm efficiency programmes contributed to growth throughout the region.
Equipment sales in Korea developed well.
In Asia, our joint venture Japan Air Gases performed well and Our pharmaceutical systems business had a good year.
It saw delivered expected synergies ahead of time.
Taiwan saw strong growth increased demand for its large, complex freeze drying and loading and TIG, our business in Thailand, performed well.
Some general vacuum markets improved, notably scientific Kong continues to see manufacturing move to China while bird flu instruments, but others in industrial sectors such as aerospace generally had the effect of dampening economic growth.
New vacuum product development included a range of pumps for the forthcoming generation-7 LCD plants: pumps for semiconductor applications that are smaller, use less power and have better monitoring, sensing and control capability: and new turbo and scroll pumps for the general vacuum market.
New slurry delivery and copper abatement systems, a new wet scrubber and additional exhaust products were added to the range.
2004 Change on Change on 1 BOC Edwards million previous year previous year Turnover 816.5 19% 27% Operating profit 46.8 492% 588% 2 Adjusted operating profit 47.8 158% 181% 1.
Far left top:This nonRight: BOC Edwards is a contact check-weighing key supplier to the growing system for pharmaceutical flat panel display market.
powder filling is based on Left bottom: A Zenith nuclear magnetic resonance pumping and abatement technology.
system for the Far left bottom: Fluorine semiconductor market.
generators for semiconductor and flat panel manufacturers.
Left top: Kachina specialises in cleaning process tool components.
22 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Operating review Gist Year on year growth from existing customers, together with new business wins, enabled us to offset the revenue lost last year following the termination of Marks & Spencers general merchandise business.
Among the business wins was the Dutch flower producer Intergreen, for which we now transport horticultural products between the Netherlands and the UK, and John Rannoch Foods, one of Marks & Spencers major poultry suppliers.
Through Intergreen we have added two new locations to the Gist operational network.
Gist manages the supply chain for Marks & Spencers chilled and 2004 Change on Change on ambient food and, to meet growing demand, invested over 9 million in 1 Afrox hospitals million previous year previous year a new 100,000 square foot refrigeration facility at Faversham in Kent.
Turnover 432.1 22% 9% It also manages the warehouse and distribution operations for Budgens, the UK convenience store group, and order fulfilment for Ocado, the Operating profit 59.8 30% 16% on-line grocery shopping company.
2 Adjusted operating profit 59.8 30% 16% In 2003 a long, hot summer produced a big increase in the 1.
demand for beer and Gist responded by delivering record volumes 2.
This year Carlsberg UK, one of the UKs biggest brewers, saw peaks of activity linked to two sporting events Euro 2004 and the Olympics and again the flexibility of Gists supply chain solution enabled it to respond.
Afrox hospitals In contrast with recent years, new acquisitions contributed little to Afrox hospitals increased turnover.
We increased our shareholding in Wilgeheuwel hospital during the year and had a small benefit from annualised acquisitions made last year while also disposing of three less productive units.
The largest impact on turnover came from well managed changes to the pricing regime first introduced in 2003.
2004 Change on Change on In response to legislation and discussions with medical insurance 1 Gist million previous year previous year agencies the business has negotiated daily charges and increasingly Turnover 293.2 no change 1% uses a risk-sharing model for medical and surgical interventions.
Adjusted operating profit benefited as increased turnover was Operating profit 25.1 -14% -14% managed with no addition to the overhead structure.
2 Adjusted operating profit 25.1 -14% -14% Afrox hospitals has a management contract supporting the UKs 1.
national health service in two projects at Bassetlaw and Ilkeston.
Some 40 South African doctors and nurses enjoy short-term career development in the UK while their pensions and medical aid programmes are maintained in South Africa for when they return after their secondment.
Every year Afrox hospitals trains some 700 nurses and the programme in the UK offers an attractive alternative to the permanent loss of qualified staff overseas.
For most of the year the business has been subject to an agreed acquisition by a group led by two major black economic empowerment investment groups in South Africa.
This process has been extended by the competition authorities.
In the meantime the business continues to perform well.
Left:The Glynnwood and Far left: Transporting Vincent Pallotti hospitals in flowers for Intergreen.
Left top: Applying RFID tracking technology.
Left bottom: Gists Faversham depot serving Marks & Spencer.
23 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY An organisation can be vulnerable if it does not manage its social, environmental and ethical risks, which is why in BOC we manage these risks in the same way as we do all other aspects of our business.
We make clear to all our employees what is expected of them.
Our Code of Conduct has been in place for over a year, we have trained all our employees on its contents and we ensure that all new recruits receive a full briefing.
We continue to expand our IMSS system that holds electronic copies of all our reference material, manuals, procedures and standards.
Teams of experts have assembled our global knowledge covering every aspect of our operations and it is all available on IMSS.
There is also a Our modern world would not work without industrial gases.
function called Traccess that lists which chapters of information each But playing an essential role in the economic life of some 50 employee must know to do his or her job safely and shows graphically countries is not the only standard by which a company like whether it has been successfully assimilated.
We take seriously our responsibilities Our internal standards are based on external commitments.
to all those who have a stake in our business our BOC has signed the UNs Global Compact that outlines nine principles customers, our shareholders, our employees, our suppliers supporting human rights, labour and the environment.
These are and all those who live and work in the communities where embedded in our Code of Conduct.
This year the UN introduced a we are active and we measure our impact upon them.
We played a full part in the consultation process leading up to the adoption of this principle, which Until this year we measured ourselves mainly against a series of is also embedded in our code.
If employees have concerns related to internal benchmarks.
They gave us an understanding of how we were the likes of legal compliance, ethical conduct or adherence to our Code doing but were not ideal for reporting our performance externally.
of Conduct we encourage them to raise them, with most issues being In 2004 we decided to take part in Business in the Communitys reported through line managers.
But we also have a free confidential corporate responsibility index having for a number of years taken part helpline to handle employees questions or concerns.
It is available at in the same organisations environmental performance survey.
any time and is managed by an external agency.
This comprehensive and independent analysis allowed us to Because we operate in a potentially hazardous industry our compare ourselves with 139 other UK companies, including 56 from priority has consistently been the safety of our employees and all those the FTSE100.
BOC came 25th with a score of 91.7 per cent.
Safety is always the first item on the agenda of The completed questionnaire we submitted for assessment, all 96 pages the executive management board.
While we continue to track lagging of it, is available and can be viewed with a wealth of other information indicators of our safety performance, notably the number of lost time in the corporate responsibility section of our website, boc.
injuries, medical treatment cases, and passenger car and truck accidents, As a sign of the general regard for our performance in this area we are moving towards measuring a set of predictive or leading BOC was voted Britains most admired company for community indicators such as how quickly investigation reports are finished, the and environmental responsibility in a poll conducted by Management effectiveness of our training, and how long it takes to complete Today magazine.
This year we launched Safety in BOC following a detailed independent audit of our safety processes around the world.
Our objective is very clear at BOC we dont want anyone to get hurt and we are concentrating on making safety an integral part of everyones behaviour.
The message is that safety must be 100 per cent of our behaviour, 100 per cent of the time.
Far left: Gist works in partnership with Marks & Spencer to support FareShare, delivering excess and short-shelf life product to homeless and vulnerable people in the UK.
Middle left: Tony Isaac addressing the Code of Conduct steering group.
Left:The Code of Conduct is available electronically to all staff.
24 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Corporate responsibility In a communications survey conducted with 4,000 BOC employees this year the two issues they identified as being most important for them were safety and the Code of Conduct.
In response to a further question, they rated their satisfaction with the way information on these issues was communicated to them higher than any of the other topics we measured.
BOC-developed technologies and products make important environmental contributions, whether they are reducing harmful emissions from combustion processes or dealing with the waste streams from a range of manufacturing processes.
This year BOC and the Cardiff Harbour Authority in the UK won the IChemEs ABB-sponsored environment award for the Harbour Four oxygenation barge which ensures oxygen levels are maintained in Cardiff Bay during dry spells or periods of high temperatures.
The environmental impact of our own operations is constantly monitored and continuous efforts are made to improve our performance.
We collect environmental data on-line from around 550 of our industrial sites.
Energy, particularly electricity, is one of our major costs and also a major environmental We also make an environmental contribution through the BOC factor for us.
We continue to apply new technologies to our air Foundation for the Environment, which was established in 1990 with separation plants to improve energy consumption and thus reduce initial funds of 1 million and has since supported some 120 projects.
Concentrating on scientific ideas to improve air or water quality, it helps take these to the stage where they can be practically demonstrated and widely adopted.
This year in the UK we re-launched our joint-giving scheme where we match the charitable donations of employees.
We have similar schemes in other parts of the world supporting charitable and community projects.
We also made our third annual BOC emerging artist award, worth 20,000 to the winner, to help launch a young artist on a successful career.
During the year we hosted exhibitions of the work of the winner and the short-listed finalists in the atrium of the Groups headquarters at Windlesham.
Educating the scientists and engineers of the future is important for society generally and particularly for BOC as an employer that seeks highly qualified staff.
We are continuing to build our education website as part of boc.
There teachers and students can learn the properties and uses of gases and view videos of experiments undertaken by our employees who visit schools as members of the Science Ambassadors scheme.
BOC INTENDS TO BOC is a successful business and it understands the responsibilities CONTINUE TO FULFIL ITS that accompany this success.
BOC intends to continue to fulfil its wider responsibilities in all the societies and cultures where it operates.
WIDER RESPONSIBILITIES IN ALL THE SOCIETIES AND CULTURES WHERE IT OPERATES Far left: BOC oxygenation technology is used to maintain the environment of Cardiff Bay.
Left: Mauro Bonacina won the 2004 BOC Emerging Artist Award.
25 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Rob Margetts CBE 01 58, chairman.
He is chairman of Legal & General Group plc, a non-executive director of Anglo American plc and chairman of the Natural Environment Research Council.
Previously he was with ICI PLC for 31 years, becoming a main board director in 1992 and vice chairman in 1998.
He is a fellow of both the Royal Academy of Engineering and the Institution of Chemical Engineers.
Appointed an executive director in October 1994 and became John Bevan 04 chief executive in May 2000.
He was previously finance director 47, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions.
of Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc, which he joined shortly before the Appointed an executive director in December 2002.
He joined BOC demerger from BAT Industries p. l. c. in 1990.
Prior to that he had in 1978 as a graduate in the Australian gases business and has held been finance director of GEC Plessey Telecommunications Ltd since various positions in general management in Australia, Korea, Thailand its formation in 1988.
He is a non-executive director of International and the UK.
He was formerly chief executive Asia.
He has a degree Power plc and Schlumberger Ltd. in commerce marketing from the University of New South Wales.
Julie Baddeley 03 Andrew Bonfield 05 53, non-executive director.
She was an executive director of Woolwich plc Appointed in July 2003.
He is senior vice-president and chief financial until October 2000, responsible for e-commerce, information officer of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
He qualified as a chartered technology and human resources, and was previously head of change accountant in South Africa, working for Price Waterhouse, before management for Maritime Region, Accenture.
She is a non-executive joining SmithKline Beecham in 1990 and rising to become chief financial director of the Yorkshire Building Society, the Government Pensions officer in 1999.
He joined BG Group plc in 2001 as executive director, Group and director of four venture capital trusts.
She is also an finance, before assuming his current role at Bristol-Myers Squibb Associate Fellow of Templeton College, Oxford and a Companion of Company in September 2002. the Institute of Management.
She has an MA honours degree in zoology from Oxford University.
He was chairman of European investment banking at Merrill Lynch until 2003.
Before joining Merrill Lynch in 1995 he held senior positions in Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
He is a partner in Tricorn, an independent corporate advisory business that he co-founded in 2003, and he is also a non-executive director of Boots Group PLC.
01 02 03 04 05 06 26 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Board of directors Ren Mdori 07 47, group finance director.
Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
He joined BOC in 1987 and has held several finance appointments in the Group.
He was appointed finance director of BOCs gases business in the Americas in 1997.
Before joining BOC, he worked for Accenture and Schlumberger Ltd.
He is a non-executive director of Scottish & Southern Energy plc.
He is a finance graduate of the Universit fide Paris-Dauphine and has a doctorate degree in economics.
Matthew Miau 08 Anne Quinn CBE 11 58, non-executive director.
He is chairman of MiTAC-Synnex Group, Appointed in May 2004.
She is group vice president of BPs gas, one of Taiwans leading high-tech industrial groups.
He is also a power and renewables business.
Previously she was managing director Convenor of Civil Advisory Committee of National Information and of BP Gas Marketing Ltd, managing director of Alliance Gas Ltd and an Communications Initiatives NICI and on the Board of Directors of executive with Standard Oil of Ohio.
She serves on the Presidents the Institute for Information Industry III, Taiwan.
He obtained a BS Advisory Committee to the Sloan School, Massachusetts Institute in electronic engineering and computer science from U. C. Berkeley, of Technology.
an MBA from Santa Clara University and holds an honorary doctorate degree from the National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan.
Dr Raj Rajagopal 12 51, chief executive, BOC Edwards.
Iain Napier 09 Appointed an executive director in July 2000.
He joined BOC in 1981 55, non-executive director.
and has held several positions in BOC Edwards including manufacturing Appointed in May 2004.
He is chief executive of Taylor Woodrow plc systems manager, director of manufacturing and managing director, and a non-executive director of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
being appointed chief executive in 1998.
He was appointed a Previously, he was chief executive of Bass Brewers, a director of non-executive director of FSI International Inc in January 2001 and in Bass plc and a member of the executive management committee of June 2004 he joined the board of the business support organisation, Interbrew SA.
He was appointed to The Council of Science and Technology in March 2004.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Sir Christopher ODonnell 10 Engineers as well as the Institution of Mechanical Engineers, the 58, non-executive director.
Institution of Electrical Engineers and the Chartered Management Appointed in March 2001.
He is chief executive of Smith & Nephew Institute.
He has an MSc in manufacturing technology and a PhD in plc.
Previously he held senior positions with Davy Ashmore, Vickers mechanical engineering both from Manchester University and an Limited and C R Bard Inc.
He has an honours degree in mechanical honorary degree from Cranfield University received in May 2004. engineering from Imperial College, London and an MBA from the He was awarded the Sir Eric Mensforth Manufacturing Gold Medal London Business School.
He is a chartered engineer and a member of in March 2003. the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
John Walsh 13 49, chief executive, Industrial and Special Products.
Appointed an executive director in July 2001.
He was previously president, Process Gas Solutions, north America.
He joined BOC in 1986 as vice president, special gases and has held various senior management positions in the Group, including president, BOC Process 07 08 09 Plants.
He has a BA in economics from Harvard College and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
12 13 10 11 Board committees Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Pensions committee Executive management board Investment committee 27 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT BOARD John Bevan 01 Kent Masters 07 47, chief executive, Process Gas Solutions since January 2003.
43, president, Process Gas Solutions, north America, since July 2001.
Appointed to the executive management board in June 2000.
Appointed to the executive management board in December 2002.
See page 26 for biographical details.
He joined BOC in 1985 and has held positions of increasing responsibility in engineering, marketing and general management, most Nick Deeming 02 recently, president, BOC Process Plants.
He holds an engineering 50, group legal director and company secretary since May 2001. degree from Georgia Institute of Technology and an MBA from Appointed to the executive management board in May 2001.
He has New Y ork University.
over 17 years in-house counsel experience, including Schlumberger SEMA and Axa PPP Healthcare, specialising in corporate and Ren Mdori 08 commercial law.
He has a degree in law from Guildhall University, an 47, group finance director since June 2000.
MBA from Cranfield University and qualified as a solicitor in 1980.
See page 27 for biographical details.
Stephen Dempsey 03 53, group director, corporate relations since February 1999.
Mark Nichols 09 Appointed to the executive management board in October 1999.
47, group director, business development since January 2004.
He joined BOC in 1990 as director of marketing services for the UK Appointed to the executive management board in January 2004. gases business and has held various communications roles in the Group.
He joined BOC in February 1988 and held senior financial roles in the He has an MA in geography from Oxford University and an MBA from UK and US before moving into general management, most recently as Cranfield University.
managing director, Industrial and Special Products, East Asia.
Before joining BOC he worked for Total Oil and Merck.
He is a Fellow of the Peter Dew 04 Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
44, group director, information management since February 1998.
Appointed to the executive management board in October 1999.
Dr Raj Rajagopal 10 He joined BOC in 1986.
He has held information technology roles in 51, chief executive, BOC Edwards since June 1998. the Groups businesses in South Africa, the UK and most recently as Appointed to the executive management board in July 1996. information management director for the Groups businesses in See page 27 for biographical details.
John Walsh 11 Tony Isaac 05 49, chief executive, Industrial and Special Products since June 2001.
Appointed to the executive management board in July 1996.
Rob Lourey 06 47, group human resources director since June 2000.
He joined BOC in Australia in 1996 and most recently was human resources director for Asia Pacific.
Since October 2003 he has been a non-executive director of Michael Page International PLC.
He has a 01 02 03 bachelor of business degree in personnel management.
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 28 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE FOLLOWING PAGES CONTAIN SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE BOC GROUP plc FOR THE YEAR.
ALL OF THE INFORMATION HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM THE FULL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS.
THESE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BY DEFINITION DO NOT PRESENT THE DETAIL THAT IS INCLUDED IN THE FULL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS AND WHICH WOULD PERMIT A COMPREHENSIVE ANALYSIS OF THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE.
REGISTERED SHAREHOLDERS CAN OBTAIN A COPY OF THE FULL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FREE OF CHARGE OR CHOOSE TO RECEIVE IT IN FUTURE YEARS BY WRITING TO LLOYDS TSB REGISTRARS AT THE ADDRESS ON PAGE 40.
CONTENTS 30 Report of the directors 31 Independent auditors statement 32 Directors remuneration 35 Group profit and loss account 36 Group balance sheet 37 Group cash flow statement 37 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 38 Notes to the financial statements 40 Shareholder information 29 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The summary financial statements comprise the profit and loss Dividends account, balance sheet, cash flow statement and notes to the financial Two dividends were paid in 2004.
A first interim dividend of 15.5p statements.
Together they show the financial performance of the per share was paid in February and a second interim dividend of Group in 2004 and trends over a three-year period.
A report on 24.5p per share was paid in August.
A first interim dividend of directors remuneration is also included.
15.9p per share has been declared for payment on 1 February 2005 and participation in the dividend reinvestment plan will be available Business review to shareholders whose applications have been received by Lloyds TSB A review of the Groups business activities and their performance Registrars by 11 January 2005. can be found on pages 20 to 23.
The report of the directors deals with other issues that the board and management regard as important Corporate governance to the conduct of the companys affairs.
The BOC Group is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an essential part of Employment policies this commitment, the board supports the highest standards of BOCs employment policies are designed to underpin the Groups corporate governance.
operating requirements and growth strategies.
Where practicable, The board has applied the principles contained in Section 1 of the policies are adapted to meet local requirements.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance appended to the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and has complied throughout the year Communication and involvement BOC places a high priority on with the provisions set out therein as they applied to the company.
communicating with its people and has invested in web-based In 2003 the Combined Code on Corporate Governance was communications technology to convey consistent and coherent revised with the new code taking effect for reporting years beginning messages to employees around the world.
Although BOC is not required to Resourcing, training and development Programmes are designed to report on how it has applied the principles of the revised code until ensure that the Group has a pool of well-qualified, gifted individuals 2005, the company has a strict policy of reviewing its corporate able to meet both its day-to-day operational needs and its plans for governance procedures and has implemented changes as considered the future.
appropriate such that at this time BOC is substantially in compliance with the provisions of the new code.
Reward and recognition Reward and recognition programmes are In November 2003, the SEC approved changes to the listing designed to endorse outstanding individual and team performance.
standards of the New York Stock Exchange NYSE related to the Retirement benefit plans BOC fully supports its peoples efforts to corporate governance practices of listed companies.
BOC, as a foreign provide for their retirement and provides a range of opportunities for private issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the NYSE, is them to participate in programmes tailored to suit local conditions.
required to comply with certain of these rules and must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from Employee share schemes Employees are encouraged to share the those followed by US domestic companies under the NYSE listing financial benefits of the Groups success through a number of option standards.
At this time, BOC does not believe that there are any and incentive schemes.
significant differences in the corporate governance practices followed Diversity BOC values the diversity of its workforce and is committed by the company, as compared to those followed by US domestic to maintaining a workplace free from discrimination for reasons of race, companies, except that the membership of the nomination committee creed, culture, nationality, gender, sexual orientation or marital status.
is not composed entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The membership of the nomination committee is however in line with Safety, health and environment the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which permits BOC operates in a hazardous industry and the safety of all membership of this committee to be composed of a majority of those associated with our business is our highest priority.
Hazards encountered by our employees include flammable and toxic gases and operations involving high pressures and extreme Risk management and internal control The board of directors has temperatures.
The movement of product is central to all our overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and businesses, involving exposure to hazards associated with driving, internal controls.
The Group has traditionally The BOC risk management programme assists management measured its safety performance against a set of reactive or lagging throughout the Group to identify, assess and mitigate business risk.
indicators, such as lost workday cases, and has additionally recently During 2004 approximately 100 risk workshops or reviews have been introduced a set of predictive, or leading, indicators.
The output from each assessment is a set of prioritised BOC has an on-line environmental survey gathering data from risks with associated action plans.
A report to the board is made twice all its sites as part of a comprehensive environmental programme.
a year of the key risks facing the Group and actions to manage these BOC aims to minimise the environmental impact from its sites and key risks.
to comply fully with all material environmental laws and regulations.
The directors have delegated to executive management the BOC also contributes a variety of products and technologies to establishment and implementation of a system of internal controls.
meet the environmental needs of its customers.
The internal control system is monitored and supported by an internal audit function that operates on a global basis and reports its results to Supplier payment policy management and the audit committee of the board.
The system is The Group applies a policy of agreeing and clearly communicating the rigorous and designed to ensure that directors maintain full and terms of payment as part of the commercial arrangements negotiated effective control over all significant strategic, financial, organisational and with suppliers and then paying according to those terms.
the UK-based businesses have committed to the Better Payment Having reviewed its effectiveness, the directors are not aware Practice Code.
of anything in the Groups system of internal controls during the period covered by this report which would render them ineffective.
Corporate donations The Group made donations of 840,000, of which 288,000 went The board and committees A complete list of the companys to UK-registered charities.
310,000 was used to support The BOC directors, with their biographies, photographs, and board committee Foundation for the Environment.
As in previous years, no political memberships can be found on pages 26 and 27.
A summary and donations were made in the European Union.
explanation of their remuneration is given on pages 32 to 34.
30 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Report of the directors Pensions committee The pensions committee meets twice a year and Board committees oversees the review of governance and control procedures applying Audit committee The audit committee meets four times a year, the to all employee retirement benefit plans and reviews and makes agendas being organised around the companys financial reporting recommendations on the investment policies and strategies applied to cycle.
Time is set aside at one of these meetings for the committee to the Groups retirement benefit plans.
The committee comprises two meet with the internal and the external auditors separately without independent non-executive directors, the chairman, chief executive and the executive management present.
The committee reviews the Group finance director.
The committee is chaired by Julie Baddeley.
effectiveness of internal controls, matters raised by the internal and external auditors in their regular reports to the committee and the Executive management board The executive management board quarterly financial statements prior to their release as well as the meets regularly having primary authority for the day-to-day arrangements by which staff of the Group may, in confidence, raise management of the Groups operations and policy implementation concerns.
The committee also ensures that an appropriate relationship pursuant to the Groups strategy agreed by the board.
The committee between BOC and the external auditors is maintained and reviews the comprises the chief executive, the other executive directors and policies and procedures in place to ensure the independence and certain senior managers and is chaired by Tony Isaac.
Further details objectivity of the audit.
The committee comprises only independent are given on page 28. non-executive directors and is chaired by Sir Christopher ODonnell.
Investment committee The investment committee meets regularly Nomination committee The nomination committee meets periodically and reviews and approves Group commitments up to 25 million as as required but at least annually.
During 2004 the committee met six delegated by the board.
Group commitments over 25 million are times.
The committee primarily monitors the composition and balance presented to the board for approval on recommendation from the of the board and its committees and identifies and recommends to the committee.
The committee comprises the chief executive, the other board the appointment of new directors.
The committee also keeps executive directors and certain senior managers and is chaired by under review the board committee structure and composition and Tony Isaac.
makes recommendations to the board of any changes considered necessary.
All independent non-executive directors, the chairman Auditors and the chief executive serve as members of this committee.
The auditors report on the full financial statements was unqualified The committee is chaired by Rob Margetts.
Whilst the chairman and did not contain any statement concerning accounting records or of the board chairs this committee he is not permitted to chair failure to obtain necessary information or explanations.
meetings when the appointment of his successor is being reviewed.
By order of the board Remuneration committee The remuneration committee meets six times a year.
The committee recommends to the board the policy Nick Deeming on executive directors remuneration and the specific remuneration, Company Secretary benefits and terms of employment of each executive director.
22 November 2004 The committee comprises only independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Julie Baddeley.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT To the members of The BOC Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement of The BOC Basis of opinion Group plc and the amounts disclosed relating to directors We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The remuneration in the directors remuneration statement.
auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review and Opinion summary financial statements in accordance with applicable law.
In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency the annual financial statements, the directors report and the directors of the summary financial statement within the annual review and remuneration report of The BOC Group plc for the year ended summary financial statements with the annual financial statements, 30 September 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements the directors report and the directors remuneration report and its of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the made thereunder.
United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made  LLP thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors annual review and summary financial statements and consider the London implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent 22 November 2004 misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
The maintenance and integrity of the companys website is the This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our other jurisdictions.
31 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The report below is a summary of the directors remuneration report.
Variable compensation plan VCP The executive directors and senior The full report setting out the composition of the remuneration management participate in the variable compensation bonus plan.
committee, the remuneration policy, together with full details of the The plan focuses on annual objectives and links individual performance directors emoluments, pensions, share options and shareholdings, is with business plans.
The financial targets for the executive directors and contained within the report and accounts 2004 on pages 64 to 75. other executive management board members are set on an annual Copies of the full directors remuneration report can be obtained, basis by the remuneration committee and performance against free of charge, from BOC or may be viewed on, or downloaded from, these targets is reviewed by the remuneration committee on a BOCs website, www.
The remuneration committee considers that a six monthly review acts as a significant incentive and is conducive to The remuneration committee sustaining performance throughout the year.
The financial targets are The remuneration committee comprises all the independent based equally on adjusted earnings per share EPS and adjusted non-executive directors.
It sets the overall remuneration policy of the return on capital employed ROCE at Group level.
Adjusted means Group and makes recommendations to the board on the framework excluding exceptional items.
Bonuses are assessed two-thirds on these of executive remuneration.
Specifically, the financial targets with the remaining third based on personal objectives.
remuneration committee determines, on behalf of the board, the These are based on BOCs strategic priorities and include safety, detailed terms of service of the executive directors and other growth, people and change management and productivity.
Performance members of the executive management team including basic salary, is measured against key performance indicators determined during performance-related bonus arrangements, benefits in kind, long-term formal appraisals.
There is a threshold performance level below incentives and pension benefits.
The remuneration committee also which no bonus is paid.
For 2004 the financial targets set by the reviews the remuneration of the chairman, following a recommendation remuneration committee were EPS 56.2p and ROCE 13.3 per cent from the chief executive and the senior independent director.
and the achievement against these targets was EPS 63.2p and ROCE The board as a whole determines the non-executive directors fees.
The remuneration committee agreed that the maximum bonus payable would be 100 per cent of salary.
Non-executive directors Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three year term Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Executive directors, members after which, whilst not automatic, their appointment may be extended of the executive management board and a number of other key for a second term subject to mutual agreement and shareholder executives selected from the companys global operations participate approval.
The fees are set at a level which will attract individuals with in the LTIP.
The remuneration committee has the discretion to grant the necessary experience and ability to make a significant contribution awards up to a maximum of two times salary.
The award made in to The BOC Groups affairs and are benchmarked with those fees paid February 2004 to the chief executive was based on 1.9 times salary by other UK listed companies.
The non-executive directors do not and for other board directors 1.5 times salary.
There are three have contracts of service nor do they participate in the Groups performance conditions: total shareholder return TSR, adjusted variable compensation arrangements, its long-term incentive earnings per share EPS and adjusted return on capital employed arrangements or its pension arrangements, nor do they receive any ROCE.
Up to one-third of the award could vest in respect of each benefits in kind.
The TSR performance condition compares BOCs TSR Remuneration policy performance with two separate comparator groups, a UK comparator BOCs remuneration policy for executive directors and other executive group comprising 31 industrial and manufacturing companies and a management is designed to attract and retain executives of the highest global industrial gases group of six leading companies as follows: calibre so that the Group is managed successfully to the benefit of UK group its stakeholders.
In setting remuneration levels the remuneration committee takes into account the remuneration practices found Aggregate Industries Hanson Rolls-Royce in other UK listed companies of similar size, internationality and AMEC IMI Scottish & Southern complexity.
The policy is to pay salaries and total remuneration Anglo American ICI Energy around mid-market levels for on target performance and to provide AWG International Power Scottish Power the opportunity, via annual and long-term incentives, for executives BAE Systems Invensys Severn Trent to be rewarded at the 75th percentile if this is justified by the BG Group Johnson Matthey Shell Transport achievement of top of the range performance goals.
It is the BHP Billiton Kelda Group & Trading view of the remuneration committee that performance-related BP National Grid Smiths Group remuneration should form a substantial element of total remuneration.
BPB Transco Tomkins Based on assumptions about expected values for awards from the Centrica Pilkington United Utilities Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Executive Share Option Scheme Corus Group Rio Tinto ESOS, the proportion of performance-related remuneration to fixed FKI RMC Group remuneration excluding pensions and benefits in kind for current arrangements is approximately 60 per cent.
Global gases group Airgas US S&P 500 Index Remuneration components Air Liquide France CAC 40 Index Basic salary Salaries for executive directors and executive Air Products & Chemicals US S&P 500 Index management board members are based on median market rates Linde Germany DAX 30 Index drawn from market data provided by Towers Perrin and take account Nippon Sanso Japan NIKKEI 225 Index of an executives experience, responsibilities and performance.
Praxair US S&P 500 Index Performance is assessed both from an individual and business When determining BOCs performance relative to the global gases perspective.
Executive salaries are reviewed annually by the group, the TSR for BOC and the comparator companies will be remuneration committee.
Remuneration for those executives of adjusted adjusted TSR so that it reflects the excess or shortfall in businesses outside the UK is denominated in the local currency.
returns relative to the local stockmarket index where each company has its primary listing.
The nationality and the local stockmarket index that will be used to calculate the adjusted TSR for each company is shown in the parentheses.
32 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Directors remuneration For the award made in February 2004 which will vest in February the extension to be a fair and reasonable basis for assessing the 2007 the target set by the remuneration committee is such that if the sustained underlying performance of the company.
The remuneration companys TSR position measured over a three year period is median committee considers this performance condition to be a challenging in respect of both comparator groups, then 40 per cent of the shares performance hurdle when compared to the companys adjusted EPS in respect of the TSR part of the award will vest.
If the companys TSR compound annual growth rate before exceptional items over the last position is upper quartile all of the shares in respect of the TSR part ten years of around four per cent.
Awards under the LTIP and ESOS of the award will vest.
If the TSR performance is between the median 2003 are not pensionable.
and upper quartile a proportion of between 40 per cent and all Savings Related Share Option Schemes of the shares in respect of the TSR part of the award will vest.
If the These are operated in the UK, Australia, New Zealand and Ireland, and companys TSR position is below the median for both comparator are open to all employees including executive directors with one years groups the TSR part of the award will lapse.
The same TSR service or more.
The UK scheme is approved by the Inland Revenue.
performance criteria was used for the award made in February 2003.
The current schemes are due to expire in 2005 and a proposal to The adjusted EPS performance condition is based on the adopt new schemes is to be put to shareholders at the Annual companys EPS relative to three year targets on a sliding performance General Meeting in January 2005. scale.
For the award made in February 2004 which will vest in February 2007 the target set by the remuneration committee is 60.3p TSR performance at the end of the three year performance period for minimum vesting.
Percentage If this is achieved 40 per cent of the shares in respect of the EPS part 20 of the award will vest.
All of the shares in respect of the EPS part of 10 the award will vest if the company achieves 69.3p at the end of the three year performance period.
If the EPS performance is between 0 60.3p and 69.3p a proportion of between 40 per cent and all of the 10 shares in respect of the EPS part of the award will vest.
If EPS is less 20 than 60.3p over the three year period the EPS part of the award will 30 lapse.
The EPS targets for the award made in February 2003 were 40 64.7p for minimum vesting and 74.4p for full vesting.
50 The adjusted ROCE performance condition is based on the companys ROCE relative to three year targets on a sliding Oct-99 Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03 Oct-04 performance scale.
The minimum target set by the remuneration BOC FTSE100 committee for the award made in February 2004 which will vest in February 2007, is 13.5 per cent at the end of the three year The graph above has been included to meet the requirement set out performance period.
If this is achieved 40 per cent of the shares in in the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
It shows respect of the ROCE part of the award will vest.
All of the shares in BOCs total shareholder return TSR performance, assuming dividends respect of the ROCE part of the award will vest if the company are reinvested, compared with all FTSE100 companies.
This has been achieves a ROCE of 15 per cent.
If the ROCE performance chosen because it provides a basis for comparison against companies is between 13.5 per cent and 15 per cent a proportion of between in a relevant, broad based equity index of which BOC is a constituent 40 per cent and all of the shares in respect of the ROCE part of the member.
The remuneration committee decided that other comparator award will vest.
If the ROCE is less than 13.5 per cent the ROCE part groups were more appropriate as performance measurement for the of the award will lapse.
The ROCE targets for the award made LTIP.
A graph showing BOCs TSR performance compared with the six in February 2003 were 13.0 per cent for minimum vesting and major gases companies relative to respective local indices, which is one 14.5 per cent for full vesting.
of the comparator groups chosen for the LTIP, is shown in the In setting three performance conditions for the LTIP award, the chairmans statement on page 5.
The October 1999 position reflects remuneration committee took the view that these were the most the premium arising from the pre-conditional cash offer of 14.60 per important measures that drive or measure sustainable improvements share made jointly by Air Liquide and Air Products.
in shareholder value: the TSR performance condition measures comparative performance while EPS and ROCE reflect a core part Remuneration proposals of the companys business strategy, which is to improve both earnings During the year the remuneration committee reviewed the growth and capital efficiency.
performance-related elements of the executive remuneration package and decided that it was necessary to make a number of changes.
Executive Share Option Scheme 2003 ESOS 2003 Executive In considering the current package and possible changes, the directors, members of the executive management board and remuneration committee was concerned more with the effectiveness other selected middle and senior management throughout the of some of the arrangements rather than their level.
As stated the companys global operations currently participate in the ESOS 2003. policy is to pay salaries and total remuneration around mid-market The remuneration committee has the discretion to grant awards up to levels for on target performance and to provide the opportunity, a maximum of two times salary.
The awards made in November 2003 via annual and long-term incentives, to reward executives at the to the chief executive and other members of the board were based 75th percentile if this is justified by the achievement of stretching on one times salary.
The performance condition set for the ESOS 2003 performance goals.
There is no intention to change this policy.
by the remuneration committee is that the growth in the adjusted The proposed changes are intended to make the reward package EPS over a three year performance period must be equal to or more effective.
It will increase the expected value of the total package greater than the growth in the UK retail prices index RPI plus for the achievement of stretching performance goals.
The proposed three per cent per annum over the three year performance period.
changes also enhance the retention value of our remuneration The performance is assessed on the companys published results.
The remuneration committee believes that the annual If the performance condition is satisfied at the end of the performance bonus plan VCP and the LTIP are effective and do focus attention period then the awards would be exercisable in full.
In line with on the main drivers of BOCs performance, particularly ROCE and current corporate governance best practice there is no rolling earnings growth.
There is also alignment with shareholder interests re-testing of performance.
In the event that the performance via the TSR element of the LTIP and the fact that awards under the condition is not satisfied over the original three year period then the LTIP are delivered in shares.
However, the remuneration committee remuneration committee has the discretion to re-test performance has become concerned about the efficiency and effectiveness after five years, but only where the remuneration committee believes 33 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Directors remuneration of the Executive Share Option Scheme.
Being totally dependent upon executives will then receive an additional number of shares equal to stockmarket movements share options can generate a range of the value of dividends paid during the deferral period on these shares: rewards from large to zero with variable motivational or retention executives may also receive a matching share award of up value.
The remuneration committee is also concerned that the dilution to 100 per cent of the number of shares originally allotted.
impact of options is inefficient from a shareholder standpoint.
The percentage award will depend on BOCs performance over the deferral period.
Adjusted EPS will account for 75 per cent of For the reasons outlined above the remuneration committee the performance weighting with TSR accounting for the remaining proposes: 25 per cent: to cease making option awards under the Executive Share Option the adjusted EPS performance condition is based upon the Scheme ESOS to the executive directors and other executives companys EPS relative to three year targets.
These targets will be covered by the VCP.
However, the ESOS will be kept in place for the on a sliding scale, where a five per cent per annum growth rate over time being for employees below this level until an alternative scheme three years is required for the minimum award of 25 per cent of can be developed in the near future.
The facility will also be kept to that portion.
The maximum award will be achieved if EPS growth is make option awards to executives who are covered by VCP on an 12 per cent per annum over the three year period: exceptional basis, for example as part of a hiring package.
There is the TSR performance condition compares BOCs TSR performance however no intention to make any further awards to existing against the same UK comparator group as used for the LTIP.
Awards executive directors: will vest for this portion where BOCs TSR position is at median, to increase the target and maximum value of the VCP to measured over three years.
At this point, 25 per cent of this portion 110 per cent and 160 per cent respectively of salary and at the of the award will vest.
A maximum award of 25 per cent overall will same time introduce a deferred, share-matching plan compulsorily vest if the company is ranked at or above the upper quartile.
deferring one-third of the VCP bonus see details below.
The current target value of the VCP is 73.4 per cent and the plan As previously stated, it is the view of the remuneration committee that is capped at 100 per cent: performance-related remuneration should form a substantial element to seek approval to increase the maximum award levels to be of total remuneration.
The effect of these proposals would lead to a made under the LTIP from 200 per cent to 250 per cent of salary.
shift in the balance of variable performance-related remuneration to The remuneration committees purpose in seeking approval for fixed remuneration.
a higher maximum is simply to give flexibility to remain fully Service contracts competitive in the event that a higher level of award is required The companys policy is for all executive directors to have contracts for an appointment to an executive role.
In the immediate term, of employment that terminate on the attainment of retirement age.
however, this change would have little practical impact as the In order to mitigate its liability on early termination, the companys intention next year is simply to increase the chief executives policy is that it should be able to terminate such contracts on no conditional share award from 1.9 times salary to 2.0 times and to more than 12 months notice, and that payments on termination are make no increase to the 1.5 times salary award received by other restricted to the value of salary, car benefit and bonus entitlement directors last year.
calculated on the basis of the average of actual payments over the Share Matching Plan preceding two years for the unexpired portion of the notice period.
The main features of the proposed Share Matching Plan are Pensions as follows: During the year, four directors accrued benefits under the defined at the same time that the VCP opportunity is increased, one-third benefit schemes operated by the company.
Contributions amounting of any VCP award an amount equivalent to the increase will be to 283,000 were paid by the company to money purchase plans in compulsorily applied to the acquisition of BOC shares: respect of two directors.
Includes overseas and relocation expenses.
The allowances and benefits of Mr Mdori include a salary supplement of 103,600 in respect of the pensions earnings cap.
Total fees for non-executive directors services in the year were 499,000.
Included in this amount were the chairmans fees of 225,000.
Total directors remuneration in 2004 was 6.9 million compared with 7.1 million in 2003.
34 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT Years ended 30 September 2004 2003 2002 Before After Before After Before After exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional exceptional items items items items items items items items items million million million million million million million million million Turnover, including share of joint ventures and associates 4,599.3 4,599.3 4,323.2 4,323.2 4,017.9 4,017.9 Less: Share of turnover of joint ventures 647.0 647.0 544.3 544.3 324.1 324.1 Share of turnover of associates 66.9 66.9 60.6 60.6 36.1 36.1 Turnover of subsidiary undertakings 3,885.4 3,885.4 3,718.3 3,718.3 3,657.7 3,657.7 Operating profit of subsidiary undertakings 464.4 14.8 449.6 407.4 60.2 347.2 425.6 74.0 351.6 Share of operating profit of joint ventures 99.4 2.6 96.8 86.8 6.8 80.0 63.8 0.5 63.3 Share of operating profit of associates 13.1 13.1 11.4 11.4 10.7 10.7 Total operating profit including share of joint ventures and associates 576.9 17.4 559.5 505.6 67.0 438.6 500.1 74.5 425.6 Loss on termination disposal of businesses continuing operations 79.5 79.5 20.2 20.2 Profit on disposal of fixed assets continuing operations 4.9 4.9 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 576.9 92.0 484.9 505.6 67.0 438.6 500.1 94.7 405.4 Interest on net debt 88.4 88.4 96.1 96.1 103.1 103.1 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 117.4 117.4 110.2 110.2 106.1 106.1 Expected return on pension scheme assets 133.2 133.2 119.6 119.6 139.1 139.1 Other net financing income 15.8 15.8 9.4 9.4 33.0 33.0 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 504.3 92.0 412.3 418.9 67.0 351.9 430.0 94.7 335.3 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 146.2 44.5 101.7 121.4 25.0 96.4 129.0 22.8 106.2 Profit on ordinary activities after tax 358.1 47.5 310.6 297.5 42.0 255.5 301.0 71.9 229.1 Minority interests equity 46.6 46.6 36.8 0.4 36.4 26.7 0.5 26.2 Profit for the financial year 311.5 47.5 264.0 260.7 41.6 219.1 274.3 71.4 202.9 Dividends 197.3 197.3 192.1 192.1 186.6 186.6 Retained profit for the financial year 114.2 47.5 66.7 68.6 41.6 27.0 87.7 71.4 16.3 Earnings per 25p Ordinary share basic 63.2p 9.7 p 53.5p 52.9p 8.4 p 44.5p 55.9p 14.5 p 41.4p diluted 63.1p 9.6 p 53.5p 52.9p 8.4 p 44.5p 55.7p 14.5 p 41.2p All turnover and operating profit arose from continuing operations.
35 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 GROUP BALANCE SHEET At 30 September 2003 2002 2004 restated restated million million million Fixed assets Intangible assets 174.9 206.1 150.7 Tangible assets 2,618.4 2,913.4 3,027.4 Investment in joint ventures 458.0 505.3 317.3 Investment in associates 55.7 64.5 63.7 Other investments 34.5 38.8 45.1 3,341.5 3,728.1 3,604.2 Current assets 1,255.3 1,104.9 1,246.4 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,134.7 1,168.2 1,247.9 Net current assets liabilities 120.6 63.3 1.5 Total assets less current liabilities 3,462.1 3,664.8 3,602.7 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 963.2 1,133.1 1,179.0 Provisions for liabilities and charges 345.2 376.6 407.5 Total net assets excluding pension assets and liabilities 2,153.7 2,155.1 2,016.2 Pension assets 68.9 50.7 54.3 Pension liabilities 344.5 341.8 311.0 Total net assets including pension assets and liabilities 1,878.1 1,864.0 1,759.5 Equity shareholders funds 1,675.3 1,686.7 1,641.6 Minority shareholders interests 202.8 177.3 117.9 Total capital and reserves 1,878.1 1,864.0 1,759.5 Significant accounting ratios 2003 2002 2004 restated restated 1 Return on capital employed % 14.9 10.9 10.6 1, 2 Adjusted return on capital employed % 15.4 12.6 12.5 Interest cover times 6.3 4.6 4.1 2 Adjusted interest cover times 6.5 5.3 4.9 Net debt equity % 51.2 73.4 75.3 Net debt capital employed % 29.9 37.4 37.3 1.
Operating profit as a percentage of the average capital employed excluding net pension liabilities.
Capital employed comprises total capital and reserves, long-term liabilities and all current borrowings, net of cash and deposits.
The average is calculated on a monthly basis.
The summary financial statements on pages 35 to 39 were approved by the board of directors on 22 November 2004 and are signed on its behalf by: A E Isaac R Mdori Director Director 36 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT Years ended 30 September 2003 2002 2004 restated restated million million million Total operating profit before exceptional items 576.9 505.6 500.1 Depreciation and amortisation 324.0 333.4 330.9 Net retirement benefits charge less contributions 15.9 5.6 49.9 Operating profit before exceptional items of joint ventures 99.4 86.8 63.8 Operating profit before exceptional items of associates 13.1 11.4 10.7 Changes in working capital and other items 2.1 18.0 20.2 Exceptional cash flows 11.9 28.3 67.3 Net cash inflow from operating activities 758.5 700.1 759.3 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 79.1 35.0 33.9 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 91.2 94.4 90.7 Tax paid 98.2 90.7 96.2 Capital expenditure and financial investment 204.2 227.0 335.1 Acquisitions and disposals 92.5 118.3 215.5 Equity dividends paid 197.3 192.1 186.6 Net cash inflow outflow before use of liquid resources and financing 339.2 12.6 130.9 Management of liquid resources 20.8 16.2 52.6 Net cash outflow inflow from financing 168.3 131.3 99.7 Increase decrease in cash 150.1 102.5 21.4 RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT 2003 2002 2004 restated restated million million million Net debt at 1 October 1,368.1 1,325.6 1,272.1 Net cash inflow outflow 339.2 12.6 130.9 Issue of shares 12.4 2.6 35.6 Net borrowings assumed at acquisition 4.7 0.8 0.5 Net liquid resources eliminated on disposal 31.0 Inception of finance leases 0.2 0.4 Exchange adjustment 59.0 20.7 42.7 Net debt at 30 September 962.4 1,368.1 1,325.6 37 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Basis of preparation These accounts are based on the historical cost accounting convention in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and comply with all applicable UK accounting standards.
The accounts are prepared on the going concern basis.
This means that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
The Group accounts include the accounts of the parent undertaking and of all subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiary undertakings are those businesses controlled by the Group and their results are fully included.
Joint ventures are those businesses which the Group jointly controls with one or more other parties.
Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a participating interest and exercises significant influence.
The results of businesses acquired are included from the effective date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions during the year the difference between the fair value of the purchase price of a business and the fair value of the net assets acquired is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Exchange rates The majority of the Groups operations are located outside the UK and operate in currencies other than sterling.
Profit and loss and other period statements of the Groups overseas operations are translated at average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
The rates of exchange to sterling for the currencies which have principally affected the Groups results were: 2004 2003 2002 Average for the year: US dollar 1.79 1.60 1.47 Australian dollar 2.47 2.62 2.77 Japanese yen 195.17 191.01 184.34 South African rand 11.85 13.24 15.64 At 30 September: US dollar 1.81 1.66 1.57 Australian dollar 2.50 2.45 2.89 Japanese yen 199.44 185.60 191.45 South African rand 11.72 11.57 16.58 3.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings Group companies are parties to various legal proceedings, including some in which claims for damages in large amounts have been asserted.
The outcome of litigation to which Group companies are party cannot be readily foreseen, but the directors believe that such litigation should be disposed of without material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or profitability.
Welding fumes litigation A US subsidiary of the Group, The BOC Group, Inc. has been named in US lawsuits alleging injury from exposure to welding fumes.
Certain of these cases have been either filed in, or transferred for pre-trial purposes to, the federal district court in the Northern District of Ohio, where a multi-district litigation MDL proceeding has been commenced.
The MDL proceeding is a vehicle for coordinating pre-trial proceedings in cases pending in different federal district courts in the US.
It is currently contemplated that the MDL court will try three cases during the MDL proceeding.
The first such case is currently scheduled for mid 2005.
In addition to the cases in federal court, The BOC Group, Inc. is a defendant in a number of similar cases pending in state courts.
These cases are in different stages of procedural development, and certain cases are scheduled for trial from time to time.
38 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Notes to the financial statements 4.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings continued From the time Airco was purchased in 1978 until 2003 The BOC Group, Inc. had never had an adverse jury verdict returned against it in a case alleging injury from exposure to welding fumes.
On 28 October 2003, a jury in Madison County, Illinois, rendered a verdict against The BOC Group, Inc. and two co-defendants.
The jury awarded US$1 million to Mr Elam, a former labourer who asserted that his idiopathic Parkinsons disease was attributable to his exposure to welding fumes over a period of years.
BOC believes that the verdict is inconsistent with the decisions rendered by juries in previous cases, is not supported by the existing scientific evidence and is pursuing an appeal in the Illinois court system.
On 12 May 2004 a jury in Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania, returned a verdict against The BOC Group, Inc. and one co-defendant.
The jury awarded Mr Yencho, who alleged that his injury was caused by exposure to asbestos welding rods, US$525,000, to be divided between the defendants.
BOC believes that the jury verdict is inconsistent with the evidence introduced at trial and believes that there are strong grounds for a successful post-trial motion and, if necessary, an appeal.
The BOC Group, Inc. believes that it has strong defences to the claims asserted in these various proceedings related to alleged injury from exposure to welding fumes and intends to defend vigorously such claims.
Based on its experience to date, together with its current assessment of the merits of the claims being asserted and applicable insurance, BOC believes that continued defence and resolution of these proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or profitability and no provision has been made.
The welding electrodes business was sold in 1986 and the sale of the US packaged gas business, including the operations involved in distributing packaged gases and welding equipment, was completed in July 2004.
Fluorogas litigation In February 2003, the company was notified that a jury verdict in the US District Court for the Western District of Texas the District Court was obtained for US$132 million against Fluorogas Limited, The BOC Group, Inc. and The BOC Group plc.
The verdict arose primarily out of an alleged breach of a memorandum of understanding by Fluorogas Limited before it was acquired by The BOC Group plc in September 2001.
In March 2003, the court also awarded interest and costs against the defendants, making them jointly and severally liable for a total of US$174 million.
A bond for the full amount was posted with the District Court as part of the normal appeals process.
In August 2004, the appellate court reversed the entire judgement against the BOC entities and all but US$170,000 in reliance damages against Fluorogas Limited.
In addition, the appellate court remanded for reconsideration by the District Court an award of attorneys fees on the US$170,000 recovery.
Fluorogas Limited was placed in administration under the Insolvency Act of 1986 pursuant to an order of an English Court.
It is expected to remain in administration until the conclusion of the remand proceedings in the District Court.
ERISA litigation An action was filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of Illinois the District Court against The BOC Group Cash Balance Retirement Plan the Plan.
The plaintiffs brought this action on behalf of themselves and all others similarly affected, alleging that the Plan improperly calculated lump sum distributions from the Plan in violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act.
In November 2003, the parties reached an agreement to settle at US$69 million 43.2 million.
The settlement was approved by the District Court at a fairness hearing on 12 March 2004.
US accounting information The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
These differ in certain respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the US US GAAP.
The application of the different accounting principles results in adjustments being needed to show what the Groups profit would be under US GAAP.
The main adjustments are shown individually in the table below.
2004 2003 2002 million million million Net profit under UK GAAP 264.0 219.1 202.9 Pensions 7.5 62.5 35.4 Revaluations realised on asset disposals 1.1 5.8 Amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles 13.5 13.4 3.7 Financial instruments 15.7 2.8 19.5 Share of results of joint ventures and associates 0.3 0.6 Write-down of previously revalued assets 20.5 Unrealised profit on disposal of subsidiary 8.2 Other adjustments on profit on disposal of subsidiary 20.7 Adjustment on disposal of the US packaged gas business 39.9 Other 3.0 3.6 0.3 Taxation effect of above adjustments 14.8 20.7 24.7 Net income under US GAAP 297.7 264.3 255.4 Earnings per 25p Ordinary share Basic Profit from continuing operations and for the financial year 60.4p 53.7p 52.1p 6.
Comparative information In 2004, the Group applied UITF37 Purchases and sales of own shares and UITF38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
These deal mainly with the balance sheet accounting treatment for own shares and do not have any impact on Group earnings.
The impact on the Group balance sheet has been to reduce fixed assets and shareholders funds by 42.1 million 2003: 48.1 million, 2002: 42.5 million.
Comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
39 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Ordinary shareholdings by investor type at 30 September 2004 % Number of % Number of of total number 25p shares of ordinary accounts of accounts Type of investor million capital 31,778 75 Individuals 28.0 6 9,987 23 Institutional investors 460.6 92 957 2 Other corporate investors 10.2 2 42,722 100 498.8 100 Financial calendar 1 Ordinary Shares American Depositary Shares 12 4% Unsecured Loan Stock 2012 2017 1 First interim Second interim Half year Half year Ex-dividend 5 Jan 2005 29 Jun 2005 2 Mar 2005 31 Aug 2005 Record date 7 Jan 2005 1 Jul 2005 4 Mar 2005 2 Sep 2005 DRIP notice date 11 Jan 2005 11 Jul 2005 Payment date UK 1 Feb 2005 1 Aug 2005 2 Apr 2005 2 Oct 2005 US 8 Feb 2005 8 Aug 2005 1.
Proposed dates Three months Half year Nine months Preliminary Report and accounts Group results 1 Feb 2005 12 May 2005 2 Aug 2005 17 Nov 2005 Dec 2005 Shareholder enquiries Shareholding information Shareholders who have questions relating to the Groups business or To view up-to-date information about your shareholding, change wish to receive copies of the interim statements should write to: your address details, set up a new, or change an existing, dividend mandate, visit the Lloyds TSB Registrars shareview website at Director Investor Relations www.
co. uk The BOC Group plc The portfolio service provides access to more information on Chertsey Road, Windlesham your investments including balance movements, indicative share prices Surrey GU20 6HJ, England and details of recent dividend payments.
To register with Lloyds TSB Telephone: 01276 477222 Registrars as a user of the portfolio service and for more information E-mail: ir@boc.
com visit the website at www.
co. uk Registrar Electronic shareholder communications Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in the company such Shareholders can now elect to receive shareholder documents, as the loss of share certificates, change of address, dividend payment such as annual and interim reports and notices of general meetings, arrangements, amalgamation of multiple accounts, or requests for the electronically from the companys website rather than in hard copy full report and accounts should be sent directly to: through the mail.
This has the advantage of improving the speed of Lloyds TSB Registrars communications and reducing administrative costs of printing and The Causeway, Worthing postage.
The terms on which this electronic facility is provided can be West Sussex BN99 6DA, England found on the companys website www.
com or on request from Telephone: 0870 600 3958 the registered office.
Any shareholder wishing to take advantage of this Fax: 0870 600 3980 free service may do so by registering their details on the Lloyds TSB Teltex for shareholders with hearing difficulties: Registrars shareview website at www.
co. uk Correspondence should refer to The BOC Group plc, stating clearly the registered name and address and, if available, the full account number which starts with 0385.
40 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004 Shareholder information Dividend reinvestment plan American Depositary Shares A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP, through which Ordinary The BOC Group plc American Depositary Shares ADS are listed shareholders may invest the whole of their cash dividends in on the New York Stock Exchange and trade under the symbol BOX.
The BOC Group plc Annual review and summary financial statements 2004 The BOC Group plc Registered office: Chertsey Road, Windlesham, Annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Surrey GU20 6HJ, England Tel: 01276 477222 Fax: 01276 471333 Registered in England No.
com BOC AROUND THE WORLD 0 The BOC Group plc Annual review 2004
