80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 24 Accounting Policies ACCOUNTING CONVENTION STOCK The financial statements have been prepared under the historical Stock is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
In the case cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom of manufactured products, cost includes the attributable proportion accounting standards.
Net realisable value comprises the estimated selling price less all further costs to completion and all costs The accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the to be incurred in selling and distribution.
year and the preceding year in dealing with items that are considered material in relation to the Groups financial statements.
PENSION COSTS For dened benefit schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION account in respect of pension costs is the estimated regular cost of The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the Company providing the benets accrued in the year, adjusted to reect variations and its subsidiary undertakings, all of which are drawn up to 31 December from that cost.
For dened contribution schemes the amounts charged each year.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
are the contributions payable in the year.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are consolidated from or to the date on which control passed.
LEASES Assets held under finance leases and other similar contracts, which confer In accordance with Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 a separate rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are profit and loss account dealing with the results of the Company has capitalised as tangible xed assets and are depreciated over the shorter not been presented.
of the lease terms and their useful lives.
The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements GOODWILL are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease to Purchased goodwill arising on the acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital repayments was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition and, outstanding.
Hire purchase transactions are dealt with similarly, except that assets are depreciated over their useful lives.
as allowed by this Standard, has not been reinstated in the balance sheet.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, the attributable Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss amount of goodwill previously written off to reserves is included in account over the period of the lease.
determining the profit or loss on disposal.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Purchased goodwill arising on acquisitions since 31 December 1997 Tangible xed assets are stated at cost or valuation.
Depreciation is has been capitalised and is being amortised in equal instalments over provided on a straight line basis, to reduce the carrying value to the its estimated useful life of twenty years.
Provision is made for any estimated residual value at the point of sale, at the following annual rates: impairment.
Land nil TURNOVER Fixtures and ttings 10% to 20% Turnover represents amounts receivable for goods and services sold Plant and machinery 5% to 20% to outside customers, excluding value added tax.
Leasehold property over the period of the lease INVESTMENTS Buildings 2% Investments are held at cost less provision for impairment.
Motor vehicles 20% to 33% ASSOCIATES Residual value is calculated on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition.
In the Group financial statements investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Where material the consolidated profit and loss account includes the Groups share of associates profits less losses while the Groups share of the net assets of the associates is shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is accounted for in accordance with the policy set out above.
Any unamortised balance of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in associates.
There were no material associates in 2004.
24 Bodycote annual report 2004 80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 25 TAXATION GOVERNMENT GRANTS Current UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts Capital based government grants are included within accruals and expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that deferred income in the balance sheet and credited to the profit and loss have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
account over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets to which they relate.
Revenue based government grants are credited to Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have the profit and loss account in the period in which they are receivable.
originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a DEBT right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction date.
Timing differences are differences between the Groups taxable of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different in the period.
Finance costs of debt are recognised in the profit and from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
loss account over the term of such instruments at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits The Group uses derivatives and financial instruments to reduce from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Group does not hold or issue be deducted.
derivatives or financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge, the subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets or liabilities have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiary.
similar currencies as the hedged item and must also reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected Gains and losses arising on these contracts are deferred and recognised to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected in the profit and loss account, or as adjustments to the carrying amount to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or of xed assets, only when the hedged transaction has itself been substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured reected in the Groups accounts.
on a discounted basis to reect the time value of money over the period between the balance sheet date and the dates on which it is estimated that the underlying timing differences will reverse.
The discount rates used reect the post-tax yields to maturity that can be obtained on government bonds with similar maturity dates and currencies to those of the deferred tax assets or liabilities.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into Sterling using average rates of exchange during the year.
Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of investments in subsidiary undertakings at closing rates are taken to reserves, together with exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings which finance a proportion of foreign currency investments.
