Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General b sell relevant shares as defined in section 94 5 Meeting of Dunedin Income Growth Investment of the Act in the company at a price not Trust PLC will be held at Discovery Point, Dundee below the net asset value per share if, on Tuesday 27 April 2004 at 12 noon, for the immediately before the sale, such shares are following purposes: held by the company as treasury shares as defined in section 162A 3 of the Act ORDINARY BUSINESS treasury shares for cash as defined in 1.
To receive the reports of the directors and section 162D 2 of the Act, as if section 89 1 auditors and the accounts for the year ended of the Act did not apply to any such sale, 31 January 2004. up to an aggregate nominal amount of 9,134,816, 2.
To approve the directors report on remuneration such power to expire at the conclusion of the annual for the year ended 31 January 2004. general meeting of the company to be held in 2005, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the 3.
To re-elect Robert Douglas Miller as a director company in general meeting, provided that such of the company.
power shall be limited to the allotment of equity 4.
To re-elect John Scott as a director of the securities and the sale of treasury shares:- company.
i in connection with an offer of equity 5.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of securities open for acceptance for a period the company.
fixed by the directors of the company to the holders of ordinary shares in the share capital 6.
To authorise the directors to fix the of the company on a fixed record date in remuneration of the auditors for the year to proportion as nearly as practicable to their 31 January 2005. respective holdings of such ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other SPECIAL BUSINESS arrangements as the directors of the company To consider and, if thought fit, pass the may consider necessary or expedient to deal following resolutions as special resolutions: with legal problems under or resulting from the application or apparent application of Special resolutions the laws of any territory or the requirements 7.
That, in substitution for any existing power under of any regulatory body or any stock section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, exchange in any territory or in connection but without prejudice to the exercise of any such with fractional entitlements or otherwise power prior to the date hereof, the directors of the howsoever : and company be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to section 95 1 of the Act, to:- ii other than pursuant to sub-paragraph i of this resolution, up to an aggregate nominal a allot equity securities as defined in section amount of 2,000,634: 94 2 of the Act for cash at a price not below the net asset value per share pursuant save that the company may, at any time prior to the to the authority under section 80 of the Act expiry of such power, make an offer or enter into an conferred on the directors of the company agreement which would or might require equity and contained in resolution 6 of the securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold company passed at the companys annual after the expiry of such power and the directors of general meeting held on 23 April 2002 as if the company may allot equity securities or sell section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer or such allotment: and agreement as if such power had not expired.
PAGE 38 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notice of Meeting 8.
That, in substitution for any existing authority otherwise, of any resolution of the Company in under section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 general meeting passed pursuant thereto and of the Act, the company be and is hereby these Articles the Directors shall have generally and unconditionally authorised, in unconditional authority:- accordance with section 166 of the Act, to make i to allot with or without conferring a right of market purchases within the meaning of section renunciation, grant options over, offer or 163 3 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares otherwise deal with or dispose of any of 25p each in the capital of the company unissued shares in the Company: and ordinary shares provided that: ii to sell, transfer or cancel any treasury shares i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary as defined in section 162A 3 of the Act, shares hereby authorised to be purchased held by the Company, in accordance with the shall be 14.99% of the issued ordinary share provisions of the Act, capital of the company as at the date of the passing of this resolution: to such persons, at such times and generally on such terms and conditions, and at such times as the ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Directors may determine.
ordinary share shall be 25p exclusive of expenses : 10.
That the articles of association of the company iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses be amended by adding the words, exclusive of which may be paid for an ordinary share any treasury shares as defined in Article 12.1 ii shall be an amount equal to 105% of the above after the word given in the fourth line average of the middle market quotations as of article 50.2 ii.
derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the ordinary By order of the board shares for the five business days immediately Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, preceding the date of purchase: and Secretary iv unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, 17 March 2004 the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting Registered office: Donaldson House, of the company to be held in 2005, save that 97 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh EH12 5HD the company may at any time, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract or contracts to Notes: purchase ordinary shares under such authority 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at which will or might be completed or executed the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to wholly or partly after the expiration of such attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A authority and may make a purchase of shares proxy need not be a member of the company.
pursuant to any such contract or contracts.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
That, the articles of association of the company return of the form of proxy will not prevent any be amended by deleting article 12.1 and shareholder from attending the meeting and substituting therefor the following article new voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy text is underlined for ease of reference :- should be lodged, together with any Power of Unissued shares at the disposal of the Directors Attorney or other authority if any under which 12.1.
Subject to the provisions of the Statutes it is signed or an extract from the Books of relating to authority, pre-emption rights and Council and Session or a notarially certified copy PAGE 39 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
