Notice of Meeting of such power or authority at the address stated in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 register of members 48 hours before the time of hours before the time of the meeting.
any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any Securities Regulations 2001, the company provisions in any enactment, the articles of specifies that only those shareholders entered on association of the company or other instrument the register of members of the company as at to the contrary.
6.00pm on 25 April 2004 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of 4.
There are special arrangements for holders of members 48 hours before the time of any shares through The Edinburgh Fund Managers adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend Investment Trust Savings Plan, Investment Trust and vote at the meeting in respect of the number PEP ISA and Investment Trust Pension.
These are of ordinary shares registered in their name at explained in the Letter of Direction which such that time.
Changes to the entries on the register holders will have received with this report.
of members after 6.00pm on 25 April 2004 or, Financial Calendar Announcements, ordinary share dividend payments Debenture interest is payable half-yearly as and the issue of the annual and interim reports may undernoted: normally be expected in the following months: Debenture stock Payable March Preliminary figures and dividend for year 11% debenture stock 2016 31 January announced.
Annual report and accounts published.
and 31 July April Annual General Meeting.
A second interim 7 7 8% debenture stock 2019 30 April and dividend is being paid this year in lieu of a final 31 October dividend.
September Interim figures and interim dividend announced.
Interim report for half-year to 31 July The company is a member of The published and interim dividend paid.
Association of Investment Trust Companies.
PAGE 40 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004
