A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend meeting in respect of the number of ordinary and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need shares registered in their name at that time.
not be a member of the Company.
Changes to the entries in the register of members after 6.00pm on 19 July 2004 or, in the event that 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed the meeting is adjourned, in the register of with these accounts.
Completion and return of the members 48 hours before the time of any form of proxy will not prevent any shareholder adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in from attending the meeting and voting in person.
determining the rights of any person to attend or To be valid, the form of proxy should be lodged, vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any together with any power of attorney or other provisions in any enactment, the Articles of authority if any under which it is signed or an Association of the Company or other instrument to extract from the Books of Council and Session or a the contrary.
notarially certified copy of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received 4.
There are special arrangements for holders of not less than 48 hours before the time of the shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share meeting.
Plan and the Fidelity Investment Trust ISA PEP, and for holders through InvestIT - the Edinburgh 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Fund Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan and Securities Regulations 2001, the Company ISA PEP and Pension arrangements.
These are specifies that only those shareholders entered on explained in the Letter of Direction which such the register of members of the Company as at holders will have received with this report.
6.00pm on 19 July 2004 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 5.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment will 48 hours before the time of any adjourned be available prior to the Annual General Meeting.
Financial Calendar Announcements, ordinary share dividend payments This years Annual General Meeting will be held and the issue of the annual and interim reports may at the Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, normally be expected in the following months: Edinburgh on Wednesday 21 July 2004 at 2.30pm.
Shareholders are asked to reply on the May Preliminary figures and recommended final enclosed card if they will be attending the dividend for year announced meeting.
June Annual report and accounts published Following the meeting shareholders will have the opportunity to meet informally with the Board July Annual General Meeting and final dividend and Manager.
Tea and biscuits will be served.
paid Debenture interest is payable half-yearly as October Interim figures and interim dividend undernoted.
announced November Interim report for half-year to Debenture stock interest payable 30 September published 1 11 % debenture stock 2014 30 June and 31 December 2 December Interim dividend paid 3 7 4 % debenture stock 2022 31 March and 30 September Page 45 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
