Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and manner and upon such terms as the Directors of the fifteenth Annual General Meeting of The Edinburgh Company may from time to time determine, Investment Trust plc will be held at the Caledonian provided that: Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh on Wednesday 21 July 2004 at 2.30pm, for the following i the maximum number of shares hereby purposes: authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the ORDINARY BUSINESS issued share capital of the Company as at the date 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and of the passing of this resolution: Auditors and the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004. ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: 2.
To approve a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses 3.
To re-elect Mr Scott Dobbie a Director of the which may be paid for a share shall be an amount Company.
equal to 105% of the average of the middle 4.
To elect Mrs Nicola Ralston as a Director of the market quotations as derived from the London Company.
Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the shares 5.
To elect Mr William Samuel as a Director of the for the five business days immediately preceding Company.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report iv unless previously revoked, renewed or varied, the for the year ended 31 March 2004 authority hereby conferred shall expire on the 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the earlier of 20 January 2006 or at the conclusion of Company.
the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005, save that the Company may, 8.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration prior to such expiry enter into a contract or of the Auditors for the year to 31 March 2005. contracts to purchase shares under such SPECIAL BUSINESS authority which would or might be executed To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority resolution which will be proposed as a special and the Company may make such a purchase in resolution.
pursuance of any such contract or contracts as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in By order of the Board accordance with Section 166 of the Companies Act Fidelity Investments International 1985 the Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of any of its Secretary 11 June 2004 ordinary shares of 25p each shares in such Page 44 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
