Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust The Manager of this trust Fidelity Investments International offers a range of options, so you can invest in the way thats best for you.
Of course, as The Edinburgh Investment Trust is a listed company, you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
The annual charge for the Edinburgh Investing inside an ISA Investment Trust within an ISA is 0.5% VAT.
There A Fidelity ISA Individual Savings Account can be is an additional yearly charge of 0.5% VAT when an excellent way to get more from your investment, you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser.
because you wont have to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
Moving money from previous PEPs and ISAs up to 7,000 in a Maxi ISA If you have opened ISAs or PEPs with other up to 3,000 in a Mini ISA investment companies, you can move them into The Edinburgh Investment Trust without losing any tax The minimum investment in the Fidelity Investment benefits.
This is known as a transfer and it can be a Trust ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up great way to give your portfolio a new focus, or to or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
realign it with your current investment goals.
During 5 in 1 ISA - The Edinburgh Investment Trust is one the transfer your money won't be invested in the of five investment trusts managed by Fidelity.
You can stock market so you may miss out on any growth invest in the entire range through the Fidelity 5-in-1 during this time.
ISA, which spreads your money equally across all five Charges - The standard initial charge for a transfer is trusts.
This offers a simple and convenient way to 3.5%.
You wont have to pay any additional transfer invest across Europe, the UK, Japan and Asia giving costs.
However, please bear in mind that your current you a broadly diversified portfolio in a single ISA or PEP manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
The annual charge is as shown in the Investing Charges - The standard initial charge for the Fidelity inside an ISA section.
Keeping you updated If you hold The Edinburgh Investment Trust in an ISA or PEP, you will receive a yearly report detailing all your transactions and the value of your shares.
Investors with the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan will receive statements and valuations twice a year.
The share price of The Edinburgh Investment Trust appears daily in The Financial Times, The Times, The Guardian, The Daily Telegraph, The Scotsman and The Herald.
Price and performance information is also available at itseit.
Investors can obtain the real-time share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906 843 2422.
Page 46 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Investing in The Edinburgh Investment Trust PEP with the previous manager Edinburgh Fund Investing outside an ISA Managers EFM you can transfer it to Fidelity, If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have who will pay the exit fee charged by EFM.
already used your full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers you a low-cost Alternatively, if you have invested in the trust outside and convenient way to put money into The an ISA through the EFM investment trust savings Edinburgh Investment Trust.
scheme InvestIT, you can move your shares to the Fidelity Share Plan again Fidelity will cover any exit The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, fees charged by EFM.
This transfer could be 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings particularly useful for investors who are restarting a plan.
monthly savings plan no longer available with the Investing for children - The Share Plan is a flexible EFM scheme and want all their holdings together in and inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you have to do is enter the initials or name of the An additional bonus for investors transferring child in the Designation Box on the Share Plan holdings from EFM is that Fidelity will accept application form.
A special leaflet on investing for monthly savings contributions below the minimum children through investment trusts is available from 50 a month.
Holding shares directly - Finally, if you have Charges - There are no charges for buying, selling or shares in The Edinburgh Investment Trust that you holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust bought through a broker or share shop, you can Share Plan other than Stamp Duty of 0.5%, which is transfer them into the Fidelity Investment Trust Share currently payable on all share purchases.
Doing this allows you to reinvest your you invest through an Independent Financial Adviser, dividends and make further investments without there may be an initial charge of up to 3%.
having to pay brokerage fees.
Youll also be able to set Moving existing shares to Fidelity up a monthly savings plan and you will receive If you have an Edinburgh Investment Trust ISA or statements and valuations twice a year.
Further information For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting itseit.
co. uk or contacting your Independent Financial Adviser.
The value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA or PEP will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
The value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount invested.
Fidelity only provides information about its products and will not give investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact an Independent Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Investment Trust ISA and PEP are offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited and the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is offered by Fidelity Investments International.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland.
All companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Issued by Fidelity Investments International which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Page 47 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Page 48 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 CB18392
