Information for Investors INVESTMENT TRUSTS investors to maximise the amounts placed in stocks It is the business of investment trusts, advised and shares.
Investors will have the opportunity to by their managers, to invest in the shares of invest up to 7,000 in each of the tax years up to other companies.
The investment objectives 2005 06 in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust where they vary from trust to trust ranging from take out a Maxi ISA.
investment for capital growth and or income, to trusts which invest internationally, in a The initial charge is 30 VAT and the annual specific area of the world or in a single country management fee is 0.5% VAT capped at market.
Investing in investment trusts can 60 VAT.
No charges are made for buying or provide a spread of investments, managed by selling shares other than Government Stamp Duty experts, at low cost.
HOW TO INVEST As with all equity investments, the value of Ordinary shares investment trusts purchased will immediately be Investors can buy and sell shares in Edinburgh US reduced by the difference between the buying and Tracker Trust directly through a stockbroker or selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
indirectly through a lawyer, accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively shares can be PEP bought directly through The Edinburgh Fund PEP investors can continue to hold their existing Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan, Investment PEPs.
No further contributions can be made to a Trust ISA PEP and the Investment Trust Pension.
PEP other than reinvestment of any income generated.
However, investors will be able to PRODUCT DETAILS transfer between different PEP funds and different InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Managers PEP providers without losing their tax advantages.
Investment Trust Savings Plan To enable investors to take advantage of transferring InvestIT provides a straightforward way to invest in into a PEP in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust, a PEP Edinburgh US Tracker Trust and other investment transfer brochure is available.
Again charges are low trusts managed by Edinburgh Fund Managers.
with no entrance transfer fee being charged.
An Investors can make regular monthly payments annual management charge of 0.5% VAT capped at minimum 30 per month or invest occasional 40 is charged.
lump sums minimum 250 initially and 30 thereafter.
Lower amounts of 20, 150 and 20 Investors should further bear in mind that the value respectively can be made in InvestIT for Children.
of any tax relief will depend on the individual Existing shareholders can also invest in the Plan and circumstances of the investor and that tax rates and have their dividends reinvested.
There is no charge reliefs, as well as the tax treatment of ISAs and for buying or holding shares through InvestIT other PEPs, may be changed by future legislation.
than 0.5% Government Stamp Duty which is currently payable on all share purchases.
A The Edinburgh Fund Managers transaction fee of 10 VAT is levied on all sales.
Investment Trust Pension The Investment Trust Pension enables investors to Edinburgh Fund Managers save for retirement by investing in Edinburgh US Investment Trust ISA PEP Tracker Trust.
A wide range of investors can enjoy the ISA benefits of a Personal Pension Plan.
Contributions The Edinburgh Fund Managers Investment Trust can be made monthly, yearly or by lump sums, and Individual Savings Account ISA is a tax efficient there are low minimum investment amounts.
There are two types of ISAs available, a Maxi and a Mini.
A Maxi ISA allows PAGE 31 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Information for Investors Note Website: www.
co. uk Please remember that past performance is not necessarily a guide to the future.
Stock market and For information and application forms on the currency movements may cause the value of shares InvestIT, ISA PEP, Pension and Share Exchange and the income from them to fall as well as rise and Schemes please contact: investors may not get back the amount they originally invested.
Shareholder Relations Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Keeping you informed Donaldson House The companys share price appears under the 97 Haymarket Terrace heading Investment Trusts in the Financial Times, Edinburgh EH12 5HD The Daily Telegraph, The Times, The Independent Telephone: 0131-313 1000 and The Scotsman.
Investors can also obtain the or FREE on 0800-028 6789 24 hours latest share price by phoning FT Cityline on 0906-003 1598.
All calls cost 60p per minute.
InvestIT Administrator Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland For internet users, detailed data on Edinburgh US Registrar Department SP Tracker Trust, including price and performance PO Box 28448 information, is available on the companys website Finance House www.
com and on the Orchard Brae Edinburgh Fund Managers website www.
com Edinburgh EH4 1WQ and the TrustNet website www.
Telephone: 0870-606 0268 For information concerning your shareholding, Individual Savings Account please contact: Personal Equity Plan Administrator Bank of New York Europe Ltd Registrars Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Computershare Investor Services PLC ISA PEP Department PO Box 82, The Pavilions 12 Blenheim Place Bridgewater Road Edinburgh EH7 5ZR Bristol BS99 7NH Telephone: 0800-028 6789 Telephone: 0870-702-0010 Pension Administrator Edinburgh Pension Centre Personal Pension Management Limited 141 Castle Street Salisbury Wiltshire SP1 3TB Telephone: 0800-137 079 The above has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Edinburgh Fund Managers plc which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
PAGE 32 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and first within the meaning of Section 94 2 of the Act Annual General Meeting of Edinburgh US Tracker for cash at a price not below the net asset value Trust plc will be held at the registered office of the per share, pursuant to any general authority company, Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, conferred upon them for the purposes of Section Edinburgh, on Wednesday 12 May 2004 at 80 of the Act as if Section 89 1 of the Act did 11.00am for the purpose of transacting the not apply to any such allotment, up to an following business: aggregate nominal amount of 7,365,097, provided that this power shall be limited: ORDINARY BUSINESS 1.
To adopt the reports of the directors and auditors i to the allotment of equity securities in and the financial statements for the year ended connection with any rights issue in favour of 31 January 2004: the holders of ordinary shares on the register on a date fixed by the directors where the 2.
To approve the directors report on remuneration equity securities respectively attributable to for the year ended 31 January 2004: the interests of all the holders of ordinary 3.
To declare a final dividend of 2.85p per share: shares are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the respective numbers of 4.
To re-elect Mr Ferguson as a director: ordinary shares held by them on that date, 5.
To elect Mr Hunter as a director: provided that the directors may make such exclusions or other arrangements as they may 6.
To elect Mr Crawford as a director: deem necessary or expedient in relation to 7.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors: fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or 8.
To authorise the directors to determine the the requirements of any relevant regulatory auditors remuneration for the year ended body or stock exchange: and 31 January 2005. ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to SPECIAL BUSINESS paragraph i of this resolution of equity To consider and, if thought fit, to pass Resolution 9 securities up to an aggregate nominal amount as an Ordinary Resolution and Resolutions 10 and of 2,209,529 being 10% of the nominal 11 as Special Resolutions.
value of the existing issued share capital of the company: Ordinary resolution 9.
That the board of directors be released from the and such power shall expire at the conclusion of obligation in Article 152 of the companys the next annual general meeting of the company articles of association to convene an after the passing of this resolution or 15 months Extraordinary General Meeting of the company from the passing of this resolution, whichever is to be held on 31 July 2003 at which an ordinary earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or resolution will be proposed pursuant to Section extended by the company in general meeting, 84 of the Insolvency Act 1986 requiring the save that the company may, before such expiry, company to be wound up voluntarily.
make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after Special resolutions such expiry and the directors may allot equity 10.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, securities pursuant to any such offer or the directors be and are hereby empowered agreement as if the power conferred hereby had pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act not expired.
1985 the Act to allot equity securities PAGE 33 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notice of Meeting 11.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, Note: the company be authorised, in accordance with 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to Act, to make market purchases within the attend and, on a poll, vote on his her behalf.
A meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act of proxy need not be a member of the company.
ordinary shares of 25p each ordinary shares, provided that:- 2.
A form of proxy for use by shareholders is enclosed with these accounts.
Completion and a the maximum number of ordinary shares return of the form of proxy will not prevent any hereby authorised to be purchased shall be shareholder from attending the meeting and 14.99% of the issued share capital of the voting in person.
To be valid, the form of proxy company as at the date of the passing of this should be lodged, together with any Power of resolution: Attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or an extract from the Books of b the minimum price which may be paid for Council and Session or a notarially certified copy an ordinary share shall be 25p: of such power or authority at the address stated thereon, so as to be received not less than 48 c the maximum price exclusive of expenses hours before the time of the meeting.
which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the 3.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated average of the middle market quotations as Securities Regulations 2001, the company derived from the Daily Official List of the specifies that only those shareholders entered on London Stock Exchange for the ordinary the register of members of the company as at shares for the five business days immediately 6.00pm on 10 May 2004 or, in the event that the preceding the date of purchase: and meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, meeting, shall be entitled to attend and vote at the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the meeting in respect of the number of ordinary 11 November 2005, save that the company shares registered in their name at that time.
may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract Changes to the entries on the register of to purchase ordinary shares under such members after 6.00pm on 10 May 2004 or, in authority which will or might be executed the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the wholly or partly after the expiration of such register of members 48 hours before the time of authority and may make a purchase of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in ordinary shares pursuant to any such contract.
determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any By order of the board, provisions in any enactment, the articles of association of the company or other instrument Edinburgh Fund Managers plc to the contrary.
There are special arrangements for holders of shares through InvestIT The Edinburgh Fund Registered office: Managers Investment Trust Savings Plan and Donaldson House Individual Savings Account Personal Equity Plan 97 Haymarket Terrace and Pension arrangements.
These are explained Edinburgh EH12 5HD in the Letter of Direction which such holders will have received with this report.
PAGE 34 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Aberdeen US cover hfs 9 3 04 3:03 pm Page 2 Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Donaldson House 97 Haymarket Terrace Edinburgh EH12 5HD Tel 0131 313 1000 Fax 0131 313 6303
