Notes to the accounts 1 Basis of preparation The Group accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings all of which are made up to 31 December 2004.
As provided for by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, a separate profit and loss account is not presented for the Company.
2 Accounting policies Convention The financial information is prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include revaluation of certain fixed asset properties and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards.
Turnover and profits Turnover principally arises from the sale of residential properties and land.
Turnover and profits in respect of house sales, land sales and land exchanges are taken at the time of legal completion of the sale.
Turnover does not include the sale of properties accepted in part exchange.
The net profits or losses arising on the sale of part exchanged properties are accounted for in cost of sales.
Profits arising from land exchanges are recognised only when the profits are supported by cash generation.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised on all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences reverse, based on tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
Fixed assets and depreciation In complying with FRS 15: Tangible Fixed Assets revalued tangible fixed asset properties owned by the Group at 31 December 1999 are retained at their prevailing book values as at 31 December 1999.
In doing so, the directors have carried out an impairment review as at 31 December 2004 and have confirmed the prevailing valuations as acceptable.
Depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold properties based upon the difference between book value and estimated residual value charged over the estimated useful life of the property.
The directors are of the opinion that, having regard to estimated residual values, based on prices prevailing at the dates of acquisition or subsequent revaluation, and the estimated useful economic lives, the depreciation rate should be 2% per annum on a straight line basis.
All the properties are subject to an annual impairment review.
An impairment loss on a revalued property is recognised in the profit and loss account if it is caused by a clear consumption of economic benefits.
Other impairments of revalued properties are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses until the carrying amount of the property reaches depreciated historical cost and thereafter in the profit and loss account.
Impairment losses on other properties held at cost are charged to the profit and loss account.
Plant and machinery is depreciated on a 33.3% reducing balance basis.
Computer equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over three years.
Office machinery is depreciated on a 25% reducing balance basis.
Operating leases Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis.
Page 74 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
