Corporate social responsibility report Policies, procedures and performance Governance | Sustainability | Health and safety Environmental | Social | Ethical 2004 Bovis Homes Group PLC, The Manor House, North Ash Road, New Ash Green, Longfield, Kent DA3 8HQ.
Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Printed April 2004 Entirely produced on papers made from chlorine free wood fibres from sustainable forests.
It is fully recyclable and Nordic swan certified.
Home buyer When Bovis Homes employs external technical Contents satisfaction surveys are analysed, to enable continuous consultants, guidelines are provided to ensure they improvement in the product, specification and have clear parameters within which to work.
ensures that all relationships with suppliers and 1 IntroductionContents subcontractors are and remain ethical.
The Group operates a strict policy, which does not permit staff to privately employ or arrange for work to be carried out 3 Corporate social responsibility charter by a Bovis Homes subcontractor.
This code applies to all directors and employees.
A no smoking and no alcohol policy operates in the 8 Corporate governance registered, regional and area offices.
To the Groups knowledge there were no breaches of 9 Sustainable development the Ethical Code of Conduct during 2003 and up to the date of this reports publication.
"Bovis Homes was included in the WWF Insight 33 Environmental management Investment survey entitled ""Building Towards Sustainability""."
The Group supports this initiative and the One Million Sustainable Homes campaign.
37 Health and safety management Bovis Homes seeks opportunities to provide affordable 40 Research and development housing, typically for housing associations and usually as part of mixed tenure developments.
The Group has specialist teams dedicated to the delivery of affordable 42 Human resources housing.
In this way, Bovis Homes actively contributes towards social inclusion, as well as developing an important business segment.
44 Social and ethical conduct Subcontractors and material supply chain partners are provided with fair and reasonable contract conditions, which contain, among other things: terms for making payments within an agreed time frame: the provision of sufficient information for them to operate effectively: and the provision of welfare facilities on sites.
Regular site meetings, using a detailed standard agenda, help to cement the Companys relationship with subcontractors.
Illustrations of the Groups commitment and contributions to the community are provided on pages 30 and 31.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 45 This document acknowledges the Groups responsibility Bovis Homes Group PLC is one of the to disclose CSR information and provide greater leading housebuilders in the United Kingdom.
transparency to stakeholders including: shareholders: We operate through regional offices in customers: employees: the supply chain: national and Cambourne, Cambridgeshire: Cheadle local government: non government organisations Hulme, Greater Manchester: Cheltenham, NGOs : and the wider community within which Gloucestershire: Coleshill, Warwickshire: and we operate.
New Ash Green in Kent, which is also our Head Office base.
The Company has The information contained within this report has been been listed on the London Stock Exchange consolidated from the policies and procedures in since 1997. operation throughout Bovis Homes and has been verified by our internal audit department.
Our policies This is our third Corporate Social Responsibility CSR and procedures are monitored and reviewed, as part of Report containing information on policies, procedures a continuous improvement programme, by senior and performance as they relate to corporate management and by multi-disciplinary review groups.
governance, sustainable development, the This review process helps to develop new initiatives, the environment, health and safety, human resources and most recent of which are contained in this report.
We have included several illustrative case studies to demonstrate our recent We have provided further information relating to the achievements in many of these areas.
Groups commitment to sustainable development and transparent, measurable corporate conduct in CSR The report has been compiled to incorporate guidance reporting.
I am pleased to be able to inform you of the from: The Association of British Insurers ABI : the progress being made, arising from our commitment to Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs continuous improvement.
DEFRA : the Ethical Investment Research Service EIRIS : the Financial Reporting Council FRC Malcolm Harris Combined Code: and the Governments Planning Chief Executive Policy Guidance Note 3 PPG3.
5 March 2004 P Page 1 age 1 Bovis Homes Gr Bovis Homes Group PLC oup PLC www www.
uk Corporate social responsibility charter This third charter has been updated in line with the Group's commitment and determination to conduct its affairs in an equitable manner.
Bovis Homes recognises corporate, environmental and social responsibility, whilst communicating with all stakeholders on mutual aspirations.
Information has been drawn from various policies and procedures in place within Bovis Homes, which are under constant review to enable continuous improvement and development.
Bovis Homes operates with the following mission statement: At all times we should endeavour to exceed customer expectations through a policy of continuous improvements in all our activities encouraging initiative, creativity and training of all our employees.
Bovis Homes believes that, in undertaking its activities, it should add value economically, environmentally and socially to the areas and locations in which it operates.
Its activities and relationships should be undertaken with integrity, in an ethical and honest manner.
Bovis Homes believes that it should be accountable for its actions and that this approach leads to significant benefits, such as: the avoidance of damage to reputation and the risk of adverse publicity: enhanced reputation with external stakeholders and local communities: and improved employee relations.
Bovis Homes is a member of the FTSE4Good index.
The Group's policy commitments focus on the following: Sustainable development: The environment: Health and safety: Research and development: Human resources: Ethical code of conduct: Stakeholders.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 3 Bovis Homes operates a rigorous health and safety Sustainable development Bovis Homes policy, the scope of which covers employees supports sustainable development and construction throughout the organisation, customers, suppliers, and takes account of environmental and social issues, contractors and the public.
High standards of health whilst developing financial and competitive and safety are critical to the operational success of performance.
The Group sees sustainable development Bovis Homes.
Rigorous procedures and practices are in as a worthwhile and socially responsible aim.
place which support and underpin the Group's health Moreover, through marketing and enhancing the and safety policy.
public perception of the Companys ethos and products - as well as the benefit of planning policy Bovis Homes recognises its duty as an employer to support - sustainable activities can be seen as a ensure, so far as it is reasonably practicable, the health contributor to the enhancement of long-term and safety at work of all its employees.
Bovis Homes ensures that it: The environment Bovis Homes understands the produces, maintains and updates its health and impact that its operations and activities may have on safety policy: the environment.
The Group has developed a policy to provides appropriate training in relation to health enhance environmental performance, wherever and safety matters: possible, and to minimise any negative impacts insofar as it is safe, practical and economically sound to do so.
maintains a Health and Safety Consultative Committee: It is the policy of Bovis Homes to: investigates any major accidents and all incidents hazardous to health and safety and ensures that comply with all legal requirements at every appropriate preventative and remedial actions are location where it operates: taken: set high environmental standards, with an objective has in place a programme of continual monitoring of improving the existing environment wherever and review.
possible: Bovis Homes has appointed professional, independent complete reviews of the environmental impacts of safety advisers to review health and safety at all of its its activities, where appropriate, and establish sites of operation.
These advisers provide training and practices and procedures and set targets to give advice on the requirements of relevant statutory minimise such impacts: provisions, and on general safety matters.
maintain a regular internal environmental auditing Research and development Bovis Homes programme: recognises that continuous improvement and provide appropriate training to employees in development are key to the continuing success of the environmental matters: business and the ongoing mutual benefit of all maintain an Environmental Consultative Committee: stakeholders.
Accordingly, Bovis Homes is actively committed to research and development, covering all consult with local communities which may be aspects of its business.
affected by Bovis Homes' activities: It is a key requirement that all major changes to investigate all environmental incidents: specifications, procedures and processes are subject to report any incidents through the Group's rigorous analysis, full trials, endorsement and approval Environmental Notification Plan.
by the Board of Bovis Homes Limited before implementation.
This system ensures suitable and Health and safety The Group's objective is to adequate control within the business, in the ensure that no person suffers harm as a consequence implementation of improvements and new of Bovis Homes carrying out its business activities.
developments, safeguarding the interests of all stakeholders.
Page 4 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk promote a strong culture of health and safety and Human resources Bovis Homes holds its environmental and social awareness for the benefit employees in high regard and recognises that their of customers, suppliers, employees and third parties: skills, knowledge and expertise make Bovis Homes successful.
The Group operates an equal opportunities have concern and consideration for all people policy, which provides that it will not discriminate on affected by the operations of Bovis Homes and the the grounds of: race: creed: colour: nationality: ethnic products and services the Group offers: or national origins: gender: age: marital status: aim to provide continual improvement in the language: religion: political or other opinion: disability provision of products and services which Bovis or sexual orientation.
Bovis Homes does not employ Homes supplies: anyone under-age.
The Group will not tolerate any sexual, physical or mental harassment of employees.
require equivalent levels of conduct from any party with which it interacts or which acts on its behalf: Bovis Homes operates personnel policies with the objective that all employees: never knowingly engage in areas of business activity incompatible with social inclusion.
understand their role and duties within the Group: Stakeholders Bovis Homes recognises the work in healthy and safe conditions: aspirations and needs of all stakeholders including: have the opportunity to discuss their performance, shareholders: employees: customers: suppliers: areas for improvement and training needs: contractors: supply chain and other partners: local and receive suitable training as part of a programme of national government, non-profit making organisations: continuous personal and professional self development and communities.
The Group is always keen to work relevant to their aptitudes, skills and abilities: with stakeholders to identify common ground, and financial performance is just one of the many factors are fairly treated and have their views considered: considered during the development of mutually have access to a staff whistle blowing arrangement beneficial relationships.
Bovis Homes also believes that and to a member of senior management to discuss relationships founded on trust, good working practices, confidential concerns about any aspect of their consultation, and tried and tested procedures are for employment.
the mutual advantage of all involved parties.
Ethical code of conduct Bovis Homes will In the pursuit of good relationships Bovis Homes undertake its business for the benefit of its stakeholders endeavours to: with integrity, respectful of different cultures and demonstrate respect for all parties and act as a individuals.
Bovis Homes operates in the UK only and socially and morally responsible member of any believes that human rights are universal.
business or other relationship: Bovis Homes applies the principles within its Ethical understand and be sympathetic to the objectives Code of Conduct throughout its activities, such that and desires of those with which it is interacting, the Company will: entering into consultation as appropriate: respect the rule of law, and comply with act as a promoter of partnering and honest dealing: regulations and legislation: honour the service standards that have been not participate in, or condone, corrupt or otherwise agreed between parties.
unacceptable business practices: Bovis Homes strives to establish long term treat employees with respect at all times, act as an relationships based on: equal opportunities employer and not exploit high performance and service standards: labour, observe human rights Bovis Homes is a UK delivery to agreed commitments: only employer, and - through a system of mutual mentoring: consultation visits by the procurement group - seek flexible and strong working practices.
assurance that suppliers meeting our selection criteria maintain similar standards: Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 5 The key identified risks, all of which have designated Corporate governance tested internal controls placed against them, are as follows: Bovis Homes is committed to strong the Group adopts the wrong strategy in relation to corporate governance, including those the economic cycle: requirements set out in the new Financial the Group enters into business risk which does not Reporting Council FRC Combined Code, increase shareholder value: appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Board has carried out a a loss or unacceptable profit is incurred from review of the steps needed to comply with developing land holdings: the new Code, which applies for reporting the Group misreads market conditions or builds the years commencing on or after 1 November wrong product: 2003, and established an implementation replacement land values and forecast selling prices timetable for these changes.
Further details are not achieved: are provided in the report on corporate governance contained in the Annual Report the Group fails to achieve planning following and Accounts.
major investment: Corporate Governance Policy Guidelines have been unacceptable increases in suppliers materials and adopted, which set out how the principles of good labour costs impact profits: corporate governance are applied and are also key personnel are lost which leads to an contained in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The impairment of trading ability: Board therefore recognises that strong corporate governance is an essential element of successful a significant environmental or social event impacts business management.
reputation: The Board represents the interests of shareholders and untried or unproven technologies.
other stakeholders in managing the business of the Risks can be operational, financial, reputational, legal, Group successfully and determining business strategy.
All employees are responsible for The Board is responsible for monitoring progress the identification, assessment and minimisation of these against performance criteria and ensuring that senior risks.
Further reviews and practices are employed to management operate in accordance with the Groups specifically cover risk, such as the use of a risk register, policies and procedures.
The senior managers, who preparation of key indicators of performance, operate within an established regional management deployment of quality assurance procedures, structure, implement and execute the determined maintenance of an internal audit function, and regular business strategies to achieve short, medium and long reviews of compliance with policies and procedures.
The Board takes regular account of the significance of As a key part of the system of internal control, Bovis environmental, social and ethical matters, through the Homes has established a process of risk identification inclusion of relevant information and data in Board and management, which reflects the Association of reports and other documentation provided to it.
British Insurers ABIs guidelines and is designed to Ultimate responsibility rests with the Board.
Members ensure that stakeholders are protected.
The Board of of the Health, Safety and Environmental Consultative Bovis Homes maintains this process, which is Committee are drawn from senior regional monitored by internal audit and is critically assessed management, to maintain the Groups high level by the Audit Committee.
The aim is to ensure that commitment to health, safety and sustainability issues hazards to which the Group is exposed are controlled, in all parts of the organisation.
The Committee meets whilst risks arising from operating are minimised and quarterly and assists in embedding and cascading managed, to achieve returns and benefits for Bovis down policies and procedures, ensuring that they Homes' stakeholders.
become part of the Groups culture and daily activity.
Page 8 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk The Groups commitment to sustainable development Sustainable development is illustrated through this document, with procedures and policies established under the system of The conservation and considered use of environmental management, containing key elements resources is of concern to everyone.
Bovis to ensure the commitment is delivered to all Homes is committed to designing and stakeholders.
"building developments that meet the desires of new home purchasers, whilst responding During 2003 the Group participated in the survey to the sustainable development requirements ""Building Towards Sustainability: performance and of stakeholders."
"progress among the UKs leading house builders""."
"Commissioned by the World Wide Fund for Nature The Groups objective is to conserve resources, make WWF, in conjunction with Insight investment, the efficient use of available land and protect and survey is part of the WWFs ""One Million Sustainable enhance the local environment."
"The Groups defined Homes"" campaign."
approach to sustainable development is as follows: The survey assessment criteria consisted of three parts: Commitment through the activities of the Group to provide an effective and desirable living environment Governance and risk management: which through its design, construction, use of Impact on the environment: materials, provision of services and utilisation of finite Impact on society.
resources does not undermine or detrimentally affect Bovis Homes scored 4th overall, based upon the the ability of future generations to fulfil their own published information, and welcomes the opportunity expectations.
to participate in further surveys bench-marking Group Bovis Homes conducts the operation of the business in performance.
a socially responsible and ethical manner, to aspire to the needs of all stakeholders, now and in the future.
These include: customers: employees: contractors and their workforce: private shareholders and institutional investors: planning and building regulatory bodies: designers and specifiers: landowners: supply chains: communities: local and national government: trade bodies: financial service providers: charities and trusts: media.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 9 Cambourne, Cambridgeshire Housing choice In order to meet the Bovis Homes Cambourne development is just one requirements of a variety of new home purchasers, the example of sustainable development.
The Cambourne Group provides a wide choice of properties in desirable development mentioned in Bovis Homes Corporate locations.
Social Responsibility Report 2003 has been singled out in a report from the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister as a successful example of sustainable development.
"Cambourne is cited by English Nature in the ""Planning for Sustainable Housing and Communities"" report as an example of environmental sustainability."
"As a completely new ""living environment"" of homes, shops and services, Cambourne was designed to carefully balance the needs of the new residents, with those of the surrounding natural environment."
The Group provides housing, working and leisure environments for all sections of the community including: family accommodation: first time buyer properties: single person households: working from home: accommodation for special needs groups: retirement living, including very sheltered for the frail elderly: shared equity: social for rent: luxury properties: public and private open space, flora and wildlife habitats: shops, offices, factories, community and leisure buildings.
Page 10 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Urban regeneration The Group supports the Governments policy of maximising the use of brown previously used land, wherever possible, and holds a mixed portfolio of land from which it can promote the release of brown sites in advance of greenfield land.
During 2003, in respect of all legal completions, 35% were on brown sites, compared with 33% during 2002.
The Group is keen to work with government at both national and local levels to try and maximise the use of brown sites.
It is widely recognised that brown sites can involve unfavourable constraints, environmental issues and remedial costs.
It is important that resources employed in addressing these factors are Once complete, this 45-acre regeneration project will managed in a cost effective way.
As an example, the provide 400 new affordable homes for the Bristol Groups South West region controls a significant Community Housing Foundation and 400 new private number of brown sites and approximately 56% of its homes for sale on the open market.
total strategic landholding is on deliverable brown land.
Two such sites are Gloucester Trading Estate, The project will be completed in four phases and Gloucester and Filton Airfield, near Bristol, which form includes the demolition of post World War II, subthe largest strategic brown land allocations in the standard and defective Parkinson Reinforced Concrete region.
The Northern region also has a significant houses.
"number of brown sites, which are currently being The scheme features ""Home Zones"" which, through the promoted through the planning process."
imaginative use of landscaping and traffic calming Rowling Gate, Bristol measures, will help to shift priority away from the car Working in partnership with Bristol City Council and and back to the pedestrian - providing a more tranquil the Bristol Community Housing Foundation, Bovis and pleasant living environment for adults, and a safer Homes is currently regenerating a Bristol suburb.
The project started early in 2003 and the first new homes are now complete.
The first tenants moved in during September, and the first private homes were occupied in December.
"Peter Farr, Chairman of the Bristol Community Housing Foundation is delighted with the progress of the scheme: ""This project is upgrading the standard of homes in the area and its design is creating a new, user-friendly, seamless community in a very desirable location, just north of the city centre. """
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 11 The Anchorage, Wivenhoe, Essex Bovis Homes Anchorage development occupies a stunning and historic setting, within the picturesque riverside town of Wivenhoe.
The development has been built on brown land, on an area that was formerly part of the Wivenhoe Port.
When designing the development layout, Bovis Homes architects were required to provide a link between the Wivenhoe Trail, on the sites northern boundary, and the quayside river walk, which runs along the River Colne.
This footway and cycle path runs from Colchester to the Wivenhoe riverside, and it formed the main axis of the residential development design.
used as a model and text book for urban design, and The development has been designed to incorporate the requirements of the local authoritys planning areas that differ in character.
The Anchorage is an attractive and development from the Wivenhoe Trail will encounter a sustainable residential environment that enhances the number of different views and scenes.
The architects Wivenhoe Quay area.
have included both formal and informal street arrangements, a market square, pedestrian village Bovis Homes has made efficient use of the available streets, pedestrian underpasses, and a quayside land by including a large number of three storey, street scene.
The three storey property designs at Wivenhoe are traditional in appearance and very much in keeping with the character of the town.
The provision of garages, parking spaces and off-road parking areas was carefully considered during the development design.
The parking provision has been carefully planned, so that it does not detract from the attractive street scenes.
Garages and parking spaces have generally been provided to the rear of the homes, and are accessed via underpasses in the terraces.
The detailing of the houses at The Anchorage reflects the Wivenhoe vernacular and draws upon examples within the towns conservation area.
The use of materials and building forms represent those historically used in the area.
Externally a variety of When Bovis Homes architects designed the Wivenhoe finishes have been used, including weatherboarding, Quay development, they not only considered the needs rendering and brickwork.
The designers also used a of potential purchasers, they also effectively mixture of roofing materials and appropriate street responded to national government planning guidance, furniture.
the requirements of the Essex Design Guide which is Page 12 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Salisbury Village, Hatfield, Hertfordshire The Hatfield development was the first in the country This 755-acre former British Aerospace facility is being to benefit from a full sustainability report.
As part of redeveloped to provide a completely new community Bovis Homes commitment to the environment and in Hatfield, Hertfordshire.
Bovis Homes is the lead sustainability, the Companys technical team developer responsible for the residential element of investigated innovative methods of construction and this major new community, which is currently under recycling to achieve this status.
construction and, once complete, will feature more Materials from the disused runway were crushed and than 1,000 new dwellings.
A wide range of property re-used on site in the construction of new roads and types, including affordable housing, will be provided driveways, minimising lorry movements from the site.
to suit a variety of needs.
The development will also Excess arisings from the site construction process were feature formal public open spaces and a primary placed in an existing pit on the site, again reducing school site.
lorry movements, and preserving existing disposal sites.
Surface water drainage from the site was designed to ensure that run-off to existing water courses is balanced and will not exceed previous greenfield runoff rates.
The balancing lagoons were incorporated into Bovis Homes open space strategy.
None of the properties on the Hatfield development have outside water taps.
Water butts have been provided in their place, along with compost bins to encourage recycling.
The development has been designed to make provision for, but not be dominated by, vehicles.
The transport strategy has been created to provide genuine modal choice for the future residents.
It encourages The Salisbury Village development is adjacent to a pedestrian and cycle usage for maximum transport major amenity area, which extends to more than 400 efficiency and sustainability.
"This land will be transformed into ""Ellenbrook Park"" and will remain within the green belt."
Bovis Homes carried out extensive ecological and hydrological studies during the planning process.
The settlement will provide a high technology business park together with mixed use facilities, including a district centre, university campus, sports pitches, hotels, a primary school, shopping and offices.
There will also be a comprehensive footpath and cycleway system.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 13 A510 Wellingborough East, Northamptonshire protect and enhance the built heritage and Bovis Homes has been selected as the preferred diversity of species and habitats: developer for this major sustainable urban extension no development on the floodplain: to the Northamptonshire town of Wellingborough.
shape new development patterns which minimise the need to travel: minimise the use of land which has not been previously developed: ensure buildings are constructed in such a manner as to minimise energy use and waste production: produce good design which creates high quality environments: ensure designs and layouts take account of public health, crime prevention and community safety: provide for the requirements of the whole community.
"In addition to the large number of homes proposed for the site, there are also plans to provide approximately 200 acres of mixed employment, a district and local centre, community and health facilities, new transport links and access routes, new school sites and more ""Wellingborough East"", as the project is known, covers than 150 acres of open space."
approximately 890 acres, and development will be phased over a period of 10-15 years, providing in excess of 3,000 new homes of different types, to suit a variety of needs.
to A14 A6 This sustainable urban extension scheme is designed to bring maximum benefit to the local community, whilst minimising the impact on the environment.
The site includes areas of brown land, remediated Housing damaged land, substantial areas of floodplain and to A45 some greenfield land.
Housing The following broad principles apply to Town centre Wellingborough East: to A45 use land in the most efficient way: to A45 to A45 reuse land and buildings wherever possible: Page 14 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk A510 to A509 A14 Devonshire Court, Sale, Greater Manchester Mill Green Park, Congleton, Cheshire Bovis Homes Devonshire Court development features Bovis Homes is currently developing around 100 new 25 two bedroom apartments, with secure underground homes on a derelict industrial site, on the banks of the parking.
The development, which occupies the site of River Dane in the centre of Congleton, Cheshire.
The a former petrol filling station, presented Bovis Homes development site, which had been left vacant for more than five years, was once occupied by the earliest water-powered textile mill in the country.
Once empty, the remaining mill buildings were subjected to severe vandalism and arson attacks.
The site was not only of historical and archaeological importance, it also had ecologically sensitive areas and required some asbestos and other waste removal.
During the demolition process, Bovis Homes worked with Congleton Borough Councils Conservation Office to ensure that any remaining items of historical importance were saved.
The site was subject to a detailed archaeological investigation and a number of historic architectural artefacts were recovered before the redevelopment commenced.
with a number of challenges including: petrol tanks: hydro-carbon contamination: and demolition and deep excavation in a residential area.
The Company resolved these issues successfully and swiftly and the apartment development is now complete.
"Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 15 in terms of land use, Bovis Homes architects have Land-efficient home design By designing a designed ""coach house"" buildings."
"These new ""coach new range of products, Bovis Homes has succeeded in houses"" accommodate a one or two bedroom responding to the changing needs of home buyers, apartment, arranged over one or two floors, above a whilst meeting the planning authorities land use block of garages."
Advances in structural technology have enabled architects to redesign traditional two storey Development layouts are also changing, in response to the planning authorities requirement to incorporate a greater number of units within the space available.
Streets in traditional village settings often feature large terraced homes and link detached homes.
"Bovis Homes new development designs often reproduce this traditional style with ""room-in-the-roof"" homes and town houses within a ""village street"" setting."
Providing workspaces at home The development of new technologies is allowing an increasing number of people to work from home.
Bovis Homes has responded to this trend by providing office study space in many new home designs.
The reduction in work related vehicle journeys is just one of the positive benefits of providing workspaces at homes, raising the roof heights, introducing dormer home.
windows and significantly increasing the available space within each property.
"These ""room-in-the-roof"" home designs are very spacious, and the flexible accommodation provided on the top floor is almost as large in area as the floors below."
Bovis Homes is also building an increasing number of modern, three storey, terraced townhouses, which are popular with new home buyers and are also very land efficient.
The Groups first three storey property designs were introduced five years ago and they are now being built on developments throughout the country.
"Responding to the needs of the first time buyer, Bovis Homes has designed a new range of entry-level products, including one and two bedroom apartments and ""coach houses""."
Rather than building separate single-storey garages, which are considered wasteful Page 16 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
"uk Enhancing the green areas The Government attaches particular importance to the ""greening"" of residential environments and states that landscaping should be an integral part of new development."
Bovis Homes, where possible, endeavours to enhance the environment by creating, retaining and improving existing natural features and habitat.
The landscape and open spaces provided are designed to complement existing features and add to customers enjoyment and understanding of the environment.
"The nationally-run ""Greenleaf"" housing awards extraordinary unusual provision of a new public car recognise the importance housebuilders place on the park will surely make this winner of the 2002 Hanson creation of a whole living environment in addition to Award a credit to the industry and a joy to live in for building new homes."
"Aspects considered by the many years to come. """
Professor Chris Baines: chairman Greenleaf judges include the use of green space, of the Greenleaf judging panel.
retention of natural features including trees, hedges, Design for Homes Award ponds and streams, and efforts to create a new - Lydekker Park, Harpenden.
Schemes do not become eligible for an This special award is for the Greenleaf winner that best award until three years after they have been sold to demonstrates the way that new communities can be ensure that the developers initial efforts are not helped to come together with the aid of good simply cosmetic.
The housing landscape needs to In 2003, Bovis Homes was presented with seven complement the buildings and encourage stronger Greenleaf awards, including the prestigious Hanson links within the neighbourhood.
"This years awardAward for the ""best Greenleaf example""."
winning development has been cleverly designed as a great place to live.
Greenleaf described each of the winning schemes as follows: The Hanson Award for the best Greenleaf example in 2002 - Lydekker Park, Harpenden.
"""Each year we hope to find at least one new development that brings out the very best in housing landscape and Lydekker Park is a very worthy winner of the top Greenleaf award."
This varied development is clearly fostering a successful, contented community.
The landscape has been skilfully designed to provide a range of different contributions to the quality of life for residents and their nearby neighbours.
The standard of workmanship is exceptionally good, with as much attention paid to the hard landscape detail as to the homes themselves, while the planting is generous, well cared for, and already very beautiful.
The variety of spaces and settings and the Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 17 National Urban Forestry Unit Award Geographical award winners - Spring Meadows, Gamston, Nottingham Eastern - Lydekker Park, Harpenden Lydekker Parkwhich we have already described as the winner of The Hanson Award for the best Greenleaf example, and the Design for Homes Award - was also the winner of a Geographical Award.
Midlands - Dovehouse Court, Solihull Designed and built with care and attention.
The open gardens, with a variety of planting, contribute to the most pleasing overall environment.
The hard landscaping clearly defines areas for cars and pedestrians.
"The concept of the ""urban forest"" is gaining ground in the UK."
A bold approach to planting, with tree and shrubs established very early in the development process, can deliver a wide range of benefits.
This years winner of the NUFU award shows the way that substantial tree and woodland planting can enclose and shelter a housing neighbourhood, integrate the new homes into their surroundings and make being outside an altogether more enjoyable experience for young and old alike.
Other award winners Hainault Drive, Verwood Biodiversity Bovis Homes promotes biodiversity Careful integration of existing mature trees into the by working to ensure that new developments design and layout of the development creates a harmonise with the existing environment.
Great care is pleasant and attractive environment.
taken to minimise the impact of new developments on Stonehills, Tewkesbury wildlife.
The Group actively promotes biodiversity at its The scheme features good cycleway links throughout development sites by protecting and enhancing and good use of contrasting road surfacing to existing wildlife habitats, and by creating new wildlife delineate the entrances to closes.
Page 18 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Wildlife conservation Following consultation between Bovis Homes As a responsible developer, Bovis Homes takes all ecological consultants, English Nature and the ecological issues extremely seriously.
Vegetation and Forestry Commission, it was agreed that Lee Ground ecological surveys are carried out on potential Coppice, within Botley Woods Site of Special Scientific development sites to ascertain the likely presence of Interest SSSI, could be used as a receptor site for notable plant communities and protected species such the reptiles.
as great crested newts, badgers, reptiles, bats and birds.
Where such species are found, the Company ensures that the necessary steps are taken to ensure their long-term survival.
This may involve sustainable habitat management of retained areas within a development site or, in some cases, the translocation of animals to protected sites such as nature reserves.
As part of the translocation exercise, Bovis Homes agreed to fund a habitat enhancement project, which will not only provide a wider habitat for reptiles, but also go towards improving this SSSI site.
The habitat enhancement project included significant scrub clearance, tree felling, footpath widening, ring deer and rabbit fencing and coppice maintenance.
Fifty dormouse boxes were also provided by Bovis Homes, to enable long-term monitoring of this priority species in Lee Ground Coppice.
Nesting birds stop construction Habitat and species protection and provision A pair of pied wagtails made a rather unusual home Bovis Homes avoids developing sites that support under the floorboards of a house that was under important wildlife habitats.
However, development construction at Welton Grange, Brough.
The site sites can sometimes support wildlife that is protected manager immediately contacted the Royal Society for or is locally significant.
In this instance, Bovis Homes the Protection of Birds RSPB and, in accordance with liaises closely with English Nature and other their advice, called a halt to construction for a month conservation agencies.
This ensures important flora to avoid disturbing the nest site.
The nesting pair and fauna are safeguarded by sympathetic mitigation successfully incubated and hatched their eggs and the measures that are in accordance with the appropriate fledgling birds were given every opportunity to find legislation.
Wildlife mitigation measures incorporated their wings before construction recommenced.
into development schemes often result in a net gain Reptile translocation project, Whiteley, Hampshire for wildlife.
An ecological survey in Whiteley, Hampshire, revealed the presence of slow-worms and common lizards on a Bovis Homes site, which needed to be translocated to Pictures on this page were kindly supplied by Andrew Shaw a suitable new habitat.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 19 Proposed development on the former Gloucester Trading Estate Bovis Homes is proposing to develop the site of the former Gloucester Trading Estate.
Although this is a brown site, which is allocated for residential development, there are a number of environmental issues impacting on the site.
Working with specialist consultants, Bovis Homes has carefully considered these environmental issues during the development of a recent planning application.
There are just ten freestanding trees on the site, which Bovis Homes arboriculturalist identified as veteran The identification of pairs of barn owls, little owls and oaks of some note, which support a range of insects tawny owls has also prompted protective measures.
Bovis Homes entomologist also found some order to provide mitigation for the potential loss of important insect species on the proposed development feeding habitat, Bovis Homes has purchased a 74 acre site.
These included the pseudoscorpion, the flax-flee site outside the boundary of the proposed beetle, the bean beetle, the red and black click beetle development.
This compensatory site forms part of an and the tree ant.
Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty, which is adjacent to the proposed brown development site.
The Company has erected a number of nesting boxes and implemented a management regime to encourage the birds off-site and onto the mitigation area.
As a result of these findings, Bovis Homes included an appropriate buffer zone within the planning application, which amounts to an area of approximately nine acres of safeguarded land.
Consultations with English Nature confirmed that this buffer zone should provide adequate protection for both the trees and the invertebrates.
Tawny owl picture kindly supplied by Wise Owl Publications.
Page 20 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Compensatory habitat at Exminster, Devon Wellingtonia Park, Exeter An ecological survey confirmed the presence of rare Bovis Homes Wellingtonia Park development was wasp spiders on Bovis Homes Swallowfields named after one of the many interesting trees development site in Exminster, Devon.
The Company retained on this Exeter site.
identified a suitable compensatory habitat for the Although the site had most recently been home to the spiders, so that they could be translocated.
former Princess Elizabeth Hospital, it was once the The translocation project was very successful and family home of the internationally famous Veitch further ecological surveys have confirmed that the family, who were instrumental in sending out plant wasp spiders have become established in their new collectors to America, China and Japan.
The development site has a very large number of trees, predominantly conifers, which were protected during the development process, and have been retained.
One of the rarest trees on the site is the Wellingtonia, which is thought to have been planted in 1853 and was one of the first of this species to be introduced into Europe.
The Wellingtonia is known as the tallest tree in the world, growing up to 365 feet in some cases.
Land around Exminster is also very important for a rare bird, the cirl bunting.
There are only 450 pairs of this attractive species in the UK and Exminster holds the most northerly population.
Bovis Homes worked with the RSPB and Teignbridge District Council to provide replacement feeding and breeding sites for cirl buntings, close to the Swallowfields development site.
Scrub and hedges were retained, and new hedges planted to provide nest sites.
Rough grassland was managed to provide insect food and an area was cultivated for spring barley to provide winter stubble feeding areas.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 21 Quenby Park, Leicestershire SUDS schemes work by allowing water from roofs, An ecological survey confirmed the presence of a large roads and car parks to soak through the ground into badger population on Bovis Homes' proposed the water table, rather than being channelled, through development at Quenby Park, Burton Lazars, near drains, into rivers.
Depending on the location and type of development, SUDS will normally include drainage measures such as: roof water collection in water butts, for garden watering: remaining roof water directed into shallow soakaway channels: car parks and driveways constructed from permeable materials: water from roads channelled, with controlled flow levels and silt removal, into nearby water courses.
Environmental benefits include: After extensive consultation with English Nature, recharging of the water table: Burton Lazars Badger Group, Burton Lazars Parish Council and both the Borough and County's Planning preservation of nearby areas of natural habitat: Authorities, Bovis Homes included an appropriate lower volume of water flowing into rivers and building exclusion zone within the planning consequent reduction to the risk of flooding application.
The exclusion zone is designed to compared with traditional schemes : safeguard both the badgers themselves and their less pollution from car oil, washing water etc.
habitat, which they have created over some time.
The compared to traditional schemes: proposed employment of specially-designed fencing on adjacent plots will aid the protection of this habitat reduction in silt damage to downstream water and also allow the badgers roaming opportunities.
Water conservation Bovis Homes recognises the importance of water conservation and has contributed to a number of water conservation initiatives.
Rain water butts, which can be used for garden watering and car washing, are being installed as a standard feature on an increasing number of new developments.
Bovis Homes supports the ethos of returning the maximum amount of water naturally to the earths substrata.
The Groups use of Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems SUDS continues to increase.
The Group has adopted these new drainage systems to comply with the Environment Agencys strategy on reducing the impact of new developments on the environment, and on the drainage system.
Page 22 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Beech Avenue, Swanley void ratio of 95%, thereby reducing the size of Bovis Homes Swanley development features 32 soakaway, whilst increasing the volume available for residential dwellings on the site of former school storage.
The units are encased in a geotextile fabric playing fields, within an established residential area.
and surrounded in coarse sand to provide filtration and prevent the migration of fine materials into the The Company has chosen to implement a SUDS units from the sub-soils.
scheme for this development with the following objectives: Recycling roof water via water butts located on the rear elevation of each house prevent reduce the quantity of surface water runoff leaving the area by source control measures: Rainwater downpipes are fitted with a valve, which allows rainwater to be diverted into the butt and, provide sufficient storage volume to accommodate when full, switches the water into the drainage storm periods based on a 1 in 100 year storm system.
event : Permeable pavement construction for all private improve the quality of surface water run-off by drives and car parking courts filtration and infiltration methods.
Roads and private drives are constructed using an open-jointed type concrete block Aquaflow, which is bedded upon crushed stone and upon a sub-base of open graded stone encased in geotextile fabric.
This construction allows water to percolate through the structure and infiltrate directly into the sub-soil.
Traditional chamber soakaways for some roads Granular backfill and geotextile fabric are used to provide filtration, prior to infiltration into the subsoils.
Environmental benefits at Swanley are: recharging the natural groundwater: the re-use of rainwater for household use: reduction in quantity of run-off to watercourses: improvement to the quality of the run-off.
The SUDS design will implement a combination of the following: Roof water to a shallow trench soakaway system Soakaways are constructed using the acquacell unit principle to replace the traditional stone fill.
These units are formed using recycled plastics and provide a Picture kindly supplied by Wavin Plastics Ltd, drawing kindly supplied by Formpave.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 23 Use of timber Bovis Homes appreciates that Energy efficiency Bovis Homes understands the timber from unsustainable sources leads to total life cycle impact of its products.
The Group is deforestation, which significantly contributes to therefore careful to include sustainability concepts, global warming and has a negative effect on where possible, in the specification and design of new communities.
The use of timber, as a construction homes.
The Standard Assessment Procedure SAP is material, has fallen significantly within the Bovis the Government's recommended system for home Homes Group.
This reduction is due to technological energy rating.
The SAP for energy rating of dwellings advances in material specification.
is a calculation of a buildings energy efficiency.
SAP ratings are scored on a scale from 1 to 120, where 1 is The Forestry Stewardship Councils FSCs timber the worst and 120 the best.
The Carbon Index is a certification scheme meets the WWFs criteria as an measure of the domestic energy efficiency linked to international system of credible certification.
Bovis the carbon emissions from a property.
It is based on Homes completed a pilot study into the source, and the annual CO emission figure calculated in relation 2 often complex route to market, of the timber species to the floor area.
The Index is expressed on a scale of remaining in the Groups products.
The results of the 0 to 10, with a higher number representing higher pilot study indicated that FSC certified timber has yet to average energy efficiency.
Each one of Bovis Homes realise full market potential.
The study also indicated core housing designs achieves a minimum SAP rating that the remaining timber, of non FSC certification, was of 80, as illustrated below: inevitably sourced into the UK by companies operating an environmental timber purchasing policy.
"These House type Rating Carbon index companies generally promote sustainability and legal sourcing, and their timber is often certificated under 2 bedroom, 2 storey ""Taranto"" 103 8.3 another scheme."
"3 bedroom, 2 storey ""Beardsley"" 93 7.3 Now that the existing position has been established, Bovis Homes can work with suppliers to encourage 3 bedroom, 3 storey ""Blackmore"" 92 7.1 and promote FSC certified products into Group usage."
"3 bedroom, 3 storey ""Stretton"" 88 6.8 Examples of numerous cases of ongoing dialogue include Bovis Homes provider of kitchen furniture, 3 bedroom, 3 storey ""Ashridge"" 93 7.2 who is currently working on securing a chain of custody for all of their suppliers materials."
"3 bedroom, 3 storey ""Bradbury"" 92 7.1 Additionally, they are members of the WWF 95 Group, which actively promotes and facilitates 4 bedroom, 2 storey ""Alexander"" 85 6.5 increased trade in independently, credibly certified 4 bedroom, 2 storey ""Harriett"" 89 6.9 forest products, and encourages good forest management worldwide."
"Similarly Bovis Homes is 4 bedroom, 2 storey ""Eliot"" 87 6.7 working with chipboard suppliers to obtain FSC certification."
"4 bedroom, 2 storey ""Faraday"" 87 6.7 4 bedroom, 2 storey ""Albany"" 89 6.8 1 4 bedroom, 2 2 storey ""Faulkner"" 88 6.8 1 4 bedroom, 2 2 storey ""Melville"" 81 6.1 1 4 bedroom, 2 2 storey ""Mortimer"" 81 6.1 1 4 bedroom, 2 2 storey ""Beaumont"" 87 6.7 Page 24 Bovis Homes Group PLC www."
"uk Recycling Bovis Homes aims to minimise waste in House type Rating Carbon index offices and on development sites, wherever possible, 4 bedroom, 2 storey ""Cheyney"" 80 6.0 and is involved in a number of recycling initiatives."
"Bovis Homes office staff are encouraged to recycle 1 5 bedroom 2 2 storey ""Chaucer"" 80 6.0 paper and cardboard waste, together with used printer toner cartridges."
"Several recycling schemes are in 1 5 bedroom 2 2 storey ""Howard"" 90 7.4 operation at our regional offices."
"Regional recycling practices tend to vary slightly, because of differences 5 bedroom, 2 storey ""Gaskell"" 82 6.2 in their office waste service providers."
"1 5 bedroom 2 2 storey ""Fenimore"" 89 7.3 2 bedroom ""Ruskin"" apartment type A 98 7.9 2 bedroom ""Ruskin"" apartment type B 97 7.7 1 ""room-in-the-roof"" products are of 2 2 storey construction."
Bovis Homes purchasers are supplied with this energy efficiency information.
Bovis Homes is currently building properties to ECO Homes PASS standard on selected affordable housing developments at Bristol, Banbury and Leighton Buzzard, with additional schemes planned for Exeter, Torquay, Shireoaks, Sharnbrook and Retford.
Office waste recycling at Cleeve Hall Domestic appliances white goods manufacturers are A new office waste service provider was appointed required by law to display European Union EU enegy during 2003 to recycle paper and cardboard waste labels.
Appliances are rated on a scale of A to G, with from Bovis Homes Cleeve Hall office, Bishops Cleeve, A being the most efficient and G the least.
Group specifies a minimum requirement of B for energy and A for laundry performance.
Office waste is collected from two separate skips, one of which is exclusively reserved for paper and cardboard waste.
Separate colour-coded bins have been provided in individual offices and staff are asked to separate waste accordingly.
Toner cartridges are collected, for recycling purposes, by a charity, which is rewarded financially for doing so.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 25 Computer recycling at this plant, following checking and cleaning, to Bovis Homes Information Technology Department ensure that there is no contamination.
The ensures that redundant computer equipment is reused plasterboard waste is broken down into a fine powder within the Group, wherever possible, or removed and which is then re-introduced, in a controlled blend, into recycled.
The Group uses a number of regional the manufacturing process.
Bovis Homes is carefully recycling service providers who are able to dispose of monitoring the pilot schemes and receives regular IT equipment safely and effectively.
information, from British Gypsum, about waste bag collections, despatches, contaminations and average bag weights.
If the pilot schemes prove successful, recycling may be extended to additional development sites in the future.
Recycling demolition arisings On a number of brown development sites, Bovis Homes has used crushed and recycled demolition arisings to provide road stone.
By crushing and recycling the concrete on site, Bovis Homes is able to minimise the use of primary aggregates - thus reducing quarrying, vehicle movements to and from site, and the need for landfill sites.
Materials, from the disused runway at Bovis Homes Salisbury Village development in Hatfield, were crushed and re-used on site and Bovis Homes has Where possible, the redundant computer systems are operated similar aggregate recycling schemes on a refurbished and resold by the recycling companies, or number of other development sites including offered to local charities.
Faulty items that cannot be Faversham, Kent where approximately 10,000 cubic repaired are broken down, so that useful materials can metres of aggregate was recycled : Reigate, Surrey be reclaimed and recycled.
where approximately 2,000 cubic metres was Plasterboard recycling pilot schemes recycled : Redhill, Surrey where approximately 1,500 Working with British Gypsum, Bovis Homes has been cubic metres was recycled : and Edenbridge, Kent trialling plasterboard recycling on development sites where approximately 4,000 cubic metres was at Hatfield, Hertfordshire: South Gorleston, Norfolk: recycled.
Edenbridge, Kent: and Hinchley Wood, Surrey.
British Gypsum supplies bags for the collection of the plasterboard waste and Bovis Homes site managers are responsible for ensuring that they are filled with plasterboard offcuts.
The site managers are also responsible for ensuring the cleanliness and integrity of the waste.
A scrap reclamation plant has been in operation for some time at one of British Gypsums major manufacturing facilities.
Plasterboard waste returned from Bovis Homes developments is recycled Page 26 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk its three aircrete production plants: Borough Green in Choice of products The conservation and Kent: Westbury in Wiltshire and Pollington in considered use of resources is also of concern to Bovis Yorkshire.
This addresses all aspects of the H H Homes approved suppliers.
The Group chooses to work Celcons business which may affect the environment.
with other environmentally responsible organisations, The new plant at Pollington has been specifically many of which hold ISO International Organisation designed to achieve the highest standards of for Standardisation 14001 Environmental efficiency and environmental performance, Management Standard certifications.
incorporating energy conservation and heat recovery H H Celcon measures wherever possible.
H H Celcon takes great care that its products and manufacturing processes are environmentally friendly.
Ibstock Brick Ltd Celcon blocks, the Thin-Joint System and Jmer, Ibstock Brick was the first UK brick manufacturer to which have all been used by Bovis Homes, are major have all of its manufacturing sites recommended for contributors to reducing energy consumption in registration to ISO 14001 the International Standard heating, or cooling, a building.
Being of fairly high for Environmental Management Systems after density compared to framed structures, aircrete independent verification by British Standards provides a significant thermal mass effect, so that Institute.
extreme highs and lows of temperature are evened Ibstock Brick is a UK-based manufacturer of clay bricks out.
Being easily and accurately cut on site, aircrete and associated walling components.
In the conduct of keeps waste to a minimum.
its operations, Ibstock Brick is committed to continuous improvement in environmental performance.
Ibstock Brick seeks to prevent pollution of the environment by the adoption of processes, practices, materials and control mechanisms, which maximise the efficient use of resources.
Ibstock Brick also seeks to reduce emissions to the lowest level consistent with the industry best practice.
In the manufacturing process the major raw material is pulverised fuel ash, a by-product of coal-fired power stations.
H H Celcon therefore uses another industrys waste to manufacture its products.
H H Celcon has now been awarded the prestigious ISO 14001 Environmental Management Standard certification for Picture kindly supplied by H H Celcon.
"Picture kindly supplied by Ibstock Brick Ltd. Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 27 Minimising pollution Bovis Homes understands A safer environment Bovis Homes is that the housebuilding sector is rated as high impact incorporating an increasing number of ""Home Zones"" from risk of pollution."
The Group has accordingly on developments across the country.
A Home Zone is developed control measures including: essentially a street that has been designed to enable people to move around safely, rather than just a place proprietary bunded fuel oil storage tanks: for traffic to pass.
"Children and pedestrians have ""no burning on site"" policy: priority over traffic, which is restricted in speed and access by the design of the road including street mud dust management regime, designed for every furniture, raised planting areas and the surrounding scheme: landscape."
optimum mechanical plant selection policy: maximum load delivery sizes to minimize vehicle movements.
Home Zones are designed to improve the quality of life for residents and strengthen the sense of community, by turning the residential street into a valued open space, which is safe for people to use - including children at play, cyclists and pedestrians.
Working in partnership with housing associations, Bovis Homes has made security and crime reduction a high priority.
Security features have been incorporated into the design of several new developments.
Page 28 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Evenlode Road, Tuffley Wellingtonia Park, Exeter Working in partnership with Bromford Housing Group, Working in partnership with Signpost Housing Gloucester City Council and the Gloucestershire Association and Devon and Cornwall Constabulary, Constabulary, Bovis Homes incorporated a number of Bovis Homes was successful in creating another security and crime reduction features on a new Secured by Design Award-winning development in development in Tuffley, Gloucestershire.
The project involved 21 tenanted houses at Wellingtonia Park in Exeter.
Bovis Homes received praise for design, specification, layout and build, that has helped to improve community safety and domestic security.
The development was designed, planned and built to stringent Secured by Design Standards laid down by the Association of Chief Police Officers ACPO.
Features incorporated in the design of the development included: special landscaping to enable surveillance of parking areas, roads and pathways: appropriate lighting: secure locks on doors and windows: secure and private back gardens.
During its design and build, the development was monitored and assessed by an architectural liaison officer from the local police force, who ensured that it met the stringent ACPO standards.
Having successfully adhered to the required security standards, Bovis Homes was presented with a Secured by Design Award by Gloucestershire Constabulary.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 29 A competition to design a safety sign and slogan Commitment to the community In addition attracted more than 100 entries.
The winning posters to creating attractive new residential communities, were displayed on the perimeter of the construction Bovis Homes regularly contributes to the development site, to warn of building site dangers and encourage of existing communities.
"Over the years, the Group has the local community to ""stay safe""."
made financial contributions to many community projects, and provided a variety of new local facilities.
The school safety initiatives have been very well The needs of the local community are always received and publicised in the local press, increasing considered during the development planning process.
safety awareness within the community.
New footpaths, cycleways, play areas, substantial areas Following on from the success of the Horfield school of public open space, and other beneficial features safety project, Bovis Homes Health, Safety and have been provided at developments across the Environmental Consultative Committee has agreed a country.
proposal to develop further school safety materials.
Here are some specific examples of the Groups recent Exminster Colts Football Team contributions: Bovis Homes recently sponsored the Exminster Colts, a Upper Horfield Primary School, Bristol 14-strong under-11s village football team, whose Bovis Homes has been working with pupils from Upper clubhouse and ground is adjacent to the Companys Horfield Primary School in Bristol to promote site Swallowfields development in Exminster.
The school is just a few yards from Bovis Homes Rowling Gate development, which will provide some 800 new homes.
Many of the pupils homes will be rebuilt as part of the regeneration scheme.
Bovis Homes' staff visited the school to inform children about the dangers of playing on building sites and to advise them how to keep safe during the period of regeneration.
The children have also been invited to participate in some highly successful competitions.
Barry Island Firework Extravaganza Bovis Homes supported the Rotary Club of Barry Island with its annual firework extravaganza.
The Club wrote to the Company appealing for help in meeting event costs after a drop in donations from both the public and local companies.
The event was the 31st firework display to be held at Nells Point by the Rotarians and is a popular community event, attracting over 15,000 spectators from the Barry area.
Page 30 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk was no longer required and was destined for the auction room.
When Bovis Homes heard of the Hospices appeal for furniture, it redirected its unwanted items to them.
Regional charities From 1st January 2004, the staff in each Bovis Homes region have been invited to adopt a favourite local charity, which they will be encouraged to support throughout the year.
Charity champions have been appointed in each region, to co-ordinate fundraising efforts and organise team-building charity events.
A charity budget has been allocated to each region, Wivenhoe Town Regatta which will be used to fund local activities.
Bovis Homes was pleased to provide sponsorship for NHBC Charity Challenge Wivenhoe Town Regatta Week, which raised money Bovis Homes entered a team in the NHBC Charity for the St Helena Hospice.
The Regatta has been an Challenge, which raised money for Mencap, the UKs annual tradition in Wivenhoe since at least 1891. leading learning disability charity.
The team of five Charitable donations Bovis Homes' staff regularly participate in charity fundraising events.
"Their efforts are frequently supported by Bovis Homes and publicised in the Groups glossy in-house magazine ""Update news""."
Sue Ryder Care Hospice, Cheltenham Bovis Homes recently provided the Sue Ryder Care Hospice at Cheltenham with a delivery of ex-show home furniture to help revamp some of its bedroom and visitor areas.
The furniture, which included a selection of bedside cabinets, chests and easy chairs, volunteers competed in the two day walking event in Northumberland, which involved a combination of physical and mental challenges along the way.
Bovis Homes Challenge team not only returned victorious, with a winners trophy, they also succeeded in raising more than 10,000 for Mencap.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 31 Environmental management Bovis Homes acknowledges that the housebuilding sector is ranked as having high environmental impact.
The Group fully accepts its social and ethical responsibility to define, and then eliminate, or mitigate environmental risks and effects.
The Group operates an environmental management system covering governance, management of risk, impact on the environment, and impact on society.
"Details are contained in a separately published document entitled ""Bovis Homes Environmental Management""."
Principal contents of the document are the Environmental Policy and Policy Statement, the Environmental Effects document and resultant Best Practice Procedures and Checklists.
The Environmental Effects document is a critical self-analysis of Bovis Homes business activities.
It is the primary step in the formulation of an effective environmental management system.
Once identified, the environmental risks were critically analysed with a view to mitigating the risks and effects.
This led to the formulation of a clear policy, backed up by procedures and checklists that are easily understood by operational staff and translated into demonstrable actions to support sustainable development.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 33 The ten cornerstones drawn from the Policy are: Effective and efficient use of development land The original target contained within the 1.
Plan for the effective and efficient use of Environmental Policy was 12,000 sq ft of living space development land: per developable acre across all schemes, to be 2.
Design for minimum waste: monitored year on year for improvement.
Aim for lean, effective and efficient construction: 4.
Minimise energy consumption in construction: Year Target Achieved 5.
Minimise energy consumption in life cycle usage: 6.
Protect and wherever possible improve the environment: 2002 15,300 15,313 10.
2003 15,700 15,932 Targets, together with progress on targets, appear later 2004 16,250 - in this report.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Consultative Committee continually reviews the management Significant progress has been made in this key area, in system, aided by specialist environmental working accordance with Government policy, for the effective parties.
The Committee is chaired in annual rotation by and efficient use of the precious commodity of a director of Bovis Homes Limited.
Board commitment Ultimate responsibility for With continued effective design and development all Corporate Social Responsibilities CSR lies with the planning, the Group has set a target of 16,250 square Board of Bovis Homes Group PLC.
A named director feet per developable acre for 2004. has therefore been appointed to liaise with the The Group continues to review and develop new executive level Committee.
Additional room-in-the-roof units, medium rise apartments, four storey dwellings and Environmental targets During 2000 a number coach house apartments will assist the Group in of practical targets were set out within the achieving these efficient land use targets.
Environmental Policy, aimed at achieving tangible improvement in key areas.
This is the third year that Development of brown previously used the targets have been monitored and data published.
land New targets have been introduced in this The number of targets has again been increased.
important area, which is also a key Government target.
During 2003 the targets were again progressively Historically, Bovis Homes business profile and monitored.
geographic area of operation has constrained Prosecutions for breach of environmental increases in brown land development.
The table below legislation This is a new target in an important illustrates that significant progress is now being made.
Year % of legally completed units on brown land Year Prosecutions secured or pending 2002 historical 33% 2000 Historical data Nil 2003 historical 35% 2001 Historical data Nil 2004 target outlook 38% 2002 Historical data Nil 2003 Actual Nil 2004 Outlook Nil Page 34 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Waste management streamlining on site using Wastage level of materials The original colour coded skips to segregate into active and objective contained within the Environmental Policy non-active categories, promoting re-use of non was to minimise the wastage level of materials and active brick earth and cementicious waste measure performance.
products: In the year 2000 the site wastage, expressed financially, amounted to 6% of all materials the Group Development of optimum material storage facilities purchased.
on site, including standard model compound layouts: At the end of 2003, the Group was on course to meet the target to reduce the wastage sum to 5.5% by the Pilot schemes for collection of plasterboard by end of 2004. manufacturers for recycling and reprocessing on sites at Hatfield, Gorleston, Edenbridge and Hinchley Wood: Pilot schemes to engage specialist environmental waste management contractors to remove remaining non reusable waste - having the ability for compactor collections and the potential to further stream the waste and recycle.
Energy consumption in Bovis Homes offices The target contained within the Environmental Policy is to reduce energy consumption in Bovis Homes offices.
In the base year of 2000, a 5% reduction was set for the consumption of gas and electricity.
Last year Bovis Homes reported a reduction in gas consumption on 2000 levels.
The Company reported a marginal increase in electricity consumption, in line During 2003 the Group commenced the with staff numbers and the increase in trading activity.
implementation of waste reduction recommendations, In 2003 the consumption of gas was 13.5% below arising out of a strategic report to reduce waste, 2000 levels on a per capita basis.
Electricity usage in commissioned in 2002.
These initiatives included: 2003 showed a decrease on 2002, but was 0.6% ahead Diligence in design criteria to minimise waste, of 2000 levels on a per capita basis.
including intensive pre-construction phase design Going forward, the Group is confident that energy review: usage can be contained in line with trading activity More effective identification, salvage and re-use of and staff numbers.
material arising from demolition schemes: It is now the Groups intention to measure water Engagement with suppliers to reduce packaging consumption in its regional offices and target future waste, transport waste, handling waste, and waste reductions.
A reduction target of 5% has been set for in use - including pre-fabrication and pre-finishing 2004, again on a per capita basis.
Intelligent flush of building components: control valves are fitted in all regional premises.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 35 Health and safety management Bovis Homes operates an integrated and comprehensive health and safety management system, as defined in the Health and Safety Policy document.
The system aims to achieve best practice and provides a systematic vehicle for risk control, and for ensuring legislative compliance throughout the business.
"The management system is modelled on the guidance afforded by the Health and Safety Executive HSE, as set out in health and safety guidance note 65 ""Successful Health and Safety Management""."
Stephen Brazier, Group Operations Director and a member of the Board, is designated as having responsibility at Group level for health, safety and environmental matters.
Health and safety is a standing agenda item at regional and main board level.
The driving force for the furtherance of health and safety standards is provided by the Health, Safety and Environmental Consultative Committee.
The Committee is chaired, in annual rotation, by a director of Bovis Homes Limited, to ensure that fresh ideas, direction and initiatives are continually introduced, assessed and, when proven, implemented on a consistent basis.
The chairperson during 2004 is Geoff Coleman, Managing Director of South East region.
The chairperson is aided by an in-house qualified health and safety practitioner, an experienced team of operational executives, and external independent professional advisers.
These advisers provide innovation, objective and independent judgement to complement the internal structure and culture.
Following the Health, Safety and Environmental Consultative Committee meetings, there are regional quarterly health and safety meetings.
These meetings are attended by representatives from across the business, including subcontractors on occasion.
All meetings are minuted and action points recorded.
The Committee regularly reviews performance and proactively promulgates new initiatives to stimulate and improve practices.
Accordingly, the Committee reports on 2003, providing disclosure and transparency on health and safety performance, and targets and objectives for 2004.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 37 Bovis Homes is committed to maintaining and Review of the Year 2003 Accident statistics improving excellence in health and safety, and rewards including subcontractors employees those who lead by example.
"The health and safety 2000 2001 2002 2003 competition entitled ""Bovis Homes Safety Marathon"" gives recognition to sites achieving standards of RIDDOR reportable 31 29 33 29 health and safety excellence."
The competition was over 3 day injuries concluded in 2003 as follows: Under 3 days lost time injuries 5 2 4 4 Bovis Homes region Winning sites Total lost time accidents 36 31 37 33 Northern Sale, Winsford, Congleton Fatalities 0 0 0 0 Central Cambourne Retirement Living scheme Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations South West Banbury, Barton, Cardiff and Horfield Accidents were investigated in accordance with Group policy and results reviewed by the Committee.
Where Lowestoft, Mill Hill Retirement Living scheme, South East appropriate, actions were taken to prevent recurrence.
Whiteley and Wivenhoe Prosecutions and Fines There were no prosecutions or fines imposed on the Winning site teams were awarded cash prizes and Group during 2003.
500 towards a social event for the site team, including all subcontractors on site.
Bovis Homes 2000 2001 2002 2003 team members were also presented with the coveted gold award winners fleece jacket.
Presentations were Fines and prosecutions 0 0 0 0 made at regional Christmas dinner dances.
During 2003, the Group carried out the fourth in a The Group was awarded pre-qualification status, in series of SMART audits Safety Management Audit respect of the internal health and safety management Review Techniques with compound statistical system, by the respected Construction Line Scheme.
Full debrief sessions were undertaken During 2003 the Committee produced a pocket-sized and communicated to all levels of the business.
"booklet entitled ""Health, safety and environmental October 2003 saw the introduction of Site best practice"" to maintain awareness amongst all Management Best Practice programmes, with employees."
The Booklet was distributed to all existing substantial focus on the integral elements of health, employees.
New employees are given a copy as part of safety and environmental best practice to strengthen their induction.
Bovis Homes recognises that safety is the Groups performance.
not solely a site-based issue and that every member of staff has responsibility for increasing health and safety The Group was awarded the Royal Society for the standards, e. g. through the design of site layouts.
"Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold Medal and the British Safety Council BSC National Award for the In October, the Committee published and distributed 7th consecutive year, demonstrating high health and ""Building a house safely a reference guide for site safety standards."
"managers"", which had been completely revised and updated."
This incorporated a large pictorial element, to During 2003, the Committee revised the existing promote communication and awareness of policy and training policy to progressively enrol all site managers, best practice.
assistants, finishing foremen and site management trainees on to a rolling programme to undertake the Construction Industry Training Board CITB 5-day course, leading to the nationally recognised SMSTS Site Managers Safety Training Scheme qualification.
Page 38 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk For the furtherance of improved welfare conditions, Outlook for 2004 The Group is looking forward the Committee is piloting the installation of air to supporting the House Builders Federations HBF conditioning units in site offices, canteens and mobile Health and Safety Working Group and Health and sales units.
Safety Forum, in the launch and implementation of the House Builders Health and Safety Charter.
This has The three main areas of focus in 2004 are: been developed in response to the Governments 1.
Communication with the workforce - the Company initiative Revitalising Health and Safety.
"magazine ""Update news"" will be strengthened by a The vision is a housing sector which provides a built monthly on-line newsletter: environment that is: 2."
Bench-marking the safety performance of 1. safe by design: subcontractors.
A final scheme of bench-marking 2. safe to construct: subcontractors will be introduced by the 3. safe to live in: Committee: and 4. safe to maintain: 3.
Improved mechanical handling techniques and through co-operation with, and respect for, designers, allied safety improvements.
Target Objectives: Bovis Homes works with independent, industry Reduce the number of reportable 3-day absence respected, external health and safety advisers.
injuries year on year to meet, or improve upon, the Following a recent review, the Committee apointed HBF Charter and Government guidelines.
new advisers, who assumed their appointment on 1 January 2004.
Bovis Homes thanks the previous During 2004, through training, increase the advisers for their valuable support during 2003. percentage of site managers, assistants, finishing foremen and trainees possessing the SMSTS The Committee, in conjunction with its external qualification from 10% to 33%.
advisers, will review the current audit format, seeking improvements in the way we measure and pro-actively Review and revise the Company Policy Document identify practical improvements to our health and for health, safety and welfare.
Publish and safety management system and performance.
Bovis Homes has recently appointed an additional Review and revise the audit protocol and professionally qualified in-house health and safety methodology, and conduct one audit of the practitioner to assist and strengthen the Groups improved format by 31 December 2004. performance.
"Ensure that there are no breaches of health and The successful format of the ""Bovis Homes Safety safety legislation, or statutory duty, which results Marathon"" is already running for 2004, and the in fines or prosecution."
Committee will review the format after final feedback 2004 Target ahead of 2005, in order to maintain the profile of the Fines and prosecutions Nil competition and promote a safety culture at site level.
The Committee will undertake a complete review and update of the Group Safety Policy document, in Trial installation of air conditioning units, with heat conjunction with the external professional advisors.
pump facility, to welfare accommodation on site.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 39 domestic dwellings.
These improvements will lessen Research and development the impact of higher development densities, occasioned by Government policy, to reduce the Bovis Homes believes that continuous amount of development land required to meet improvement, through research and housing needs.
development, is key to the continuing success of the business, and is a significant factor in The Group constructed several plots incorporating delivering environmental, social and experimental acoustic constructions, which were then sustainability objectives.
Bovis Homes independently tested under the supervision of the engages with many stakeholder organisations project managers, Napier University Building including: house building industry warranty Performance Centre - a leading UK acoustic research providers and building control bodies BCBs : facility.
Test sites for various experimental the House Builders Federation HBF : the constructions included Norwich, Hatfield, Chafford Building Research Establishment BRE : and Hundred and Welton.
the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister The acoustic performance properties of the developed ODPM in respect of building regulation RSDs exceed the requirements of the latest Approved development, and we actively partner many Building Regulations - Approved Document Part E. The manufacturers and suppliers.
project managers advise that the acoustic insulation standards of new homes constructed to RSD standards enjoy the 2nd highest standard in Europe, only exceeded by Austria.
Improved thermal insulation and energy efficiency of dwellings Conservation of Energy and Power Building Regulations Part L The EU directive on the Energy Performance of Buildings EPBD and the February 2003 Energy White Paper EWP announced the Governments aim to introduce the next major review of the Building Regulations Approved Document Part L in 2005.
During 2004 Bovis Homes will appoint a full time Research and Development Director to strengthen this strategically important area of operation.
During 2003 and into 2004, Bovis Homes was actively engaged in researching practical construction solutions in many key areas.
Examples include: Improved acoustics in buildings Building Regulations Part E During 2003 the Group was heavily involved in the HBF project to develop Robust Standard Details RSDs, in order to substantially improve the acoustics insulation properties of Page 40 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
"uk One of the stated Government objectives is to ""put Significant savings can be made on construction times ourselves on a path to cut the UKs CO emissions by and future interlinked advances include the 2 some 60% by about 2050, with real progress being development of: made by 2020""."
Brick slip cladding systems, sympathetic to Accordingly, the Group is working with the HBF, sustainability issues, allied to single skin solid wall industry groups and stakeholders to develop improved construction: thermal efficiency and insulation standards through 2.
Construction sequences and techniques negating the route of RSDs.
the requirement of traditional external access During 2003, the Group continued to monitor the scaffold, facilitated by the development of development of renewable energy technology that advanced mechanical handling and access plant: could deliver renewable energy in a practical and 3.
Light weight roof coverings, of low embodied commercially acceptable way.
Trials are also being energy, which are not dependant upon aggregate undertaken with high efficiency, one piece condensing mineral extraction.
boiler and cylinder units, which are designed to be fuel The off site manufacture, pre-assembly and efficient and produce fewer emissions.
"pre-finishing of building components Our research and development programme has resulted in off site, highly-efficient fabrication and pre-finishing of building components, leading to a low labour ""assembly"" requirement on site, high quality, and low wastage."
The Groups building specification now includes the following components: Factory pre-finished, pre-glazed windows: Factory pre-finished soffits, fascias, barge boards: Factory pre-assembled, pre-finished GRP porches: Factory pre-assembled, pre-finished GRP dormers: Factory assembled pre-glazed external steel Modern building techniques During 2003 the doorsets: Group continued to trial the technique of thin-joint block work construction, which is efficient to Factory assembled, pre-glazed cassette doorsets: construct and has very good thermal and acoustic Factory assembled, pre-glazed external feature insulation properties.
The technique is promoted by doorsets: Government and is classified under Section 5 non Factory pre-finished garage doors: off-site Manufacture OSM and retains flexibility to construct complex schemes influenced by PPG3.
Water Factory pre-fabricated engineered joist sets: consumption is significantly reduced by the absence of Factory finished radiators: traditional mortar, and wastage of materials can be significantly reduced.
Factory pre-assembled stair parts balusters: New Technology snap fit plumbing: Factory pre-plumbed thermal store cylinders.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 41 A Group Training and Development Manager is Human resources responsible for developing and targeting the Groups training strategy.
This ensures that training and The Group recognises that its employees are learning activities are aligned with business strategy its most valuable asset, by virtue of their and objectives, and accordingly develop and focus knowledge, skills and expertise.
employee skills, performance and potential in key areas, supporting business success.
The advertising of internal vacancies assists in the promotion of career development opportunities.
Local job centre recruitment has also been initiated as part of the development of the Groups approach to site based team working, which has proved successful in further integrating and motivating a key element of the Groups staff.
Local labour is therefore employed wherever possible on sites and in the Groups offices.
Our employees have a wealth of ideas and potential to contribute to the development of the business.
To facilitate continuous improvement, based on staff Bovis Homes endeavours at all times to treat its input, a network of review groups operates to harness employees in an ethical, socially responsible and experience and deliver improvement throughout the equitable manner, stimulating and motivating them to business.
The groups consist of a regional managing aspire to and achieve their full potential.
Policies and director as chairman, a facilitator and group members procedures within Bovis Homes facilitate this chosen from different disciplines.
Three review groups transparent process and ensure that employees are currently meet - being build, sales and technical.
In treated with dignity and respect.
addition, the regional heads of department meet as single discipline groups with the objective of ensuring Bovis Homes is an equal opportunities employer and that standardisation is maintained throughout the applications for employment from handicapped and Group, and improving their practices and procedures disabled persons are welcomed, particularly where as they recommend.
Accordingly, finance, legal, reasonable adjustments can be made and the surveying, personnel and training, and customer care requirements of the job may be adequately covered.
All employees have clear employment terms and written job specifications outlining key duties, responsibilities and clear lines of communication.
Comprehensive induction procedures have been designed to ensure that new staff are supported and quickly integrated.
Salaried staff participate in performance and development reviews and are encouraged to take responsibility for their self development training plans.
These reviews and plans promote open discussion and clarity about expectations, allowing positive communication and ensuring employee involvement, performance development and job satisfaction.
Page 42 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Specialist groups also operate as follows: The Company provides private medical insurance for all staff who have served the relevant eligibility period.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Consultative There are currently over 400 staff covered by the scheme.
Committee monitors and maintains the high health and safety and environmental standards expected The Company also meets the cost of health screening from both our offices and sites: for eligible staff.
The design group reviews the requirements for new Modern office facilities are also assisting productivity products and the new and existing housing range: and communication and provide a pleasant open plan working environment suited to modern technology.
The procurement group reviews major material The Coleshill office has been in operation for eighteen purchase agreements and specifications in months and the new office for the Northern region at consultation with the Sales and Marketing group: Cheadle Hulme, south of Manchester, has been and occupied since March 2004.
The interior design group meets to review show house designs and other matters relating to the interior dcor of the Groups products.
Communication and engagement with employees is key to optimum performance and the success of the business.
"Regularly updated handbooks, departmental and regional staff meetings, conferences, maintained notice boards and an employee Company magazine ""Update news"", all promote understanding and involvement."
The Group completed its first staff opinion survey during 2003 and this achieved a satisfactory response In accordance with good governance procedures, staff rate.
"The survey forms were completed on an have confidential access to a whistle blowing anonymous basis and the questions covered categories arrangement, which includes measures for the entitled ""management and communications"", proportionate and independent investigation of ""leadership"", ""my personal interest"", ""my work"", matters raised and for appropriate follow-up action."
"""conditions of employment"" and ""motivation""."
"Over Staff also have access to a member of senior 90% of respondents said that they had a clear management as a ""listening ear"", in order to discuss understanding of the Groups objectives, about how concerns about any aspect of their employment."
their work contributed to the business, and believed Details of both facilities are widely publicised.
that their role could make a difference to the success of the Group.
The key findings have been taken Pensioners welfare forward in the development of ideas and initiatives to Bovis Homes maintains regular contact with all its address the lower scoring areas.
"Retired staff receive a copy of the Groups quarterly in-house magazine, ""Update news""."
The To encourage and facilitate participation in the annual pensioners reunion, which takes place at a business, the Group operates appropriate bonus and London hotel, provides pensioners with an opportunity share incentive arrangements.
From a total of 780 staff, to meet up with former colleagues and Company hosts almost 300 are participating in the SAYE share option to enjoy a pleasant lunch.
There are also a number of scheme, and there are approximately 350 employees in regional reunion activities during the year, involving each of the 2001 and 2002 profit sharing scheme site or office visits and lunches.
Free shares were awarded to almost 500 eligible employees in 2003, under the Share Incentive Plan, and approximately 125 staff are participating in the partnership share element of that Plan.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 43 Employees are required to understand and act in Social and ethical conduct accordance with the Groups social and ethical standards, and to exercise their judgement and carry As outlined in the Groups Ethical Code of out their duties in accordance with the Groups Conduct, the objective at all times is to established values.
behave with integrity and operate in a socially responsible and ethical manner, respecting The Conflicts of Interest Policy states that staff are not the dignity and rights of individuals and permitted to engage in other business activities avoiding conflicts of interest.
They are also required to disclose any external business interest or commercial activity likely to create a conflict with their role and duties.
Business gifts cannot be accepted - other than items of low intrinsic value, such as diaries and calendars.
Clear policies and documents set out the social and ethical practices that Bovis Homes follows, and requires its stakeholders to follow, and a dialogue is maintained to ensure that standards are met.
The Group will continue to improve practices and introduce new initiatives in this area.
The Group will have no knowing involvement with any practice that may result in involvement in a social or ethical dilemma, and will not knowingly engage in business activity incompatible with social inclusion.
Some areas in which we have no knowing involvement, as a housebuilder operating solely in the UK, are listed below: Animal testing Alcohol Abortion clinics Fur Gambling Genetic engineering Human rights violations Intensive farming Military production and sales Mining and quarrying The Groups Customer Charter is designed to Nuclear power Political donations communicate to customers their reasonable Ozone depletion chemicals Pesticides expectations for a professional, effective and efficient service.
It sets out the commitment to home buyers, to Pornography Third world exploitation build housing to specified standards, and the Tobacco Use of tropical hardwoods performance standards to be expected during: Use of under age labour Water pollution purchase: moving into a new home: aftercare and complaint resolution.
An IT system monitors and Ordering of materials bench-marks the speed and effectiveness of our from unsustainable sources Page 44 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk response to customers concerns.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 45 Corporate social responsibility report Policies, procedures and performance Governance | Sustainability | Health and safety Environmental | Social | Ethical 2004 Bovis Homes Group PLC, The Manor House, North Ash Road, New Ash Green, Longfield, Kent DA3 8HQ.
