Notice of meeting continued Notes: i Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company gives notice that only holders of ordinary shares entered on the register no later than 6.00pm on 9 May 2005 will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Changes to entries on the register after 6.00pm on 9 May 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Shareholders of the Company may appoint one or more proxies whether members or not to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of the member.
Participants of the Bovis Homes Group PLC Profit Sharing Scheme and the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may instruct the relevant trustees to vote on their behalf on a poll.
The instrument appointing a proxy, and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority must be received at the office of the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol BS99 3FA or received via the Computershare website, www-uk.
com full details of the procedures are given on the website not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion of the proxy form will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person instead of his her proxy.
The Company will announce the level of proxy votes for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions once the resolution has been voted on by a show of hands, except where a poll is called.
When announcing a decision on a poll, the Company will disclose the total number of votes in favour and against and the number of abstentions.
If a member returns paper and electronic proxy instructions, those received last by the Registrar before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Members are advised to read the website terms and conditions of use carefully.
ii To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. iii The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours, on any weekday excluding public holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and on that date they will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.00am until the conclusion of the meeting: a copies of the directors service contracts: b copies of the terms and conditions of appointment for each non-executive director: and c the register of directors interests.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 95 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Report and accounts The directors must present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Company's auditors on the accounts are contained within the annual report and accounts.
Item 2: Directors remuneration The directors are required to present the report on directors remuneration, which sets out remuneration policy, to shareholders for approval under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report on directors remuneration can be found on pages 55 to 66 of the report and accounts.
Item 3: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 20 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 29 March 2005 and subject to the approval of items 8 and 9 at the meeting, a scrip dividend alternative will also be offered to shareholders.
Items 4 and 5: Re-appointment of directors The Company's Articles of Association require that at every Annual General Meeting one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation shall retire from office.
Sir Gerald Nigel Mobbs and David James Ritchie will retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-appointment.
The 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Sir Gerald Nigel Mobbs as a nonexecutive director, the Senior Independent Director has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during 2004 that he continues to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings and his appointment as Chairman.
Brief details of all the directors are to be found on pages 40 and 41 of the report and accounts.
Items 6 and 7: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 6 proposes the re-appointment of the Company's existing auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, for a further year.
Resolution 7 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 8: Scrip dividend alternative The Board wishes to offer shareholders the opportunity to elect to receive new ordinary shares in the Company instead of cash dividends if they so wish.
Accordingly, the approval of shareholders is sought at the Annual General Meeting to authorise the Board to offer scrip dividends as an alternative to cash dividends in respect of the recommended final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2004 and any subsequent final or interim dividends for a period of up to 5 years, if on each occasion they decide that it is in the Companys interests to do so.
Item 9: Authority to allot shares Resolution 9 renews the authority given to your directors at the last Annual General Meeting to allot relevant securities in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The authority sought is limited to an aggregate nominal amount of 15,832,014.50 being 26.76% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 11 March 2005.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 11 March 2005.
The Board has no specific plans to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes, and if resolution 8 is passed, the operation of any scrip dividend offer and any scrip dividend mandate scheme introduced by the Board.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Page 96 Bovis Homes Group PLC www.
uk Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued Item 10: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 10 seeks to renew the authority given to your directors at the last Annual General Meeting to make limited allotments of ordinary shares for cash without application of the statutory pre-emption rights which require a company to offer all allotments of ordinary shares for cash proportionately to existing shareholders first pursuant to Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985.
This power would provide the directors with the flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders when opportunities arise, so that: i the Company can follow normal practices in the event of a rights issue: and ii ordinary shares may be issued wholly for cash other than proportionately to existing ordinary shareholders up to a maximum of 2,958,399 which represents 5% of the Company's total ordinary share capital in issue as at 11 March 2005.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by Resolution 10 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 11: Authority to purchase own shares In accordance with Article 45 the directors are seeking renewal of the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 11,833,597 of its own shares representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 11 March 2005.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and ABI guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to be in the best interest of shareholders generally.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of making such purchases but, in view of the strong balance sheet position, would like to have the flexibility to consider such purchases in the future.
Any purchase of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price per share for any purchase would not be in excess of 5% above the average of the market values for an ordinary share of the Company derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for each of the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased.
The minimum price would be 50 pence being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2006.
As at 11 March 2005 there were options over 2,338,543 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 1.98% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 2.20% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
Bovis Homes Group PLC Page 97
