qxd 19 2 05 10:04 AM Page 1 Making the right choices Annual Review 2004 C11869 BPARev 2004 Covers.
qxd 18 2 05 12:45 pm Page 2 2 Performance highlights 24 Financial and business 32 Summary accounts Information for shareholders and Annual General Meeting 4 Chairmans letter operating review 38 Governance: summary 6 Group chief executives review 24 Financial performance board performance report Dividends Annual General Meeting 26 Business performance 40 Summary directors We announce dividends on our ordinary shares in US dollars and at the The 2005 annual general meeting will be held on Thursday 14 April 8 Making the right choices remuneration report same time state an equivalent sterling dividend.
The rate of exchange 2005 at 11.00 a. m. at the Royal Festival Hall, Belvedere Road, London 10 Resourcefulness on a new scale 30 Environmental and social 44 Board of directors used to determine the sterling amount equivalent is the average of SE1 8XX, UK.
A separate notice convening the meeting is sent to 14 The best routes to market performance 45 Information for shareholders the forward exchange rate in London over the five business days prior shareholders with this Review, together with an explanation of the 18 Getting closer to customers and Annual General Meeting to the announcement date.
Dividends are normally paid in March, items of special business to be considered at the meeting.
22 The point of excellence 45 Further information June, September and December.
Holders of ordinary shares receive their dividends in pounds sterling: holders of American depositary All resolutions of which notice has been given will be decided on shares ADSs receive their dividends in US dollars.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in Further information about dividends paid in 2004, forthcoming payment office as auditors and a resolution for their reappointment is included dates and taxation details can be found on our website.
in the notice of the annual general meeting.
Further information Administration UK and Rest of World If you have any queries about the administration of shareholdings, BP Distribution Services such as change of address, change of ownership, dividend payments, c o Air Action Couriers Limited the dividend reinvestment plan or the ADS direct access plan, please International Distribution Centre contact the Registrar or ADS Depositary.
Crabtree Road, Thorpe, Egham, Surrey TW20 8RS, UK Telephone: 44 0 870 241 3269 UK Registrars Office Fax: 44 0 870 240 5753 On the cover Pilar Sanchez Ramos The BP Registrar @bp.
com from BP Spain, a member of the Lloyds TSB Registrars Ultimate team that won BPs The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA To elect to receive the full Directors Report and Annual Accounts 2004 Helios Award for Innovation.
Telephone: 44 0 121 415 7005 in place of summary financial statements for all future financial years, The Helios Awards recognize the Freephone in UK: 0800 701107 please write to the UK Registrar at the address on this page.
outstanding achievements of BP Textphone: 0870 600 3950 people who have put our brand Fax: 44 0 1903 833371 To elect to receive your company documents such as Annual Review and Notice of Meeting electronically, please register at values into practice, demonstrating US ADS Administration www.
what can be gained when these JPMorgan Chase Bank values become part of our dayPO Box 43013, Providence, RI 02940-3013 Internet to-day business.
Telephone: 1 781 575 3346 The BP website is at www.
Toll-free in US and Canada: 1 877 638 5672 Audio cassettes CDs for visually impaired shareholders Canada ADS Administration Highlights from BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 are available CIBC Mellon Trust Company, 199 Bay Street on audio cassette and CD.
Copies may be obtained, free of charge, Commerce Court West, Securities Level, Toronto, Ontario M5L 1G9 from the sources listed under Publications.
Telephone: 1 416 643 5500 Toll-free in Canada and US: 1 800 387 0825 Acknowledgements Imagery Japan Photographers: Howard Bjornson, Ben Gibson, Rocky Kneten, The Mitsubishi Trust and Banking Corporation Simon Kreitem, Tom Maday, Marc Morrison, Tom Nagy, Chris Ridley, 7-7 Nishi-Ikebukuro 1-chome, Toshima-ku, Tokyo 171-8508 Andrew Shaw, Graham Trott Telephone: 81 3 5391 7029 Other imagery: Alter Image, Eric Feng, Paul Wearing Fax: 81 3 5391 2041 Paper This Annual Review for the year ended 31 December 2004 comprises summaries of the Cautionary statement Publications This Annual Review is printed on FSC certified Mohawk Options, Directors' Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and a summary of the information BP Annual Review 2004 contains certain forward-looking statements, particularly those Copies of BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004, BP Annual Report 100% PC White.
This paper contains 100% post-consumer recycled in the annual accounts.
This complies with the information required under the Companies regarding BP's asset portfolio and changes in it, capital expenditure, cash flow, costs, on Form 20-F 2004, BP Sustainability Report 2004, BP Financial and fibre and is manufactured entirely with wind energy.
It is manufactured Summary Financial Statement Regulations 1995.
It does not contain sufficient information debt to equity ratio, development of business strategy, discovery, development and to allow as full an understanding of the results and the state of affairs of BP as the full management of oil and gas resources, divestments and disposals, dividends, earnings, Operating Information 2000-2004, BP Statistical Review of World in accordance with a Forest Stewardship Council FSC pilot BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004.
Shareholders may obtain a copy of BP Annual Report effect of changing our accounting practice to IFRS, effect of environmental remediation Energy and other BP publications may be obtained, free of charge, programme that certifies products made with high percentages and Accounts 2004 on request, free of charge see page 45. costs, future performance, gearing, growth, impact of changes in reserve estimates, industry growth and other trend projections, levels of investments, margins, new markets, from the following sources: of post-consumer reclaimed materials.
BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the BP group of companies.
Unless otherwise stated, outputs from investments, prices, production, renewal of borrowing facilities, reserves, the text does not distinguish between the activities and operations of the parent company returns, share buybacks, supplies, tax rates and timing of projects and project completions.
and those of its subsidiary undertakings.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they US and Canada Design and production The term shareholders in this Review means, unless the context otherwise requires, relate to events and depend on circumstances that will or may occur in the future.
Actual Toll-free: 1 800 638 5672 Designed by VSA Partners, Inc. Chicago investors in the equity capital of BP p. l. c. both direct and or indirect.
results may differ from those expressed in such statements, depending on a variety of factors, Fax: 1 630 821 3456 Typeset by Pauffley, London including the timing of bringing new fields on stream: future levels of industry product supply: BP Annual Review 2004 and BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004 may be downloaded from demand and pricing: operational problems: general economic conditions: political stability the BP website at www.
No material on the BP website, other than the shareholderus@bp.
com Printed in England by St Ives Burrups Limited and economic growth in relevant areas of the world: changes in laws and governmental items identified as BP Annual Review 2004 and BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004, forms Printed in the US by Sandy Alexander regulations: exchange rate fluctuations: development and use of new technology: changes any part of those documents.
in public expectations and other changes in business conditions: the actions of competitors: As BP shares, in the form of ADSs, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, an natural disasters and adverse weather conditions: wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage: BP p. l. c. 2005 Annual Report on Form 20-F will be filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission in and other factors discussed elsewhere in this document.
accordance with the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
When filed, copies may be obtained, free of charge see page 45.
BP discloses on its website at www.
com significant ways The registered office of BP p. l. c. is 1 St Jamess Square, London SW1Y 4PD, UK if any in which its corporate governance practices differ from those mandated for US 44 0 20 7496 4000. companies under NYSE listing standards.
Registered in England and Wales No.
45 In mapping the future of BP, we began with a business purpose a strategy, a set of assets and market positions that gave us scope, scale and potential as a leader in our industry.
Today, this model describes us well but not completely.
Now our strategy is being driven further, by a belief that everything we do can and should be done better.
Our people put this principle of operational excellence to work every day throughout BP.
You can see it in the ways we aim to use resources efficiently to deliver sustainable production: confidently act first in a complex marketplace: focus on the most meaningful markets: fulfil our customers needs: learn from our best practices: and lead by example.
All to perform reliably and responsibly on behalf of our shareholders worldwide.
At BP, this is how were making the right choices.
Performance highlights These tables and charts show the highlights of BPs achievements adopts International Financial Reporting Standards with effect in 2004.
They reflect more than our financial performance.
Our from the first quarter of 2005.
References within BP Annual strong profitability has allowed us to increase the dividend year on Review 2004 to result are to pro forma results.
References to year, and we are continuing to invest in the future.
Environmental capital employed, operating capital employed and net debt and safety performance remains a key focus.
We continue to plus equity are to these measures on a pro forma basis that make significant financial commitments in the communities in excludes the fixed asset revaluation adjustment and goodwill which we operate.
consequent upon the Atlantic Richfield Company ARCO and In this Review, BP presents pro forma results in addition to Burmah Castrol acquisitions in 2000.
Return, return on its reported results, to enable shareholders to evaluate better average capital employed and the net debt ratio net debt net our performance against that of our competitors.
The pro forma debt plus equity refer to ratios calculated using these measures.
result is replacement cost profit excluding acquisition amortization The financial information for 2003 has been restated to reflect b as defined in footnote to the reconciliation table below.
a the transfer of natural gas liquids NGLs operations from Both the pro forma result and replacement cost profit include the Exploration and Production segment to Gas, Power and exceptional items and non-operating items as defined in Renewables on 1 January 2004: b the adoption by the group a footnote to the reconciliation table below.
The pro forma of Financial Reporting Standard No.
17 Retirement Benefits result has been derived from our UK GAAP accounting FRS 17 with effect from 1 January 2004: and c the adoption information but is not in itself a recognized UK or US GAAP by the group of Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract No.
BP will discontinue pro forma reporting at the time it Accounting for ESOP Trusts with effect from 1 January 2004.
Key financial measures $ million 2004 2003 Pro forma result 16,208 12,858 Replacement cost profit 14,088 10,466 Historical cost profit 15,731 10,482 Per ordinary share cents Pro forma result 74.27 57.99 Replacement cost profit 64.55 47.20 Historical cost profit 72.08 47.27 Dividends per ordinary share cents 29.45 26.00 pence 16.099 15.517 Dividends per ADS dollars 1.77 1.56 Reconciliation of reported profit loss to pro forma result $ million 2004 2003 Acquisition Pro forma Acquisition Pro forma a b a b Reported amortization result Reported amortization result Exploration and Production 18,520 1,239 19,759 14,666 1,566 16,232 Refining and Marketing 4,722 881 5,603 2,318 826 3,144 Petrochemicals 900 900 568 568 Gas, Power and Renewables 943 943 570 570 Other businesses and corporate 314 314 184 184 Replacement cost profit before interest and tax 23,599 2,120 25,719 17,938 2,392 20,330 Interest and other finance expense 999 999 1,191 1,191 Taxation 8,282 8,282 6,111 6,111 Minority shareholders interest MSI 230 230 170 170 Replacement cost profit 14,088 2,120 16,208 10,466 2,392 12,858 Stock holding gains losses, net of MSI 1,643 16 Historical cost profit 15,731 10,482 a Replacement cost profit for the period includes the net profit or loss on the sale of fixed assets and businesses or termination of operations.
It also includes nonoperating items identified by the group, primarily asset write-downs impairment, environmental and other provisions and restructuring, integration and rationalization costs.
These items do not meet the criteria to be classified as operating exceptional items.
b Acquisition amortization refers to depreciation relating to the fixed asset revaluation adjustment and amortization of goodwill consequent upon the ARCO and Burmah Castrol acquisitions.
The results for 2003 and 2004 include accelerated depreciation of the revaluation adjustment in respect of the impairment of former ARCO assets of $381 million and $214 million, respectively.
2 BP Annual Review 2004 Dividends per share cents pence Environmental performance 2004 2003 04 a, b Greenhouse gas emissions million tonnes 81.7 83.4 03 c 02 Total number of spills 1 barrel 578 635 d 01 Percentage of major operations with ISO 14001 100 99 00 a BP share of emissions of carbon dioxide and methane, expressed as an equivalent mass of carbon dioxide.
0 10 20 30 cents b 0 6 12 18 pence BP share of TNK-BP emissions is not included.
d Cents per share Pence per share ISO 14001 is an international environmental management standard.
a, b Result per share cents Days away from work case frequency per 200,000 hours 04 04 03 03 02 02 01 01 00 00 0 20 40 60 80 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 Employees Contractors a An injury that results in a person being unable to work for a day shift or more.
b 2002 data excludes Castrol and Veba contractors and Veba employees.
Return on average capital employed % 04 03 a Senior management profile by gender and nationality % 02 04 01 03 00 02 0 6 12 18 24 0 5 10 15 20 Females Non-UK US a Senior management in 2004 includes the top 610 positions in BP.
Investment in American depositary shares or equivalents for BP, Shell and Total Health investment data for 2000-2003 is included in Environment: the equivalent and prime listings for ExxonMobil and ChevronTexaco.
2004 data is included in Other.
3 Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder BP has delivered another excellent set of Against this background, our confidence in the future results for the year.
Sustained high oil and gas prices, coupled of the business enables us to make a step change in the with advances in operational performance, have resulted in fourth-quarter dividend, which I am pleased to confirm a strong cash flow, accelerating our returns to shareholders as 8.50 cents per share.
This makes the annual payment in the near term through significant share repurchases.
29.45 cents per share or 16.099 pence per share, an increase Returning cash in excess of our investment requirements to in dollar terms over last year of 13% and an increase of 4% our shareholders both through buybacks and our continued in sterling terms.
pursuit of a progressive dividend policy is fundamental to 2004 saw heightened regulatory attention on our industry, our strategy.
not least in the area of the reporting of hydrocarbon reserves.
Exchange-rate issues especially the relative weakness Reserves reporting is an important measure of our of the dollar in the past year have been felt by those who performance as it demonstrates the extent to which we are receive their dividends in sterling.
Over the longer term, replacing the hydrocarbons we are producing a particular fluctuating exchange rates generally benefit shareholders strength of BP in recent years.
As a UK company, our reserves on each side of the Atlantic at different times.
For instance, are estimated in accordance with UK accounting practice.
in the five-year period from 1996 to 2001, the sterling dividend These reserves are stated each year in our Annual Report.
The rationale for declaring our dividend in US For US regulatory purposes we report reserves estimates dollars remains sound, since our principal businesses all trade in accordance with the rules of the Securities and Exchange in that currency.
While headline increases in sterling and dollar Commission.
During the course of the year, the board and dividends show a differential, the key element to note is that its audit committee have exercised considerable scrutiny in both are growing.
In this years full Annual Report, we have included, 2004 has seen a rapid acceleration of our buyback programme, for the first time, US SEC-based estimates in addition to our with $7.5 billion worth of shares bought back and cancelled UK reserves bookings.
While this has been welcomed by larger Our business is global and complex, and we are fortunate and institutional investors, the benefit for all shareholders to have a first-rate executive team to address these challenges.
committed to long-term investment in BP will be felt through During the year, the executive management team, so ably the ultimate capital appreciation of their shares.
The board led by John Browne, has sustained its formidable track record.
keeps its strategy in this area under review to ensure the They have our full confidence and support.
I would like to thank balance between dividend and buybacks remains appropriate John and his team for their exemplary efforts on your behalf for our owners as a whole.
Our thanks are also due to all 102,900 BP employees 4 BP Annual Review 2004 around the world for their unremitting effort and the value they chair the groups technology advisory committee in the have created for our shareholders.
Within a company with such a strong executive management Chuck Knight also joined the board in 1987.
His perspective team, it is important that the role of the board is understood.
As on corporate practices in the United States and experience a board, we are conscious that we oversee the activities of the as a senior chief executive operating within the US market business in the interests of all our owners.
The recent debate have proved invaluable, not least as BP has evolved in that on corporate governance has focused on the mechanisms of marketplace over the past two decades.
I will miss his unique board process and reporting ensuring appropriate checks contributions to the boards discussions.
and balances are in place.
Against this background, too many I would like to thank both Robin and Chuck on your behalf company directors have complained that they want to move for all their years of distinguished service.
away from corporate governance and get back to running The endorsement of the strength of our executive team our businesses.
by the invitation extended to Dick Olver to take on the Correctly, I think, our board recognizes that the primary chairmanship of BAE Systems plc was, of course, tinged business of the board is corporate governance.
Governing with sadness at having to bid farewell to a first-rate colleague, BP is not a matter to be driven solely by compliance concerns, who had served the company so well over the past 31 years.
but by the business purpose of the company you entrust us We wish Dick well for the future and thank him for his years to govern on your behalf.
Our role as a board therefore focuses of dedicated service to BP.
on ensuring your interests are promoted and that our business Three new appointments have been made to the board maximizes long-term value for you, our owners.
Iain Conn has been appointed an executive Ensuring that our business remains nimble and competitive, director.
Iain has had a substantial career within BP and is able to leverage the manifold talents of our managers, is key responsible for strategic resources.
Sir Tom McKillop, chief to the pursuit of that goal.
To discharge the trust you place in executive of AstraZeneca PLC, joined the board in July 2004 us as a board, we test the strategic direction of the companys and Douglas Flint, chief financial officer of HSBC Holdings plc, business.
We also monitor the operations of the business in joined in January 2005.
Each brings his own particular skills pursuit of that strategy to ensure both that BPs activities live and experience to complement those of his fellow directors out the values we set and also, critically, that shareholder value in the coming years.
lies at the heart of all we do.
The world in which BP operates is ever more complex 2004 saw a continuation of our very significant capital and challenging.
The coming year will see the continued investment programme that is key to the long-term future development of our business strategy.
I believe your board is of our business.
As a board, we continue to scrutinize the well resourced to address shareholders interests during this strategic direction of the company, especially as our activities period.
I look forward to reporting on their successful advance take us to more challenging geographic locations, to ensure in the years ahead.
We have an exciting future together.
that it continues to provide the prospect of the best long-term Thank you for all your continued support and interest in returns for our shareholders.
In the course of the year, significant work has been undertaken by the chairmans committee and the nomination committee, both of which I chair, as issues of executive and non-executive succession planning and performance come into ever-greater focus.
Likewise the remuneration committee, led by Sir Robin Nicholson and his designated successor Dr DeAnne Julius, has been heavily engaged in the development Peter Sutherland of new incentive plans for our executive directors.
Chairman The summary board performance report on pages 38-39 7 February 2005 expands upon the way in which the board and its committees discharge their mandate of governance.
Last year, I commented on board succession and development planning for the coming years.
At the forthcoming AGM, two of our senior non-executive directors, Sir Robin Nicholson and Charles Chuck Knight, will step down.
Robin has served on the BP board since 1987 and has been an excellent chairman of our remuneration committee.
He has had a substantial impact on the board and the company over the past 17 years and been a major contributor to all our board debates: we shall miss his wisdom and insight.
On a personal note, I shall miss his sage counsel and technical insight, but am delighted that he has agreed to continue to 5 Group chief executives review Dear Shareholder 2004 was a great year for BP.
In terms of We were wary of global developments, including ongoing overall performance, it was the best since the recent series conflict in Iraq, the threat of terrorism and public mistrust of of mergers and acquisitions.
And we found ourselves in one of the more High demand for energy and higher oil prices certainly volatile oil markets in history, driven by demand and anxiety contributed to our performance and led to our record financial about supply.
Against this backdrop, the team delivered results.
But our success in 2004 was based on more than record performance.
As the worlds energy market entered uncharted territory in We showed that we had the capability to deliver our strategy 2004, the subject of the future of energy supply took centre and to translate our scope and scale into competitive advantage.
Rising demand which matched the rate of global We demonstrated that we had the human talent to increase economic growth for the first time in 30 years produced both production, make new discoveries, gain new customers, short-term anxiety about fuel prices and long-term concern enhance safety and grow our reputation.
Our global workforce about supply.
Had there been a fundamental shift in the oil worked as a seamless team and I thank every one of them.
What else could disrupt As you read this Annual Review and follow our efforts to supply?
Were companies investing enough to meet demand?
create value, it may be helpful to understand how we achieve In this uncertain climate, a little history can be reassuring.
Clearly, questions over security of supplies have driven oil prices upwards.
But, amid all the market disruptions of the past Our purpose and strategy We begin with our purpose as a few years, supply has never fallen short of demand.
Increased group to provide better goods and services in the form investment by the private sector has led to production gains of light, heat, power and mobility to increasing numbers of of more than 15% a year during the last five years.
To succeed, we do this in a way that is profitable, production in 2004 rose at the fourth-highest rate in history.
This is reflected in value generated for shareholders.
Choosing our goals We execute our strategy against the To deliver profitable performance, we provide high-quality context of the time.
We make plans to achieve three targets: products in a competitive way maximizing revenues and To underpin growth by a focus on performance, particularly minimizing costs.
on cash returns, investing at a rate appropriate for long-term To deliver sustainable performance, we also provide these growth.
products in a sustainable way attracting the best people, To increase dividends.
accessing large-scale oil and gas resources, building markets To return to shareholders, by way of share buybacks, in which we enjoy customers trust while doing business in a 100% of free cash flow generated above what is needed mutually advantageous way that brings benefits to everyone for investment and dividends: this generally occurs, all concerned customers, communities, governments, suppliers, other things being appropriate, when the price of oil citizens and so generates repeat business.
To deliver consistent performance, we invest enough to These plans are executed by applying resources and deliver long-term growth, while balancing this with returns capabilities across the organization.
Too fast a growth rate is unsustainable, In last years report, I wrote that organizational alignment while too slow a rate sacrifices competitive advantage.
Our and operational excellence would shape our future as a group analysis gives us confidence that an investment level of around and that we had developed a new management framework $14 billion is right for 2005 and 2006, taking into account the to harness the energy and imagination of our people.
In 2004, present level of the dollar and recent sector-specific inflation.
we took further steps to embed these common values and To achieve our purpose, we have a strategy.
We make processes, clarifying individual accountability.
In 2005, choices about the assets and markets where we operate.
we will issue a new code of conduct to ensure that each Our business strategy remains unchanged.
In Exploration individual in BP continues to exhibit high and consistent and Production, we seek out long-term assets the largest, standards of ethical behaviour.
low-cost, new hydrocarbon deposits while managing the We continue to innovate and apply leading-edge technology.
In our customer-facing businesses, For example, our new Thunder Horse platform in the we look to attract more and more customers through improved deepwater Gulf of Mexico breaks many records as the largest quality of products and service.
Our challenge is to add new floating facility and will operate in the deepest water, with the sources of cash flow whose cash returns are at least as good harshest reservoir pressure and temperature regime.
We also continue to strengthen the development opportunities that we offer to our people.
For example, we have the Projects 2004 in context As I wrote last year, we started 2004 with Academy, in which we partner with the Massachusetts greater scale, common values and a clear strategy.
But nothing Institute of Technology to help people gain best-in-class project was a given.
We were cautious about our ability to execute management skills.
whether our people operating in 100 countries could effectively We measure the views of our staff through a People translate our worldwide assets into world-class performance.
In 2004, this showed a significant rise in 6 BP Annual Review 2004 the overall employee satisfaction index, demonstrating into two entities, while still achieving record sales an increasing sense of enthusiasm and teamwork among volumes through increased plant use and reliability.
Through disciplined portfolio management, we made $5 billion of divestments.
Reaching new milestones In a year of great success, there Through our activities, BP delivered a record result of were notable operational highlights: $16.2 billion in 2004.
With cash inflow of $6 billion and cash Our safety record improved for the eighth year running, returns of 35%, our performance continued to allow for strong although tragically we still suffered 11 fatalities among investment in our long-term growth as well as to return value contractors and employees.
to investors in the form of higher dividends 29.45 cents per Exploration and Production made new discoveries in share in 2004, an increase of 13% year on year and significant Angola, Egypt, the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad share buybacks, amounting to $7.5 billion in the year.
and Sakhalin Island in Russia and brought on stream BP now has the assets, market positions and organizational three new fields.
capability to continue to deliver its unchanged strategy.
Our production growth of more than 10% was in line We are meeting our three targets, with disciplined with our indicator of a 7% average for 2003-2008. investments, increased dividends and excess free cash flow Replacement of proved reserves for subsidiaries and for significant share buybacks.
equity-accounted entities at over 100% exceeded We have confidence in our ability to perform sustainably, production for the 12th year running.
TNK-BP contributed focusing mainly on conventional oil and gas resources, $1.5 billion, after interest and tax, to our result, paid to seeking to add value to products and services in customerus $1.9 billion of dividends and increased oil production facing businesses.
In my many meetings with BP people around the world, In Refining and Marketing, refining margins reached their I am constantly struck by their commitment to deliver everhighest levels since at least 1990.
We continued to find improved performance, but responsibly and with integrity.
ways to maximize our global refining capacity.
My role is to provide the framework that guides and Premium Ultimate fuels have been newly launched in encourages them to make the right choices: today, six markets, attracting new customers to these highertomorrow and for the long-term future of your company.
As always, the best is yet to come.
BPs retail sales continued to outpace the sector.
At our convenience locations worldwide, sales per square metre grew by an average of 3%.
We entered into agreements to sell liquefied natural gas to the US, China, South Korea and Mexico, and produced growth in sales volumes.
Our solar business streamlined its operations, tightened The Lord Browne of Madingley its market focus and delivered its first profit.
Group Chief Executive We initiated the separation of the Petrochemicals business 7 February 2005 7 Making the right choices What makes a business choice disciplined?
What turns complexity into clarity?
What connects customer insight to market performance?
What converts creativity into productivity?
And how do we put our principles into practice?
8 BP Annual Review 2004 The fact is, there is no formula for operational excellence.
Theres no patented system, established path or single way to achieve it.
For every company that competes on a global basis, the journey to operational excellence is unique.
For BP, operational excellence enables us reliably and responsibly to deliver our strategy.
From the assets weve built to the returns we offer our investors and the ideas we turn into action along the way individuals and teams across BP are putting operational excellence into practice, making it an organizational principle, not simply an aspiration.
9 Making the right choices Resourcefulness on a new scale Our resources business is about renewal.
We operate within the worlds largest supply-and-demand relationship, a marketplace in which our long-term success depends on the ability of our teams to replace reserves at least as fast as they bring them to market.
As we describe later, in each of the last 12 years, weve replaced more than100% of our production and, at the same time, delivered some of the lowest finding costs in our industry.
Developing our resources through operational excellence is converting our scale into profitability.
Turning our technologies into discoveries.
Bringing our projects into production.
Connecting our exceptional people through best practices.
And extending the potential of the worlds energy resources.
10 BP Annual Review 2004 Seeing into the future Discovery never ends.
Thats a principle our people learned long ago.
Even in the most mature oil and gas fields, there is hidden potential if you know where and how to look.
As global gas demand and infrastructure have grown, weve rewritten our strategy there.
As well as extending the productivity of existing oil fields, BP teams are now applying new technology and capital to discover natural gas resources.
In the Nile Delta, leading-edge aeromagnetic and seismic technology is allowing our exploration team to see beneath the sea floor, taking them through deeper water towards uncharted gas reservoirs.
The teams efforts in imaging, interpretation, integrated planning, testing and drilling have turned their raw data into real potential, and in 2004 confirmed the presence of a promising new gas field, called Raven.
The teams newest wells will determine the Raven fields size.
But they are already contributing towards BPs development of a major liquefied natural gas LNG business to help meet the worlds growing demand for cleaner energy.
11 Making the right choices A mature outlook Conventional oil business wisdom holds that, once a field has reached maturity, its descent into unprofitability is almost inevitable.
At BP, however, our people tend to see mature fields differently.
Since 2000, our existing profit centres have been run with an efficiency thats led to an average replacement rate of 72% for the proved reserves they have produced over this period.
These mature operations, some of which date back to the 1960s, have maintained their vitality.
Today, their output is projected to decline at a modest 3% annually until 2008.
Discipline, creativity and the kind of operating efficiency that comes from decades of knowledge and innovative team practices in the field.
We aim to extend this life expectancy.
In established fields from Alaska to the North Sea, our teams are applying remote control and online field management, increasing well recovery rates, streamlining maintenance and even tapping into new discoveries.
All of which means theyre getting more from our existing hydrocarbon base with greater reliability and predictable cost producing our resources as efficiently as we discover them.
12 BP Annual Review 2004 Producing in new dimensions How much?
These are the biggest questions in the world of energy today.
Part of the answer is a broader set of skills in production creativity, efficiency, speed to bring discoveries consistently and responsibly to market.
In oil and gas fields worldwide, our people are helping to make us productive at an unprecedented scale.
We now find oil and deliver new production with an efficiency thats on a par with the industrys best.
The ideas, energy and organization of our teams have also led us into our most prolific era for operational start-ups.
Over the last two years, we have completed nine major projects.
From now until December 2006, we have 10 more major oil and gas project completions planned, including some of the worlds largest construction projects in some of the most geologically challenging locations.
Among them is the Gulf of Mexico, where our teams are redefining what is possible in deepwater operations at four fields simultaneously under development, including the massive Holstein platform above.
13 Making the right choices The best routes to market In todays energy marketplace, bringing resources to the world involves far more than making deliveries.
It takes a business model that consistently finds the most efficient ways of getting there.
After years of building assets in the natural gas marketplace, BP is now one of the worlds largest non-state gas companies in terms of production and sales volumes.
In the worlds largest gas market, North America, we sell the largest volumes of end-user and wholesale gas, and are one of the largest marketers of natural gas liquids.
Globally, in liquefied natural gas we are the second largest non-state supplier of gas into liquefaction plants.
But our real advantage goes beyond our size and reach.
Its the way our people run our businesses the commercial and operational practices they use to open up markets for tomorrow and maximize the value of our resources today.
14 BP Annual Review 2004 Building a mobile pipeline The distance between a natural gas field and a market can be measured in miles.
It can also be calculated in years.
BPs LNG strategy is bringing our gas closer to market.
To capture a growing share of future customers for cleaner natural gas, our LNG teams have built a flexible system to supply growing demand a mobile pipeline to serve major regional markets and meet the needs of customers in the US, UK, Spain, Japan, South Korea and China.
These locations increasingly rely on gas imports for primary energy and electricity needs, but they are often far from sources of natural gas.
LNG bridges the gap: gas is lifted from underground, chilled to liquid, transported on ships from one part of the world to another, and then warmed back into gas to fuel a power plant, factory or home.
As well as managing long-term point-to-point contracts, we are able to use our own ships to direct LNG to markets where demand is greatest and value highest opening new markets and using the open seas to supply them.
15 Making the right choices Flowing with information In the marketplace for oil and gas, one of the most valuable commodities is intelligence the ability to understand and interpret market information.
Youll find our people at this intersection of supply and demand.
Their minute-by-minute knowledge of the direction of supply and demand on a global basis is a discipline that allows our teams to find the most productive links between assets and across supply chains.
And to serve our customers distinctively and with competitive advantage.
We do this by making a significant investment in digital and communications technology.
We align that investment with a host of people capabilities human strengths in analysis, logistics, trading and risk management.
Our people use real-time data, information systems, transaction automation and their own trading wisdom to act on some of the best available market intelligence worldwide.
All this allows BP to connect the dots in ways that others might not see, giving our customers a better level of service.
Thats how we take decisions that help to make the most of our resources.
16 BP Annual Review 2004 Fine-tuning refining In refining, what matters more processes or people?
Traditional industry benchmarks for operational excellence in the refining business focus on uptime, the reliability of plant and equipment and the productivity of the manufacturing process.
But people in our refining operations find that their individual actions large and small can help to set an even higher standard.
Since 2002, our global refining workforce has started thinking of reliability in personal terms.
By adopting the mindset of a High Reliability Organization HRO, decision-making happens at the level where the knowledge and expertise reside.
And this leads to faster, better decisions that drive consistent, high-quality operating performance and commercial production.
More than a management technique, HRO is a way of thinking that encourages team members to speak out, find root causes of problems and take action early when they catch even the smallest failures.
HRO is the way refining thinks best and the best way we know to perform reliably for our customers.
17 Making the right choices Getting closer to customers Every day, in locations around the world, our people serve about 13 million customers.
To put this in perspective, our businesses and brands among them BP, Castrol, ARCO, Aral, Ultimate, Connect and am pm reach nearly as many customers as Wal-Mart, the worlds largest retailer.
But to be operationally excellent where our products meet the marketplace, our customer relationships have to be defined by quality as well as quantity the distinctiveness and competitiveness of what we offer and the operating processes that underpin customer experiences.
Our customer-facing businesses are gaining advantage and improving performance by carefully determining what customers want.
By being consistent and creative in meeting those needs.
By strengthening brands through innovation.
And by locating facilities where they can most effectively and conveniently deliver our offers.
18 BP Annual Review 2004 ARCO has the largest retail fuels market share on the US West Coast.
Aral is the largest retail fuel marketer in Germany.
Its position has benefited from The BP brand is the rebadging of the strongly recognized BP network, largely throughout the world.
Awareness of the brand is growing through improved business offers and targeted communication efforts.
am pm is the preferred fuel station convenience store brand on the US West Coast.
Castrol is one of the topselling passenger car lubricants in the world.
Building a better brand In the minds of our customers, what our products stand for is just as important as what we make.
This means that not only our investment in assets but also every decision we make in choosing routes to market must be sustained by careful management of our brands.
As the face of BP, our brands are more than just logos.
In combination with the well-defined advantages of our products, they tell a compelling story to our customers the kind that builds preferences and sustains relationships.
Which is why our brands rely on operational excellence.
They include Ultimate, which is consistently ranked as the highest quality premium retail fuel by random samples of motorists.
In lubricants, our Castrol brand has used its technological advantage, rigorous segmentation and customer loyalty to drive sales consistently ahead of market growth.
Our updated and expanded retail locations are accelerating operating performance, increasing customers and driving sales per square metre.
Applying operational excellence to the marketplace makes our brands more meaningful and our businesses more valuable.
19 Making the right choices Driven by distinctiveness In striving for operational excellence, where you choose to compete is often as important as how efficiently you do it.
BPs lubricants team has proved that effective strategic choices in market segmentation, customer relationships and brand visibility can enhance the value of assets and accelerate growth.
In global lubricants markets, characterized by limited volume growth and increasing competitive pressure, BP stands out.
Our marketing strength, technological distinctiveness and premium position have led to above-market year-on-year sales growth in automotive lubricants.
While we sell lubricants, led by Castrol, in more than100 countries worldwide, our people think in terms of market segments motorcycles, passenger cars, trucks and vehicle manufacturers rather than marketplaces.
This perspective allows them to capture customers for whom our technology, consumer insight and brands add value and can generate higher returns for BP.
In applying this strategy to new markets such as China, where lubricants growth is dramatic and preferences form quickly, our teams are already capitalizing on the strength of our brands to build distribution channels, market share and customer loyalty.
20 BP Annual Review 2004 Solving the solar equation We all know the appeal of solar power sustainability, acceptability and independence.
Yet its potential as an energy source has often been overshadowed by its economics as a business.
Beginning in 2003, our BP solar team refocused its activities to become the profit centre that it could be better understanding customers, operating at the right scale and reaching the best markets.
Were now running a profitable solar operation still small by BP standards, but one that grew its megawatt capacity sales of photovoltaic equipment by more than 30% in 2004.
This performance is being driven by manufacturing consolidation, product innovation and, in particular, the teams focus on eight global sectors where well-defined customer needs, improved system performance and government incentives converge.
A good example is Germany, the worlds second largest solar market after Japan.
Our large commercial installation at Geiseltalsee above provides sustainable benefits on two fronts: the field generates four megawatts of power, enough to supply 1,000 four-person households each year, and has reclaimed the site of a former oil depot.
21 Making the right choices The point of excellence Our upstream and downstream activities reach not only the marketplace but also investors, regulators, government leaders and the public.
Our abilities as an organization to sustain and improve our standing among these groups are key to our definition of operational excellence.
These abilities support our new scope and scale while retaining the diverse heritage of our people and businesses.
They help equip BP with the skills, knowledge and reputation that enable us to conduct business in a chosen country and let us navigate an increasingly complex and unpredictable world with sensitivity.
22 BP Annual Review 2004 Our human potential In business in general, and within BP in particular, the relationship between employee and performance is unbreakable.
Simply put, our employees hold the knowledge, skills and energy that enable our enterprise to thrive.
At BP, operational excellence includes the ways in which we expand our employees range of possibilities as they expand ours.
A good example is our Projects Academy.
In 2003, we began working with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology MIT to change how our teams deliver major projects.
Focusing on project leadership, business knowledge and technical excellence, the MIT programme is bringing BPs senior project leaders together with recognized leaders in engineering and project management.
The first two Projects Academy classes graduated in 2004.
Their members are already applying new insights to manage the complexity of their projects, understand team dynamics, clarify priorities and build a well-connected network of ideas.
The Projects Academy, Marketing Academy and other practical initiatives give BP the capacity to learn and share knowledge on an everyday, global basis, and to grow our most prized resource our people.
23 Financial and business operating review Financial performance Business environment Capital expenditure and acquisitions amounted to Trading conditions in 2004 were affected by tight supplies in $17,249 million, including $1,354 million for including TNKs oil markets and by strong world economic growth.
interest in Slavneft within TNK-BP and $1,355 million for the Average crude oil prices in nominal terms in 2004 were the acquisition of Solvays interests in BP Solvay Polyethylene highest for 20 years, driven by exceptionally strong global oil Europe and BP Solvay Polyethylene North America.
Excluding demand growth and the physical disruption to US oil operations acquisitions, capital expenditure was $14,408 million, compared caused by Hurricane Ivan.
The Brent price averaged $38.27 per with $13,986 million in 2003. barrel, an increase of more than $9 per barrel over the $28.83 Net cash inflow for the year was $6,038 million, compared per barrel average seen in 2003, and varied between $29.13 with an inflow of $1,405 million in 2003: higher operating and $52.03 per barrel.
cash flow and higher dividends from joint ventures were Natural gas prices in the US were also strong during 2004.
The partly offset by higher tax payments, lower disposal proceeds Henry Hub First of the Month Index averaged $6.13 per million and higher acquisition spending.
Net cash outflow for British thermal units mmBtu, up by more than $0.70 per mmBtu capital expenditure and acquisitions, net of disposals, was compared with the 2003 average of $5.37 per mmBtu.
During 2004, we made slightly relative to oil prices as the levels of gas in storage rose incremental payments of $395 million into a number of the sharply.
UK gas prices were also up strongly in 2004, averaging groups pension funds 2003 $2,533 million.
24.39 pence per therm at the National Balancing Point compared The groups net debt, that is debt less cash and liquid with a 2003 average of 20.28 pence per therm.
resources, was $21,607 million at the end of 2004, compared Refining margins averaged record highs in 2004, despite with $20,193 million at the end of the previous year.
The ratio weakening towards the end of the year.
This reflected strong of net debt to net debt plus equity was 24%, at the bottom of oil demand growth and record refinery throughput levels.
the target range, compared with 26% a year ago.
On a reported Retail margins weakened in 2004, as rising product prices and basis, the percentage was 22% 2003 22%.
price volatility made their impact in a competitive marketplace.
In addition to reported debt, BP uses conventional off In Petrochemicals, generally improved market conditions led balance sheet sources of finance such as operating leases to a gradual increase in both volumes and margins through and borrowings in joint ventures and associates.
Such gains were, however, partially offset by high has access to significant sources of liquidity in the form of and volatile energy and feedstock prices, together with adverse committed facilities and other arrangements.
BP has a financial risk management process that addresses the various risk exposures we encounter in the financial Results markets: these include market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
BPs result for the year was $16,208 million, compared with $12,858 million in 2003.
The result per share was 74.27 cents, an Dividends and share repurchases increase of 28%.
Replacement cost profit was $14,088 million The total dividends announced for 2004 were $6,371 million, 2003 $10,466 million.
Both the result and replacement cost against $5,753 million in 2003.
Dividends per share for 2004 profit include exceptional and non-operating items.
were 29.45 cents, an increase of 13% compared with 2003.
The return on average capital employed was 20%, compared In sterling terms, the dividend was 4% higher.
This increase is a with 18% in 2003.
On a replacement cost basis, the 2004 result of our strong cash flow and improvements in underlying return was 15% 2003 12%, and 17% 2003 12% on a performance in line with strategy.
In addition, our confidence historical cost basis.
in the future enabled us to make a step change in the fourth Net exceptional gains of $815 million before tax principally relate quarterly dividend.
The board sets the dividend based upon to gains from the sale of our interests in PetroChina and Sinopec the prevailing circumstances of the group, future investment and the divestment of certain upstream interests, partly offset by patterns and the sustainability of the group, and the future net losses on a number of business sales and facility closures.
The steady increases in the dollar dividend Non-operating items in 2004 were a net charge of $2,120 in recent years reflect the boards progressive dividend policy.
million before tax and are shown on page 25.
The majority of the BP intends to continue the operation of the Dividend asset write-downs and impairments relate to the Petrochemicals Reinvestment Plan DRIP for shareholders who wish to segment, reflecting the portfolio separation described on page 28. receive their dividend in the form of shares rather than cash.
Interest expense was $642 million, compared with The BP Direct Access Plan for US and Canadian investors also $644 million in 2003.
This primarily reflects lower interest rates includes a dividend reinvestment feature.
and debt buyback costs and an increase in capitalized interest, The group aims to demonstrate financial discipline by offset by the inclusion of BPs share of a full years interest balancing cash in and cash out over time.
When trading expense from TNK-BP in 2004. conditions are favourable, cash flow may be in excess of what Corporate tax expense was $8,282 million 2003 is needed for operational requirements, including funding the $6,111 million, representing an effective tax rate of 34% capital programme and any acquisitions and dividend on the pro forma result 2003 32%.
As part of giving a return to shareholders, one of Historical cost profit was $15,731 million, including the steps we take from time to time is to repurchase our own exceptional net gains after tax of $1,076 million and stock shares.
During 2004, a total of 827 million shares were holding gains of $1,643 million.
The corresponding figures for repurchased and cancelled at a cost of $7,548 million.
The 2003 were $10,482 million profit, $708 million net gains and repurchased shares had a nominal value of $207 million and $16 million gains respectively.
represented 3.7% of ordinary shares in issue at the end of 24 BP Annual Review 2004 2003.
Since the inception of the share repurchase programme External environment in 2000, 1,602 million shares have been repurchased and 2004 2003 cancelled at a cost of $13.5 billion.
BP intends to continue BP average liquids realizations $ barrel 35.39 27.25 making share repurchases, subject to market conditions and Brent oil price $ barrel 38.27 28.83 continuing authority at the April 2005 annual general meeting.
BP average natural gas realizations During the year, shares to the value of $1.25 billion were $ thousand cubic feet 3.86 3.39 issued to Alfa Group and Access-Renova AAR as the first Henry Hub gas price $ mmBtu 6.13 5.37 instalment of the deferred consideration for our investment in Global indicator refining margin $ barrel 6.08 3.88 a TNK-BP.
Two more instalments of $1.25 billion are due in the Chemicals indicator margin $ tonne 140 112 third quarters of 2005 and 2006. a Provisional.
Critical accounting policies Operating statistics The groups accounts are prepared in accordance with UK 2004 2003 generally accepted accounting practice UK GAAP.
This requires Liquids production thousand b d 2,531 2,121 the directors to adopt those accounting policies most appropriate Gas production million cf d 8,503 8,613 to its particular circumstance for the accounts to give a true and Total production thousand boe d 3,997 3,606 fair view.
In preparing the accounts, the directors are required Refinery throughputs thousand b d 2,976 3,097 to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Marketing sales thousand b d 4,002 3,969 amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities.
Actual Petrochemicals production thousand tonnes 28,927 27,943 outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
Gas sales million cf d 31,690 30,439 The areas that require the most significant judgements and estimates to be used in the preparation of consolidated accounts relate to oil and natural gas accounting, including the Non-operating items $ million estimation of reserves: impairment: and provisions for deferred 2004 2003 taxation, decommissioning, environmental liabilities, pensions Asset write-downs impairment 1,529 357 and other post-retirement benefits.
Environmental and other provisions 489 582 Restructuring, integration and Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards rationalization costs 141 399 An International Accounting Standards Regulation was Other 39 559 adopted by the Council of the European Union EU in June Total non-operating items before tax 2,120 779 2002.
This regulation requires all EU companies listed on an a Taxation 559 551 EU stock exchange to use endorsed International Financial Total non-operating items after tax 1,561 228 Reporting Standards IFRS, published by the International a Accounting Standards Board IASB, to report their 2003 includes tax restructuring benefits.
consolidated results with effect from 1 January 2005.
We are in the process of finalizing the restatements of the Capital investment $ million results and financial position for 2003 and 2004 under IFRS, 2004 2003 and intend to release this information in mid-March 2005.
Exploration and Production 9,839 9,658 Our current view is that the major effects of changing from Refining and Marketing 2,887 3,006 our current accounting practice to IFRS are in the following Petrochemicals 929 775 areas: goodwill acquired in a business combination: deferred Gas, Power and Renewables 538 359 tax related to business combinations and in respect of the Other businesses and corporate 215 188 valuation of stocks: accounting for items falling within the Capital expenditure 14,408 13,986 scope of IAS Nos.
32 and 39, including embedded derivatives and Acquisitions 2,841 6,026 hedge accounting: the treatment of major overhaul expenditure: 17,249 20,012 exchanges of fixed assets: recognition of dividend liabilities: and Disposals 5,048 6,432 share-based payments.
Certain joint arrangements with third Net investment 12,201 13,580 parties, where BP currently accounts for its share of individual assets, liabilities, income and expense, will be accounted for using the equity method, resulting in reclassifications within Creditor payment policy and practice the income statement and balance sheet.
As a general policy, the group encourages long-term relationships founded on trust and mutual advantage.
Within this Insurance overall policy, individual operating companies are responsible for The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions situations where this is required for legal or contractual and ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment.
This is because external insurance is not considered These terms are adhered to when payments are made, subject an economic means of financing losses for the group.
Losses to terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
will therefore be borne as they arise rather than being spread BP p. l. c. is a holding company with no business activity other over time through insurance premia with attendant transaction than the holding of investments in the group and therefore had costs.
This position will be reviewed periodically.
no trade creditors at 31 December 2004.
25 Financial and business operating review Business performance Segment results $ million 2004 19,759 Exploration and Production 2003 16,232 Strategy Focus Create new profit centres by accessing areas with the BP invests in a portfolio of large, lower-cost oil and natural potential for large oil and natural gas fields: exploring gas fields chosen for their potentially strong return on capital successfully: and pursuing the best projects for development.
employed, and seeks to manage those assets safely with Manage the performance of producing assets by investing maximum capital and operating efficiency.
We continue to in the best available opportunities and optimizing operating develop new profit centres in which we have a distinctive efficiency.
position: Trinidad, Angola, Azerbaijan, deepwater Gulf of Sell assets that are no longer strategic to us and have Mexico, Asia Pacific gas and Algeria.
These new profit centres, greater value to others.
in addition to our growing operations in Russia, augment the production assets in our existing profit centres, providing greater reach, investment choice and opportunity for growth.
Exploration and Production which is Trinidad and Tobagos first major in-country offshore The result for the year was a record $19,759 million, construction project.
representing an improvement of 22% over 2003, arising In Azerbaijan, construction continued on the Central Azeri from increased production and higher oil and gas prices.
field, with topsides commissioning under way.
First oil is Our production was 3,997 thousand barrels of oil equivalent expected in the first half of 2005.
We plan to transport this per day, an increase of more than 10% over 2003, primarily oil via the 1,760-kilometre Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan BTC pipeline.
from incremental production in TNK-BP and our new profit When complete, the pipeline will export crude oil from the centres.
The increase was partly offset by a severe hurricane Caspian to world markets.
In addition, construction continued on season in the Gulf of Mexico, a blow-out at the non-BP-operated the Shah Deniz gas field, and in-country assembly of the drilling Temsah platform in Egypt, the impact of divestments and rig and platform is under way for a planned 2006 start-up.
decline in our existing profit centres.
In the Gulf of Mexico, the Holstein field started production We sanctioned four new major projects Azeri-Chiragin December, despite the effects of Hurricane Ivan.
In 2004, Gunashli phase three in Azerbaijan, Rosa in Angola, Magnus significant progress was made on Mad Dog, currently in the extension in the UK North Sea and viscous oil in Alaska and final commissioning stages with first production expected in completed four major projects In Salah in Algeria, Australia early 2005, and on Thunder Horse, on track to begin production North West Shelf Train 4, Kizomba A in Angola and Holstein in by the end of 2005.
This will be followed by Atlantis, with first the Gulf of Mexico.
The increase in capital spending this year production expected in 2006. primarily reflected continued high development activity as In Angola, the Kizomba A field started production in August, we progressed projects in the new profit centres.
Despite ahead of schedule, while Kizomba B remains on track for significant success across the supply chain to minimize the start-up in late 2005.
All major contracts were awarded on impact, inflationary pressures on our raw materials and the the Greater Plutonio development and fabrication of the weaker dollar contributed to the increase.
Floating Production Storage and Offloading topsides began.
Progress continued in our existing profit centres.
Production In Algeria, the In Salah project started production in midfrom the Cerro Dragon field in Argentina grew through further 2004 and the In Amenas project remains on track for start-up infill drilling.
In the North Sea, progress continued as expected in late 2005-early 2006. on the Rhum development.
Oil production from TNK-BP excluding Slavneft grew Each of our new profit centres progressed in line with our by about 14% over 2003.
Our result for the year included expectations this year.
We also received $1.9 billion of cash In Trinidad, from where BP has prime access to US and dividends from the venture.
European liquefied natural gas LNG markets, we built on We continually seek to enhance our portfolio through a our integrated position.
In July, Atlas Methanol, the worlds planned annual divestment programme.
largest methanol plant, came on line.
Train 4 of Atlantic LNG In 2004, this yielded $747 million of proceeds and covered remains on track for start-up in the fourth quarter of 2005. assets primarily in Indonesia, the US and Canada.
We also It will be supplied in part by the Cannonball gas development, signed sales and purchase agreements for the Ormen 26 BP Annual Review 2004 Segment results $ million 2004 5,603 Refining and Marketing 2003 3,144 Strategy Focus Focus on refining locations where scale, configuration and Our marketing businesses, underpinned by world-class operational excellence earn distinctive returns.
manufacturing, generate customer value by providing quality Focus on retail fuel and convenience markets where supply products and offers.
Our retail, lubricants and business-toadvantage and distinctive offer can capture market share.
business sectors reach about 13 million customers a day.
Leverage our brand and technology with a key focus on Our retail strategy provides differentiated fuel and convenience automotive-related lubricants markets.
offers to some of the most attractive global markets.
Our Build strong strategic relationships in the  brands offer customers benefits through technology business sector.
We have deep business-to-business customer Enhance our existing strength in selected emerging relationships and strategic partnerships.
We seek to improve markets, particularly China.
the quality of our manufacturing portfolio and our products.
Lange field in Norway, which is planned to complete in investment to increase the quality of our portfolio and from early 2005. our focus on operational excellence.
Owing to increased crude New oil and gas discoveries were made in Egypt, Angola, product and base oil prices, margins overall declined slightly the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Trinidad and offshore Sakhalin against those of 2003.
We continued to strengthen our Island in Russia.
Recoverable oil and gas from these finds is competitive position in all our operations through improved estimated to be more than one billion barrels of oil equivalent.
site operating models and the development of distinctive On the basis of UK generally accepted accounting practice offers for customers.
SORP, our proved reserves replacement ratio RRR was Our investment in China deepened through two new joint 106%, excluding equity-accounted entities.
On the same basis, ventures with PetroChina and Sinopec.
We continued to including equity-accounted entities, the RRR was 110%.
This review our portfolio, resulting in the disposal of our refining, was the 12th consecutive year in which our RRR was greater retail and liquefied petroleum gas LPG businesses in than 100%.
We also prepare estimates of our proved reserves Singapore, while further retail network asset disposals were on the basis of the rules and interpretation required by the completed in 2004.
From 1 January 2005, the Aromatics and US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
On this basis, Acetyls businesses will join the segment and the Lavra and our RRR was 78%, excluding equity-accounted entities, and Grangemouth refineries will be included in the Olefins and 89%, including equity-accounted entities.
The differences from Derivatives business.
our SORP-based estimates arise mainly from the use of yearA record performance for the refining business was end pricing, as required by the SEC.
All our proved reserves underpinned by strong product demand and good availability, replacement ratios are based on discoveries, extensions, which averaged 95.4% in 2004.
We concentrated on revisions and improved recovery and exclude the effects of optimizing our assets and taking advantage of our global acquisitions and disposals.
BP has a robust internal process scale and presence.
Focus on supply optimization, feedstock to control the quality of its reserve bookings, which forms selection and product value maximization helped us to part of a holistic and integrated system of internal control.
BPs Global Indicator Refining Margin Details of that process and the applicable rules are described was $6.08 a barrel, up from $3.88 in 2003.
Total global on pages 87-88 of BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004. refining throughput was down by about 4% as a result of planned disposals.
Refining and Marketing In our retail business, the number of sites carrying the Strong refining margins, combined with robust operating BP helios expanded to 19,828 worldwide during 2004. performance, led to a result of $5,603 million in 2004, a We launched Ultimate gasoline and diesel fuels in Australia, 78% improvement from 2003.
The relative weakening of Austria, France, Germany, Poland and Portugal.
These enhanced the US dollar compared with the euro and sterling negatively products deliver improved performance with fewer emissions affected results.
than standard fuel grades, and have received positive In our marketing businesses, strongly competitive sales responses from customers.
This resulted both from our In our lubricants business, we focused on pursuing key 27 Financial and business operating review Segment results $ million 2004 -900 Petrochemicals 2003 568 Strategy Focus the overall portfolio on areas with competitive Separate the portfolio, enabling the individual parts to advantage and restructure other assets.
develop strategic paths that deliver distinctive returns.
We plan to divest the Olefins and Derivatives business, possibly Focus starting with an Initial Public Offering in the second half of Our petrochemicals businesses have significant global market 2005, subject to market conditions and necessary approvals.
positions, underpinned by leading proprietary technology and Integrate the Aromatics and Acetyls businesses within the strong manufacturing capabilities.
Our activities focus on those Refining and Marketing segment, gaining operational and areas with a distinctive and significant competitive position.
Maintain leading market shares and Our products are ultimately used to service a wide range technology in these high-growth businesses, with a strong of consumer applications, increasingly in the fast-growing presence in Asia.
markets of Asia Pacific and China in particular.
customer segments and markets where we believe we have In 2004, we announced that, from 1 January 2005, the a premium position.
Our brands continued to experience Olefins and Derivatives O&D business would operate on above-market volume growth, supported by new marketing a standalone basis within the BP group.
We plan to divest the initiatives.
Growth was particularly strong in Asia, with Castrol O&D business, possibly starting with an Initial Public Offering BikeZone successfully launched in India and Vietnam.
New in the second half of 2005, subject to market conditions and product launches took place across the world, including the receipt of necessary approvals.
The O&D business markets Castrol GTX Start Up in the US and Castrol GTX High Mileage a wide range of petrochemicals, manufactured in more than in Europe.
2004 was also a good year for business-to-business fuels During 2004, several initiatives were announced, designed marketing activity in both margin and volume, particularly in the to strengthen the competitive standing of the O&D business.
This was partially offset by margin The Grangemouth and Lavra refineries will be incorporated squeeze and price lag in the lubricants and LPG businesses, into O&D, so preserving the opportunity to enhance further although volume demand remained robust.
We also successfully the benefits of site integration with their neighbouring launched the innovative new BP Gaslight composite LPG petrochemicals operations.
BP also agreed to acquire cylinder and Castrol TLX Plus in marine lubricants.
Solvays interests in the two BP Solvay high-density polyethylene ventures for inclusion in O&D.
Finally, Nova Petrochemicals Chemicals and O&D agreed in principle to combine their Petrochemicals result was a loss of $900 million in 2004. respective styrene polymer interests in a joint venture, Record sales and production volumes, underpinned by creating a major European polystyrene operation.
Subject strong demand and by increased utilization and reliability to regulatory approval, the joint venture is expected to at manufacturing sites, were more than offset by higher start in mid-2005.
BP will retain the Aromatics and Acetyls A&A operations Focus on commercial and operational excellence, together as an important part of its customer-facing activities.
The A&A with generally improved market conditions, accelerated businesses have among the largest global market shares and performance.
Margin expansion was achieved despite high advanced technologies in these high-growth sectors.
BP aims and volatile prices for energy and feedstocks.
to grow the A&A businesses and several ongoing expansion The segment continued to upgrade its portfolio, focusing on projects in Asia will start up in 2005. areas with competitive advantage.
As a consequence, several With the announced changes, the Petrochemicals segment businesses that did not meet our strategic and financial criteria ceased to report separately as from 1 January 2005.
The were sold, together with the announced closure of several A&A operations will be included within the Refining and manufacturing units.
Substantial progress was made in Marketing segment: the O&D business will report within constructing the SECCO chemicals complex near Shanghai Other businesses and corporate.
The new structure is BP 50% and expanding the Chocolate Bayou olefins operation designed to offer the greatest opportunity for further in Texas.
Output from these investments is expected in 2005. improvement in overall performance and financial returns.
28 BP Annual Review 2004 Segment results $ million 2004 943 Gas, Power and Renewables 2003 570 Strategy Focus Capture distinctive world-scale market positions ahead In line with changing demand patterns for cleaner fuels, of supply.
BP seeks to participate at scale in the fast-growing markets Expand gross margin by providing distinctive products to for natural gas, gas liquids and solar energy.
We currently hold selected customer segments and optimizing the gas and some of the largest market shares in volumes sold in North power value chains.
American gas and natural gas liquids NGLs and significant Build a sustainable solar business and continue to strength in both the liquefied natural gas LNG and solar global assess the application of renewable and alternative markets.
We are expanding our LNG business by accessing energy sources.
import terminals in Asia Pacific, North America and Europe.
Gas, Power and Renewables value of the groups gas supplies from Trinidad, Egypt The result for the year was $943 million, an increase of 65% and elsewhere.
over 2003 and underpinned by record sales volumes achieved In the NGLs business, we maintained our position in North across all four principal business areas of LNG, NGLs, gas America as one of the largest marketers and producers in marketing and solar.
The NGLs business benefited from a firm terms of production and sales volumes.
There we had a very market environment by increasing sales by 14% and achieving strong year, benefiting from the high prices of NGLs seen high levels of availability.
Sales of natural gas increased by during 2004 and the wide differences between natural gas 4%, while volumes of gas supplied into liquefaction plants feedstocks and liquids prices, which give higher earnings.
The solar business grew sales by 38% and In Egypt, a new NGLs extraction plant BP 33.33% began delivered a full-year operating profit for the first time.
gas processing at Port Said.
We took a number of important steps to access major Our gas marketing and trading business had a good year, growth markets for the groups equity gas.
In Asia Pacific, with an operating result ahead of 2003s record performance.
agreements for the supply of LNG from the proposed Tangguh In North America, we are the largest gas marketer in volumes development in Indonesia BP 37.16% were signed with sold to end-use and wholesale markets and have a growing POSCO and K Power for supply to South Korea and with power marketing and trading business.
Our marketing and Sempra for supply to Mexico and US markets.
Together trading scale and scope provide exemplary market access with an earlier agreement to supply LNG to China, more for the groups North American equity gas production and than seven million tonnes a year of Tangguh LNG have been LNG imports.
We secured long-term capacity in several new secured.
This was a significant factor in the decision to sanction western US pipeline projects to support expected Rockies the development in early 2005. production growth and avoid capacity constraints seen in the In the Atlantic and Mediterranean regions, significant past.
We continued to expand our market presence in North progress was also made in creating opportunities to supply America by acquiring two gas marketing companies and LNG to North American and European gas markets.
In Egypt, extending two key energy alliance agreements.
we signed agreements to supply gas to the Damietta LNG Our solar business saw a record year, with strong sales plant and to purchase 1.45 billion cubic metres per year of growth, a positive operating result and positive cash flow.
LNG for supply to world markets.
Agreements finalized with The business benefited from the restructuring undertaken NGT Transco will make BP and Sonatrach of Algeria the first in 2003, which reduced the cost of supply, and also from companies since the 1980s to import LNG into the UK market strong industry demand, which is supporting higher from 2005. revenues.
We reduced product lines and distributors and Plans for the development of new LNG import terminals on improved customer focus and brand loyalty.
Our global lean the US East and Gulf coasts made good progress.
These new manufacturing initiative delivered major improvements in access points to market, together with existing capacity rights productivity, and production from our main operating facilities at Cove Point in Maryland, US, Bilbao in Spain and Isle of Grain, in Madrid, Spain, and Frederick, US, was stepped up to supply UK, should provide important opportunities to maximize the the higher sales.
29 Environmental and social performance Our fundamental purpose, as defined by BPs board, is to Our policy is to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, maximize shareholder value on a long-term basis by providing career development, promotion, training and reward for all constantly improving goods and services in a strongly employees, including those with disabilities.
All applicants and competitive way.
To be sustainably successful, we have employees are assessed against clear criteria related to job to gain and retain the support of many people, including requirements.
Where existing employees become disabled, employees, shareholders, customers and communities.
our policy is to provide continuing employment and training This report summarizes our performance.
More detail is wherever practicable.
published in BP Sustainability Report 2004.
Our People Assurance Survey PAS, completed by 74% of our employees in 2004, showed a 4% improvement in overall BP: our business employee satisfaction.
The way we work is guided by values integrity, honest dealing, BP values the diversity of its leadership.
At the end of 2004, treating everyone with respect and dignity, striving for mutual 15% of our top 610 leaders were female and 19% were of advantage, transparency and contributing to human progress.
nationalities other than the UK or US.
Our employee surveys These values are enshrined in practical policies and standards show that an inclusive culture is spreading.
In 2004, 70% that govern areas of our activity, including health, safety, of BP employees who responded to the PAS believed the security, environment, ethical conduct and business company had created an environment where people with relationships.
diverse backgrounds could succeed, up from 67% in 2003 We use a system of risk management to assess the impact and 60% in 2000.
We strive to build an environment in which of our activities on the environment, local economies and everyone can feel part of a meritocratic organization.
Where appropriate, accountability for managing During 2004, we made further progress in learning and environmental and social impacts is part of managers development opportunities for employees.
Around 5,000 people performance contracts, with specific objectives and milestones.
undertook the First Level Leaders programme, which provides Peoples safety is of the highest priority.
Managers are training for the first tier of management.
More than 1,800 of accountable for ensuring that safety risks are properly our 6,000 senior leaders took part in the Senior Level Leaders addressed, staff are trained and facilities are well maintained.
programme, designed to develop their leadership capabilities.
We closely monitor our safety performance.
BPs fourth Global Graduate Forum was attended by around In 2004, the number of injury cases resulting in our 300 graduates who joined in 2002, while around 250 people employees or contractors being away from work for a day or attended the Discover BP programme, launched to help senior more was 0.08 per 200,000 hours worked, compared with experienced recruits integrate rapidly into BP.
This performance is approaching the best in our We continue to support employee share ownership.
Through industry and also within our target set at 0.09 for 2004. our award-winning ShareMatch plan, run in 75 countries, we Despite meeting this important target and reducing overall match BP shares purchased by employees.
injury rates, we deeply regret the 11 workforce fatalities in 2004.
Communications with employees include global and local This compares with 20 in 2003 and 13 in 2002. magazines, intranet sites, DVDs, targeted e-mails and faceAs a global organization, we believe our workforce, leadership to-face communication.
Team meetings are the core of our and recruitment should reflect the diverse communities in employee consultation, complemented by formal processes which we operate.
We are continuing to focus on employing through works councils in parts of Europe.
This communication, and developing local staff and leaders in our operations along with training programmes, raises awareness of the worldwide.
Programmes in countries including China, Angola financial, economic, social and environmental factors affecting and Azerbaijan are ensuring that we continue to increase the BPs performance and contributes to employee development number of local employees.
We continue to emphasize the importance of doing business with high standards of ethical conduct.
To enhance our focus on compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies and a Long-term improvement in safety performance DAFWCF 1988-2004 standards, we developed a new centralized compliance and ethics function during 2004.
1.5 We promote our global employee concerns programme OpenTalk to give our staff the opportunity to report possible 1.0 breaches of law or company policy without fear of retaliation.
OpenTalk can be contacted via telephone, letter, e-mail or fax 0.5 and provides a translation service.
Matters raised are held in strict confidence and are referred for investigation via regional 0 ombudsmen within BP for resolution.
During 2004, 343 reports 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 were received from 44 countries and, where appropriate, action a Days away from work case frequency DAFWCF is the annual frequency per was taken.
200,000 hours of injuries that result in a person employee or contractor being Staff in positions of responsibility review with their teams all unable to work for a day shift or more.
For a full understanding of the underlying data on DAFWCF, please refer to our website.
compliance and ethical issues arising during the year.
They then 30 BP Annual Review 2004 certify to their manager that their personal actions and those continuous performance improvement at our sites to reduce of their teams have complied with the law and with company air emissions, water discharges and accidental releases, policy, disclosing any areas of possible non-compliance.
including oil spills to sea or land.
On completion of the process, the group chief executive Our shipping fleet transports significant volumes of oil and prepares his personal certificate on behalf of BP.
In future gas around the world.
In 2004, BP continued its strategy of years, these reports will be prepared against the requirements increasing its fleet in order to control the risk of a major oil outlined in our new code of conduct.
Our owned and operated fleet has We continue to apply our strong anti-corruption policy, grown from 36 ships in 2003 to 42 ships in December 2004, including prohibiting facilitation payments and identifying and 38 of which are double-hulled.
Most of these vessels are correcting any areas of non-compliance.
We take disciplinary leased, an approach that enables the group to renew the measures where appropriate.
In 2004, this included the fleet periodically.
We also charter additional vessels, which dismissal of 252 people for unethical behaviour, including are vetted to ensure they meet our rigorous standards.
In the area of renewable and alternative energies, BPs BP does not make corporate political contributions anywhere research and development focus has been on photovoltaics in the world and specifically made no donations to UK or other and hydrogen.
We are pursuing initiatives aimed at improving EU political parties or organizations in 2004. the efficiency and cost of solar cells as well as the Promoting health awareness among our employees, development of new silicon sources and alternative wafer contractors and local communities provides long-term benefits fabrication techniques.
In hydrogen, we use our international to our people and our business.
In many areas of the world portfolio of practical demonstration projects to test new we face significant health issues, such as HIV AIDS.
During technologies and foster innovation.
2004, we increased our capability to assess health risks and implemented local initiatives.
BP in society We try to ensure that our relationships with non-governmental BP and the environment organizations NGOs, customers, suppliers, communities and BP was the first major oil company to state publicly that the governments are founded on the basis of mutual advantage.
risks of climate change were serious and that precautionary Our relationships develop over many years by seeking to action was justified.
While uncertainties remain, we believe understand the needs and aspirations of all with whom we business planning and long-term strategy should be based do business.
on the need to stabilize atmospheric concentrations of We made further progress on some concerns related greenhouse gases.
to the construction of the BTC pipeline, a project that has In 2001, BP had succeeded in lowering operational attracted some NGO opposition, particularly over human emissions by 10% from 1990 levels.
We now aim to offset rights issues.
The pipeline is being constructed to transport growth in our emissions by 2012, with reductions achieved oil from the Caspian to the Mediterranean, so avoiding partly from operational efficiency projects and partly from shipping through the Bosporus, and will help meet growing the supply of products that are cleaner or offer improved world demand.
We believe that open and thriving societies create the Our 2004 operational emissions of 81.7 million tonnes best environment for business.
During 2004, we contributed Mte were similar to those of 2003 83.4Mte.
Our emissions to international discussions on the issue of transparency.
would have been higher but for planned improvements in The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI is an operational efficiencies and divestments.
The efficiencies important programme that provides guidelines for disclosing resulted in more than 1Mte of sustainable reductions, which the amount of revenue governments receive from energy now total about 4Mte since 2001. companies, so demonstrating the scale of the funds available BP recognizes the need to protect and conserve sensitive for public spending.
Towards the end of 2004, a Memorandum areas that house the rich biodiversity of our planet.
We will of Understanding was signed in Baku, Azerbaijan, by the only work within sensitive areas if we believe we can properly government, state and foreign oil companies, setting out manage any risks to the environment.
clearly the process for implementation of the EITI in We have made a commitment to publish the results of Azerbaijan.
BP is committed to encouraging the acceleration risk assessments relating to any new activities in World of this process and will be supporting it with the publication Conservation Union IUCN designated sites.
In 2004, no of relevant data and information.
decisions were taken to go into such areas.
Our website Our business activities affect and benefit people details all known IUCN category I to VI areas where we have worldwide.
We seek to extend these benefits as broadly facilities.
During 2004, further work was undertaken to ensure as possible.
During 2004, we reviewed our strategy of that our approach when entering areas for exploration and social investment and intend to focus on education, on production is consistent and transparent.
the development of thriving local enterprise and on By the end of 2004, 100% of our major operations had providing access to energy in remote locations.
We continue been independently certified to the ISO 14001 international to support many initiatives in the communities in which standard on environmental management.
This system drives we operate.
31 Summary group income statement For the year ended 31 December $ million Note 2004 2003 Group turnover 285,059 232,571 Group replacement cost operating profit 3 19,246 15,673 Share of profits of joint ventures 2,933 923 Share of profits of associated undertakings 605 511 Total replacement cost operating profit 4 22,784 17,107 Profit loss on sale of businesses or termination of operations 5 695 28 Profit loss on sale of fixed assets 5 1,510 859 Replacement cost profit before interest and tax 23,599 17,938 Stock holding gains losses 1,643 16 Historical cost profit before interest and tax 25,242 17,954 Interest expense 642 644 Other finance expense 357 547 Profit before taxation 24,243 16,763 Taxation 8,282 6,111 Profit after taxation 15,961 10,652 Minority shareholders interest MSI 230 170 Profit for the year 15,731 10,482 Distribution to shareholders 6 6,371 5,753 Retained profit for the year 9,360 4,729 Earnings per ordinary share cents Basic 7 72.08 47.27 Diluted 7 70.79 46.83 Replacement cost results Historical cost profit for the year 15,731 10,482 Stock holding gains losses net of MSI 1,643 16 Replacement cost profit for the year 2 14,088 10,466 Earnings per ordinary share cents On replacement cost profit for the year 7 64.55 47.20 The summary financial statement on pages 1-36 and 38-45 was approved by a duly appointed and authorized committee of the board of directors on 7 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Sutherland, Chairman The Lord Browne of Madingley, Group Chief Executive 32 BP Annual Review 2004 Summary group balance sheet At 31 December $ million 2004 2003 Fixed assets Intangible assets 12,076 13,642 Tangible assets 96,748 91,911 Investments 18,406 17,458 127,230 123,011 Current assets Stocks 15,698 11,617 Debtors 46,696 33,902 Investments 328 185 Cash at bank and in hand 1,156 1,947 63,878 47,651 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Finance debt 10,184 9,456 Other creditors 54,341 41,128 Net current assets liabilities 647 2,933 Total assets less current liabilities 126,583 120,078 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year Finance debt 12,907 12,869 Other creditors 4,505 6,030 Provisions for liabilities and charges Deferred taxation 15,050 14,371 Other provisions 9,608 8,599 Net assets excluding pension and other post-retirement benefit balances 84,513 78,209 Defined benefit pension plan surplus 1,475 1,146 Defined benefit pension plan deficits 5,863 5,005 Other post-retirement benefit plan deficit 2,126 2,630 Net assets 77,999 71,720 Minority shareholders interest equity 1,343 1,125 BP shareholders interest 76,656 70,595 Represented by Capital and reserves Called up share capital 5,403 5,552 Reserves 71,253 65,043 76,656 70,595 Movements in BP shareholders interest At 31 December 2003 75,938 Prior year adjustment 5,343 Restated 70,595 Profit for the year 15,731 Distribution to shareholders 6,371 Currency translation differences net of tax 2,136 Unrealized gain on acquisition of further investment in equity-accounted investments 94 Actuarial gain net of tax 203 Issue of ordinary share capital for employee share schemes 487 Issue of ordinary share capital for TNK-BP 1,250 Purchase of shares by ESOP trusts 147 Charge for long-term performance plans and employee share schemes 226 Repurchase of ordinary share capital 7,548 At 31 December 2004 76,656 33 Summary group cash flow statement For the year ended 31 December $ million 2004 2003 a Net cash inflow from operating activities 28,554 21,698 Dividends from joint ventures 1,908 131 Dividends from associated undertakings 291 417 Net cash outflow from servicing of finance and returns on investments 342 711 Tax paid 6,378 4,804 Net cash outflow for capital expenditure and financial investment 8,712 6,124 Net cash outflow for acquisitions and disposals 3,242 3,548 Equity dividends paid 6,041 5,654 Net cash inflow outflow 6,038 1,405 Financing 6,777 1,129 Management of liquid resources 132 41 Increase decrease in cash 871 317 6,038 1,405 a Reconciliation of historical cost profit before interest and tax to net cash inflow from operating activities $ million 2004 2003 Historical cost profit before interest and tax 25,242 17,954 Depreciation and amounts provided 12,583 10,940 Exploration expenditure written off 274 297 Net operating charge for pensions and other post-retirement benefits, less contributions 67 2,913 Share of profits of joint ventures and associated undertakings 3,574 1,438 Interest and other income 325 341 Profit loss on sale of fixed assets and businesses or termination of operations 815 831 Increase decrease in working capital and other items 4,764 1,970 Net cash inflow from operating activities 28,554 21,698 Notes 1 Presentation of the accounts These summarized financial statements represent an abridged version of the financial statements in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004.
For 2004, the group has changed the method of accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits and the method of accounting for BP shares held by the group for the purposes of Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs to comply with new UK accounting pronouncements.
Comparative figures have been restated to reflect these changes in accounting policy, and also to reflect the transfer of natural gas liquids NGLs operations from the Exploration and Production segment to Gas, Power and Renewables.
2 Replacement cost profit Replacement cost profits reflect the current cost of supplies.
The replacement cost profit is arrived at by excluding stock holding gains and losses from the historical cost profit.
3 Other income $ million 2004 2003 Group replacement cost operating profit includes Income from other fixed asset investments 76 157 Other interest and miscellaneous income 599 629 4 Analysis of total replacement cost profit before interest and tax $ million $ million By business 2004 2003 By geographical area 2004 2003 Exploration and Production 18,520 14,666 UK 1,927 2,650 Refining and Marketing 4,722 2,318 Rest of Europe 2,691 2,350 Petrochemicals 900 568 USA 8,045 5,935 Gas, Power and Renewables 943 570 Rest of World 10,936 7,003 Other businesses and corporate 314 184 23,599 17,938 23,599 17,938 34 BP Annual Review 2004 Notes 5 Exceptional items $ million 2004 2003 Exceptional items comprise profit loss on sale of fixed assets and businesses or termination of operations as follows Loss on sale of businesses or termination of operations 695 28 695 28 Profit on sale of fixed assets 1,829 1,894 Loss on sale of fixed assets 319 1,035 Exceptional items 815 831 Taxation credit charge Sale of businesses or termination of operations 238 Sale of fixed assets 23 123 Exceptional items net of tax 1,076 708 Loss on sale of businesses or termination of operations Refining and Marketing $132 million $28 million The closure of the lubricants operation of the Coryton refinery in the UK and of refining operations at the ATAS refinery in Mersin, Turkey.
For 2003, the sale of the groups European oil speciality products business.
Petrochemicals $563 million nil The sale of the speciality intermediate chemicals business: the sale of the fabrics and fibres business: the closure of two manufacturing plants at Hull, UK, which produced acids: and the closure of the linear alpha-olefins production facility at Pasadena, Texas.
Profit on sale of fixed assets Exploration and Production $379 million $1,591 million The group divested interests in a number of oil and natural gas properties in both years.
For 2004, this included interests in oil and natural gas properties in Australia, Canada and the Gulf of Mexico, and the reversal of the provision for the loss on sale of $217 million for the Desarrollo Zuli Occidental DZO and Boqueron fields in Venezuela see below.
For 2003, the divestment of a further 20% interest in BP Trinidad and Tobago LLC to Repsol: the sale of the groups 96.14% interest in the Forties oil field in the UK North Sea: the sale of a package of UK Southern North Sea gas fields: and the divestment of our interest in the In Amenas gas condensate project in Algeria to Statoil.
Refining and Marketing $107 million $89 million The sale of the Cushing and other pipeline interests in the US and the churn of retail assets.
In 2003, the divestment of pipeline interests in the US.
Gas, Power and Renewables $56 million $11 million The divestment of BPs interest in two natural gas liquids plants in Canada.
For 2003, the sale and leaseback of rail cars.
Petrochemicals nil $55 million For 2003, the sale of our interest in AG International Chemical Company, a purified isophthalic acid associated undertaking in Japan and other minor divestments.
Other businesses and corporate $1,287 million $148 million The divestment of the groups investments in PetroChina and Sinopec.
In 2003, the group sold its 50% interest in Kaltim Prima Coal, an Indonesian company, and certain other investments.
Loss on sale of fixed assets Exploration and Production $227 million $678 million The group divested interests in a number of oil and natural gas properties in both years.
For 2004, this included interests in oil and natural gas properties in Indonesia and the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2003, this included losses on exploration and production properties in China, Norway and the US and the provision for losses on sale in early 2004 of exploration and production properties in Canada and Venezuela.
In respect of Venezuela, the sales agreement for our interests in the DZO and Boqueron fields lapsed in early 2004, and the fields have been retained.
The provision for a loss on disposal of $217 million recognized in 2003 was reversed in 2004 and an impairment charge of $186 million was recognized.
Refining and Marketing $92 million $274 million The divestment of the Singapore refinery and retail churn.
For 2003, retail churn and the sale of refinery and retail interests in Germany and Central Europe.
Gas, Power and Renewables nil $17 million Petrochemicals nil $17 million Other businesses and corporate nil $49 million 6 Distribution to shareholders pence per share cents per share $ million 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 2003 Preference dividends non-equity 22 Dividends per ordinary share First quarterly 3.807 3.947 6.75 6.25 1,483 1,386 Second quarterly 3.860 4.039 7.10 6.50 1,535 1,433 Third quarterly 3.910 3.857 7.10 6.50 1,530 1,438 Fourth quarterly 4.522 3.674 8.50 6.75 1,821 1,494 16.099 15.517 29.45 26.00 6,371 5,753 7 Earnings per ordinary share The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, i. e. profit for the year less preference dividends, related to the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The profit attributable to ordinary shareholders is $15,729 million $10,480 million.
The average number of shares outstanding excludes the shares held by the Employee Share Ownership Plans.
35 Notes 7 Earnings per ordinary share continued The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, adjusted for the unwinding of the discount on the deferred consideration for the acquisition of our interest in TNK-BP, of $15,793 million $10,504 million.
The number of shares outstanding is adjusted to show the potential dilution if employee share options are converted into ordinary shares, and for the ordinary shares issuable, in two further annual tranches, in respect of the TNK-BP joint venture.
In addition to basic earnings per share based on the historical cost profit for the year, a further measure, based on replacement cost profit before exceptional items, is provided as it is considered that this measure gives an indication of underlying performance.
8 Capital expenditure and acquisitions $ million $ million By business 2004 2003 By geographical area 2004 2003 Exploration and Production 11,193 15,370 UK 1,832 1,556 Refining and Marketing 3,014 3,080 Rest of Europe 2,105 1,277 Petrochemicals 2,289 775 USA 6,301 6,291 Gas, Power and Renewables 538 441 Rest of World 7,011 10,888 Other businesses and corporate 215 346 17,249 20,012 17,249 20,012 9 Directors remuneration $ million 2004 2003 Total for all directors Emoluments 19 17 Ex-gratia payments to executive directors retiring in the year 1 Gains made on the exercise of share options 31 Amounts awarded under incentive schemes 64 Emoluments These amounts comprise fees paid to the non-executive chairman and the non-executive directors and, for executive directors, salary and benefits earned during the relevant financial year, plus bonuses awarded for the year.
Pension contributions Six executive directors participated in a non-contributory pension scheme established for UK staff by a separate trust fund to which contributions are made by BP based on actuarial advice.
One US executive director participated in the US BP Retirement Accumulation Plan during 2004.
Office facilities for former chairmen and deputy chairmen It is customary for the company to make available to former chairmen and deputy chairmen, who were previously employed executives, the use of office and basic secretarial facilities following their retirement.
The cost involved in doing so is not significant.
Further information Further details of individual directors remuneration are given in the summary directors remuneration report on pages 40-43.
Independent auditors statement To the Members of BP p. l. c. We have examined the groups summary financial statement for the year ended 31 December 2004.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent required by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing BP Annual Review 2004 in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within BP Annual Review 2004 with the full annual accounts, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in BP Annual Review 2004 and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor, London, 7 February 2005 The auditors have issued an unqualified audit report on the annual accounts containing no statement under section 237 2 or section 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
36 BP Annual Review 2004 United States accounting principles The following is a summary of adjustments to profit for the year and to BP shareholders interest which would be required if generally accepted accounting principles in the United States US GAAP had been applied instead of those generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
The results are stated using the first-in first-out method of stock valuation.
$ million 2004 2003 Profit for the year as reported 15,731 10,482 Adjustments Deferred taxation business combinations 591 169 Provisions 140 49 Oil and natural gas reserve differences 30 Revisions to fair market values 289 Sale and leaseback 6 69 Goodwill and intangible assets 1,429 1,376 Derivative financial instruments 286 12 Gain arising on asset exchange 68 17 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 47 215 Impairments 677 Provisions for severance and operating costs 60 Equity-accounted investments 226 Other 43 13 Profit for the year before cumulative effect of accounting changes as adjusted to accord with US GAAP 16,972 11,889 Provisions 1,002 Derivative financial instruments 50 Profit for the year as adjusted to accord with US GAAP 16,972 12,941 Dividend requirement on preference shares 22 Profit for the year applicable to ordinary shares as adjusted to accord with US GAAP 16,970 12,939 Per ordinary share cents Basic before cumulative effect of accounting changes 77.77 53.62 Cumulative effect of accounting changes 4.74 77.77 58.36 Diluted before cumulative effect of accounting changes 76.35 53.10 Cumulative effect of accounting changes 4.69 76.35 57.79 a Per American depositary share cents Basic before cumulative effect of accounting changes 466.62 321.72 Cumulative effect of accounting changes 28.44 466.62 350.16 Diluted before cumulative effect of accounting changes 458.10 318.60 Cumulative effect of accounting changes 28.14 458.10 346.74 $ million 2004 2003 BP shareholders interest as reported 76,656 70,595 Adjustments Deferred taxation business combinations 1,533 938 Provisions 137 128 Oil and natural gas reserve differences 30 Sale and leaseback 43 37 Goodwill and intangible assets 3,200 1,669 Derivative financial instruments 361 72 Gain arising on asset exchange 61 129 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 5,008 5,246 Impairments 677 Provisions for severance and operating costs 60 Equity-accounted investments 226 Dividends 1,822 1,495 Investments 183 1,251 Other 43 BP shareholders interest as adjusted to accord with US GAAP 85,849 79,167 a One American depositary share ADS is equivalent to six 25 cent ordinary shares.
37 Governance: summary board performance report Good governance is often defined in terms of the presence or absence the dialogue with shareholders concerning the governance and of particular practices without reference to the underlying purpose of operation of the group maintained by the company secretarys office, governance processes.
We believe that governance is a more powerful investor relations and other BP teams.
Governance is not an exercise in compliance nor is it a higher Given the size and geographical diversity of our shareholder base, form of management.
the opportunities for shareholder interaction at the AGM are limited.
However, the chairman and all board committee chairmen were Governance is the system by which the companys owners and present at the 2004 AGM to answer shareholders questions and their representatives on the board ensure that it pursues, does not hear their views during the meeting.
Members of the board met deviate from and only allocates resources to its defined purpose.
All votes at shareholder The boards role is focused on those tasks which are unique to meetings, whether by proxy or in person, are counted since all votes, it as the representative of our owners those activities which are except on procedural issues, are taken by way of a poll.
We have necessary for the effective promotion of their interests.
Governance pioneered the use of electronic communications and continue to lies at the heart of all the board does, ensuring the pursuit of the promote the use of electronic voting through our registrars website companys purpose.
As a company, we recognize the importance of good governance and that it is a discrete task from management, requiring distinct skills How our board governs the company and processes.
Clarity of roles is key to our approach.
Policies and The boards governance policies regulate its relationship with processes depend upon the people who operate them.
In the context shareholders, the conduct of board affairs and the boards relationship of BP, governance is overseen by our board while management is with the group chief executive.
The policies recognize the boards delegated to the group chief executive by means of the board separate and unique role as the link in the chain of authority between governance policies.
the shareholders and the group chief executive.
It is this unique task These board governance policies use a coherent, principles-based which gives the board its central role in governance.
Our policies anticipated many developments in UK governance practice and have proved robust in the evolving regulatory Owners shareholders climate.
They ensure that our board and management operate within Authority Accountability a clear and effective governance framework, which goes beyond Delegation Assurance Board through through regulatory compliance and places shareholder interest at the heart policy with monitoring of all we do.
monitoring and reporting Group chief executive Accountability to shareholders GCEs management framework delegations Our board is required to be proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences and to evaluate systematically the Executive management economic, social, environmental and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interest of our shareholders.
In carrying out its work in policy-making and monitoring and in its active consideration of group The dual role played by the group chief executive and executive strategy, our board exercises judgement on how best to further directors as both members of the board and leaders of the executive shareholder interest.
The board seeks to do so by maximizing the management is also recognized and addressed.
The policies therefore expected value of shareholders interest in the company, not by require a majority of the board to be composed of independent noneliminating the possibility of any adverse outcomes.
executive directors, who oversee the relationship between the board and the group chief executive, particularly through the work of the Our board is accountable to shareholders for the performance board committees they populate.
and activities of the entire BP group.
It embeds shareholder Recognizing that as a group its capacity is limited, our board reserves interest in the goals established for the company.
to itself the making of broad policy decisions.
It delegates more detailed Directors are required to stand for re-election each year.
New considerations involved in meeting its stated requirements either to directors are subject to election at the first opportunity following board committees and officers in the case of its own processes or their appointment.
All names submitted to shareholders for election to the group chief executive in the case of the management of the are accompanied by detailed biographies.
A number of formal communication channels are used to account To discharge its governance function in the most effective manner, to shareholders for the performance of the company.
These include our board has laid down rules for its own activities in a board process the Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual Review, the Annual policy.
The board-executive linkage policy sets out how the board Report on Form 20-F, quarterly Forms 6-K and announcements made delegates authority to the group chief executive and the extent through stock exchanges on which BP shares are listed, as well as of that authority.
In its goals policy, the board states the long-term through the annual general meeting AGM.
Presentations given at outcome and required results it expects the group chief executive appropriate intervals to representatives of the investment community to deliver.
The restrictions on the manner in which the group chief are available via internet broadcast or open conference call.
Less executive may achieve the required results are set out in the executive formal processes include contacts with institutional shareholders by limitations policy, which addresses internal control, risk preferences, the chairman and other non-executive directors.
This is supported by financing, ethical behaviour, health, safety, the environment, treatment 38 BP Annual Review 2004 of employees and political considerations.
Through the goals and in which it operates and other matters throughout their period in office.
executive limitations policies, the board shapes BPs values and Executive directors are permitted to take up an external board standards.
On all these matters the boards role is to set general appointment, subject to the agreement of our board.
Non-executive policy and to monitor its observance by the group chief executive directors may serve on a number of outside boards, always provided throughout BP.
they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment to discharge effectively their duties to BP.
Accountability in our business Regular evaluation of board effectiveness underpins our confidence Our group chief executive outlines how he intends to deliver the in BPs governance policies and processes and affords opportunity required outcome in annual and medium-term plans.
The group chief for their development.
executive is obliged through dialogue and systematic review to discuss with our board all material matters currently or prospectively affecting During 2004, our board continued its ongoing evaluation processes the company and its performance.
to assess its performance and identify areas in which its effectiveness, The board recognizes that, in the multitude of changing policies or processes might be enhanced.
circumstances, judgement is always involved.
Governance and control systems are therefore designed to manage, rather than The chairman and senior independent director to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the board goals policy Between board meetings the chairman has responsibility for ensuring or observe the executive limitations policy.
They provide reasonable, the integrity and effectiveness of the board executive relationship.
Our not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
board governance policies require the chairman and deputy chairman to be non-executive directors: throughout 2004 the posts were held by Who is on the board?
Mr Sutherland and Sir Ian Prosser respectively.
Sir Ian also acts as our The efficiency and effectiveness of the board are paramount.
The company secretary reports to the The board is composed of the chairman, 12 non-executive and chairman and is not part of the executive management.
In total, five nationalities are represented on the board.
Directors biographies are set out on page 44.
Board committees The board process policy allocates the tasks of monitoring executive Governance policies and processes depend upon the quality actions and assessing performance to certain board committees.
and commitment of the people who operate them.
These tasks, which are summarized in the table below, prescribe The qualification for board membership includes a requirement that all the role and authority of the board committees.
The company non-executive directors be free from any relationship with the executive secretarys office provides advice and support to the board and management of the company that could materially interfere with the all board committees, ensuring their processes are demonstrably exercise of their independent judgement.
In the boards view, all our independent of the executive management.
non-executive directors fulfil this requirement.
Board and committee meetings Serving as a director: induction, training and evaluation In addition to the AGM, the board met eight times during 2004, Directors receive induction on their appointment covering matters such as five times in the UK, twice in the US and once in continental Europe.
the operation and activities of the group including key financial, business, Two of these meetings were two-day strategy discussions.
2004 social and environmental risks to the groups activities, the role of the saw an increased number of committee meetings.
The board requires board and the matters reserved for its decision, the tasks and membership all members to devote sufficient time to the work of the board to of the principal board committees, and the latest financial information discharge the office of director and to use their best endeavours about the group.
Directors are updated on BPs business, the environment to attend meetings.
BP Board of Directors BP board committee tasks Audit committee Chairmans committee Remuneration committee Monitors all reporting, accounting, Considers broad issues of governance, Determines the remuneration control and financial aspects of including the overall effectiveness of the of the group chief executive executive management activities.
chairman and the group chief executive.
Ethics and environment Nomination committee assurance committee Considers board composition and Monitors the non-financial aspects succession planning issues, including of executive management activities, the appointment and reappointment such as ethical conduct, environmental of directors.
matters and health and safety.
39 Summary directors remuneration report This is a summary of the directors remuneration report which is set out on pages 116-125 of BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004, a copy of which shareholders may obtain, free of charge see page 45.
Part 1 Executive directors remuneration Dear Shareholder 2004 was a good year.
Company results, as explained elsewhere, were excellent and the remuneration committees priority on relating pay to performance is reflected in the annual bonus payments commensurate with this high level of achievement.
These and all other aspects of the executive directors remuneration during the year are set out in detail in the committees report that follows.
The committee also undertook a comprehensive and independent review of remuneration policy for the executive directors during 2004, prior to seeking your approval for the renewal of the long-term incentive plan at this years AGM resolution 23.
As part of this review, we commissioned significant and wide-ranging academic research and sought the views of major shareholders in an effort to consider the fundamental bases underlying our remuneration policies and practices.
The depth and extensive nature of this review have meant that our policy and practices are underpinned by a strong set of principles, which guide the committees deliberations.
Full details of these are set out in the report.
Measures of performance lie at the heart of any performance-based system and we have, with extensive advice and considerable time, examined different approaches.
While there is no perfect measure, we believe the selected quantitative and qualitative measures are the most appropriate for BP.
Given the inherent imperfections of any measure of performance, we also see the use of our judgement as an integral part of the process.
We recognize that our relationship with you is built on trust, and we are clear that it is important for us to be transparent in our explanations to you of how we have reached decisions and exercised our discretion.
We have an excellent team of world-class executive directors leading the company.
The remuneration decisions we have taken for 2004 appropriately reflect the high level of performance achieved during the year.
The policy we have set out for the future should continue to align their remuneration with shareholders interests as well as to engage them in pursuing long-term shareholder value.
Sir Robin Nicholson Dr D S Julius Chairman, Remuneration Committee Chairman elect, Remuneration Committee 7 February 2005 The remuneration committee Advice The committee receives independent advice from the company Tasks include: secretarys office, which is independent of executive management Determining the terms of engagement and remuneration of the and reports to the chairman of the board.
Mr Aronson, an independent group chief executive and the executive directors and reporting consultant, is the committees secretary and special adviser.
The on those to the shareholders.
committee also appoints other independent advisers to provide Determining on behalf of the board matters of policy over which additional specialist advice on particular matters.
the company has authority relating to the establishment or operation of the companys pension scheme of which the executive directors Policy on executive directors remuneration are members.
A key priority for the committee in 2004 has been its comprehensive Nominating on behalf of the board any trustees of such scheme.
and independent review of all elements of remuneration policy for Monitoring the policies being applied by the group chief executive executive directors prior to seeking specific shareholder approval for in remunerating senior executives other than executive directors.
renewal of the Executive Directors Incentive Plan, which expires in 2005.
As part of this review, the committee developed the following Constitution and operation The committee members are all nonkey principles to guide its policy: executive directors.
Sir Robin Nicholson chairman, Mr Davis, Dr Julius, Policy for the remuneration of executive directors shall be determined Mr Knight and Sir Ian Prosser were members throughout the year, and regularly reviewed independently of executive management with Sir Tom McKillop and Mr Bryan joining them in November 2004. and will set the tone for the remuneration of other senior executives.
Sir Robin Nicholson and Mr Knight will both be retiring at the 2005 The remuneration structure shall support and reflect BPs stated AGM and Dr Julius will become the committee chairman.
Each purpose to maximize long-term shareholder value.
member is now subject to annual re-election as a director of the The remuneration structure shall reflect a just system of rewards company.
The board considers all the members of the committee for the participants.
The overall quantum of all potential remuneration components 40 BP Annual Review 2004 shall be determined by the exercise of informed judgement of Salary The committee expects to review salaries in 2005.
In doing the independent remuneration committee, taking into account so, the committee considers both Europe-based top global companies the success of BP and the competitive global market.
and the US oil and gas sector.
The majority of the remuneration shall be linked to the achievement of demanding performance targets that are independently set and Annual bonus Each executive director is eligible to participate in an reflect the creation of long-term shareholder value.
The committee reviews Assessment of performance shall be quantitative and qualitative and sets bonus targets and levels of eligibility annually.
and shall include exercise of informed judgement by the committee The 2005 target level will be 120% of base salary 130% for within a framework that takes account of sector characteristics the group chief executive.
In normal circumstances, the maximum and is approved by shareholders.
payment level for substantially exceeding targets will continue The committee shall be proactive in obtaining an understanding to be 150% 165% for the group chief executive of base salary.
In exceptional circumstances, outstanding performance may be Remuneration policy and practices shall be as transparent as recognized by bonus payments moderately in excess of the 150% possible both for participants and shareholders.
165% levels, at the discretion of the committee.
Similarly, bonuses may be reduced where the committee considers that this is warranted Key policy decisions The committee reviewed the existing and, in exceptional circumstances, bonuses can be reduced to zero.
remuneration policies and plans against these principles, and the The committee will explain any significant exercise of discretion in following are some of its key policy decisions: the subsequent directors remuneration report.
The overall quantum of remuneration and the general balance For 2005, the annual bonuses will be based on a mix of demanding between short-term and long-term elements are to be maintained.
financial targets based on the companys annual plan and leadership Salary levels will continue to be reviewed regularly by reference objectives established at the beginning of the year.
In addition to to those in Europe-based top global companies and the US oil strategic metrics and milestones, they include areas such as people, and gas sector, applying the committees judgement.
safety, environment, technology and organization, as well as an The long-term incentives framework of the existing Executive individual performance component.
Directors Incentive Plan EDIP remains sound, although some changes to policy and application are now appropriate.
Specific Long-term incentives Long-term incentives will continue to be shareholder approval is being sought for renewal of the EDIP provided under the EDIP.
Each executive director participates in this for a further five years.
Full details are contained in the further plan.
The committees policy, subject to unforeseen circumstances, information to resolution 23 in the notice of the 2005 AGM.
is that this should continue until the EDIP expires or is renewed in The share element of the EDIP will provide the long-term 2010.
The committees policy that each executive director should performance-based component of the executive directors hold shares equivalent in value to 5 x the directors base salary is remuneration package.
There is no current intention to make reflected in the terms of the EDIP.
It continues to have within its further share options grants.
framework three elements: a share element, a share option element The majority of the value previously attributed to share options and a cash element.
The committee does not currently intend to is to be redistributed to the share element, with the remainder use either the share option or cash elements but, in exceptional going to the annual bonus.
The measure of long-term performance for the share element Under the share element, the committee may make conditional will be relative total shareholder return TSR, compared with share awards performance shares to executive directors, which only the other oil majors over three-year periods, with underlying vest to the extent that, at the end of a three-year performance period, relative performance also being assessed by the committee.
a demanding performance condition is met.
The maximum value that A proportion of the share element for the current group chief may be awarded will be determined by the committee, and in any executive will be based on long-term personal leadership measures.
one year will not normally exceed 5.5 x base salary and, in the case of Maintain the shareholding requirement of 5 x directors base salary.
the group chief executive, 7.5 x base salary.
Shares awarded are then held in trust for three years before they are released to the individual.
Elements of remuneration The executive directors total remuneration This gives the executive directors a six-year incentive structure.
will continue to consist of salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits.
In 2005, over three-quarters of executive Timeline for 2005-2007 EDIP share element directors potential direct remuneration will again be performancerelated see illustrative chart below.
Performance period Retention period Award Vesting Release On-target remuneration elements 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Base salary Performance-related annual bonus For share element awards in 2005 the performance condition will Performance-related share element relate to BPs TSR against the other oil majors ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and ChevronTexaco over a three-year period.
The committee considers this to be the best measure of performance for the longThis chart reflects on-target values for annual bonus and share element.
term incentives for executive directors as it best reflects the creation 41 Summary directors remuneration report of long-term shareholder value.
Shares under the award will vest as Pensions Executive directors are eligible to participate in the to 100%, 70% and 35% if BP achieves first, second or third place appropriate pension schemes applying in their home countries.
respectively: no shares will vest if BP achieves fourth or fifth place.
UK directors are members of the BP Pension Scheme.
The scheme The committee will have the ability to exercise discretion in a offers Inland Revenue-approved retirement benefits based on final reasonable and informed manner to adjust upwards or downwards salary.
The committee will review the impact of the new proposals the vesting level derived from the ranking if it considers that the ranking on pensions by the UK government and report further on the does not fairly reflect BPs underlying business performance relative to outcome next year.
Lord Browne remains eligible for consideration the comparator group.
The exercise of this discretion would be made for a payment from the company of an ex-gratia lump-sum after a broad analysis of the underlying health of BPs business relative superannuation payment equal to one years base salary following to competitors, as shown by a range of other measures including, but his retirement.
Further details are set out in BP Annual Report and not limited to, return on average capital employed, earnings per share Accounts 2004.
Dr Grote, as a US director, participates in the US BP growth, reserves replacement and cash flow.
In line with its policy Retirement Accumulation Plan US Plan, which features a cash balance on transparency, the committee will explain any adjustment to the formula, and in the Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefit, which relative TSR ranking in the next directors remuneration report is a non-qualified top-up arrangement.
The committee reviews and approves annually the performance Service contracts The committees policy on executive directors measures and the comparator companies.
A portion of the share service contracts is for them to contain a maximum notice period element for the group chief executive up to 2 x base salary will of one year.
This policy has now been fully implemented.
be based on long-term personal leadership measures, focusing on sustaining BPs financial, strategic and organizational health.
Annual bonus is shown in the year it was earned.
a Gross award of shares based on a performance assessment by the remuneration committee and on the other terms of the plan.
Sufficient shares are sold to pay for tax applicable.
Remaining shares are held in trust for current directors until 2008, when they are released to the individual.
b Based on closing price of BP shares on 3 February 2005 5.34 per share $60.49 per ADS.
c Based on average market price on date of award 4.13 per share $47.96 per ADS.
d Performance units granted under the 2004-2006 share element of the EDIP are converted to shares at the end of the performance period.
Maximum of two shares per performance unit.
e Options granted in February 2004 have a grant price of 4.22 per share.
Dr Grote holds options over ADSs: the above numbers reflect calculated equivalents.
f Reflects remuneration received by Mr Conn since appointment as executive director on 1 July 2004. g Includes resettlement allowance for Dr Grote of $175,000, which expired in 2003. h Mr Manzoni also received compensation of 50,000 in 2004 relating to expatriate costs prior to his appointment as an executive director.
i Amounts for Mr Olver reflect the period until his retirement on 1 July 2004.
42 BP Annual Review 2004 Salary Base salaries for Lord Browne, Dr Allen, Dr Hayward and Further details of share options and all long-term awards are set Mr Manzoni were increased by 5% per annum with effect from out in BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004.
Dr Grotes salary was increased by approximately 15% with effect from 1 July 2004 to reflect his expanded role, following Historical TSR performance the retirement of Mr Olver.
This graph is included to meet a legislative requirement and shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in BP p. l. c. ordinary Annual bonus The annual bonus awards for 2004 are based on shares over five years relative to the FTSE 100 and to the FTSE All a mix of financial targets and leadership objectives established World Oil & Gas Index.
These are considered to be the most relevant at the beginning of the year.
2004 was an extremely good year.
broad equity market indices for this purpose and the company is a Assessment of all the results produced an award of 150% of constituent of both indices.
salary for the executive directors and 165% of salary for the group 160 chief executive.
All calculations have been reviewed by the auditors.
150 140 Share element of EDIP and Long Term Performance Plans LTPPs 130 For the 2002-2004 share element of the EDIP and the LTPPs, BPs 120 performance was assessed in terms of BPs shareholder return 110 against the market SHRAM, return on average capital employed 100 ROACE and earnings per share EPS growth.
BPs SHRAM was 90 measured against the companies in the FTSE All World Oil & Gas 80 Index: BPs ROACE and EPS growth relative to that of ExxonMobil, 70 Shell, Total and ChevronTexaco.
Based on a performance assessment 60 of 75 points out of 200 0 for SHRAM, 50 for ROACE and 25 for Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 EPS growth, the committee expects to make awards of shares to executive directors in 2005 as highlighted in the table on page 42.
FTSE 100 FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index BP Part 2 Non-executive directors remuneration Information subject to audit Non-executive directors remuneration including that of the chairman Remuneration of non-executive directors thousand is set by the board within limits approved from time to time by the Current directors 2004 2003 shareholders.
An increase in this limit was approved at the 2004 AGM.
J H Bryan 100 95 a In setting the level and structure of remuneration within that limit, A Burgmans 53 n a the board is guided by the need to attract and retain world-class E B Davis, Jr 105 90 non-executive directors, and to ensure that their reward is proportional Dr D S Julius 75 80 to their contribution to the company.
C F Knight 90 95 b Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, which recognize Sir Tom McKillop 38 n a that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service is at the Dr W E Massey 115 110 c discretion of shareholders.
Their remuneration is in the form of cash fees, H M P Miles 75 80 d paid monthly, with increments for positions of additional responsibility, Sir Robin Nicholson 90 95 reflecting additional workload and consequent potential liability.
Sir Ian Prosser 110 115 Non-executive directors are encouraged to establish a holding in P D Sutherland 390 390 BP shares broadly related to one years base fee.
No share options M H Wilson 95 95 are granted to non-executive directors.
Director leaving the board in 2004 e F A Maljers 16 80 Non-executive directors fee structure a Appointed on 5 February 2004.
The current fee structure for non-executive directors, last revised b Appointed on 1 July 2004. c during 2002, is set out in the table below.
All fees are fixed and paid Also received 600 in 2003 for serving as a director of BP Pension Trustees Limited.
These fees are no longer payable to BP non-executive directors.
d thousand Also received 20,000 each year for serving as the boards representative on the BP technology advisory council.
a Chairman 390 e Retired at AGM on 15 April 2004. b Deputy chairman 85 Board member 65 Committee chairmanship fee 15 c Transatlantic attendance allowance 5 a The chairman is not eligible for committee chairmanship fees or transatlantic attendance allowance but has the use of a fully maintained office for company business and a chauffeured car.
b The deputy chairman receives a 20,000 increment on top of the standard board fee.
In addition, he is eligible for committee chairmanship fees and the transatlantic attendance allowance.
The deputy chairman is currently chairman of the audit committee.
c This allowance is payable to non-executive directors undertaking transatlantic travel for the purpose of attending a board meeting or board committee meeting.
43 Value of hypothetical 100 holding Board of directors Executive directors Non-executive directors The Lord Browne of Madingley, FREng P D Sutherland, KCMG, Chairman C F Knight Peter Sutherland 58 rejoined BPs board in 1995, having Charles Knight 69 joined BPs board in 1987.
He was Group Chief Executive been a non-executive director from 1990 to 1993, and employed by Lester B Knight and Associates of Chicago, Lord Browne 56 joined BP in 1966 and subsequently was appointed chairman in 1997.
He is non-executive consulting engineers, from 1961 to 1973.
In 1972, he held a variety of exploration and production and finance chairman of Goldman Sachs International and a nonjoined Emerson Electric Co. became chairman in 1974 posts in the US, UK and Canada.
He was appointed an executive director of Investor AB and The Royal Bank and retired in 2004.
He is a non-executive director of executive director in 1991 and group chief executive in of Scotland Group plc.
Anheuser-Busch, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, SBC 1995.
He is a non-executive director of Intel Corporation Chairman of the chairmans and nomination committees Communications and IBM.
He was knighted in 1998 and made Member of the chairmans and remuneration committees a life peer in 2001.
Sir Ian Prosser, Deputy Chairman Sir Ian 61 joined BPs board in 1997 and was appointed Sir T om McKillop Dr D C Allen, Group Chief of Staff non-executive deputy chairman in 1999.
He retired Sir Tom McKillop 61 joined BPs board in July 2004.
David Allen 50 joined BP in 1978 and subsequently as chairman of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC, Sir Tom was appointed chief executive of AstraZeneca undertook a number of corporate and exploration and previously Bass PLC, in 2003.
He was a non-executive PLC after the merger of Astra AB and Zeneca Group PLC production roles in London and New York.
He moved director of The Boots Company from 1984 to 1996, in 1999.
He was a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB to BPs corporate planning function in 1986, becoming of Lloyds Bank PLC from 1988 to 1995 and of Lloyds Group PLC until 2004 and is chairman of the British group vice president in 1999.
He was appointed an TSB Group PLC from 1995 to 1999.
executive vice president and group chief of staff in appointed a non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline Member of the chairmans and remuneration committees 2000 and an executive director of BP in 2003. and in 2004 he was appointed a non-executive director of Sara Lee Corporation.
Dr W E Massey I C Conn, Group Executive Officer, Member of the chairmans, nomination and remuneration Walter Massey 66 joined BPs board in 1998, having Strategic Resources committees and chairman of the audit committee previously been a director of Amoco.
He is president of Iain Conn 42 joined BP in 1986.
Following a Morehouse College, a non-executive director of Motorola, variety of roles in oil trading, refining, commercial J H Bryan Bank of America and McDonalds Corporation and a marketing, exploration and production, in 2000 he John Bryan 68 joined BPs board in 1998, having member of President Bushs Council of Advisors on became group vice president of BPs refining and previously been a director of Amoco.
He serves on Science and Technology.
From 2002 to 2004, he was chief the boards of General Motors Corporation and Goldman Member of the chairmans and nomination committees executive of petrochemicals.
He was appointed group Sachs.
He retired as chairman of Sara Lee Corporation in and chairman of the ethics and environment assurance executive officer with a range of regional and functional 2001.
He is chairman of Millennium Park Inc. in Chicago.
committee responsibilities and an executive director in July 2004.
Member of the chairmans, remuneration and audit He was appointed to the board of Rolls-Royce Group committees plc in January 2005.
H M P Miles, OBE Michael Miles 68 joined BPs board in 1994.
In 1988, he became an executive director of John Swire & Sons Ltd. Dr B E Grote, Chief Financial Officer A Burgmans He was chairman of Swire Pacific between 1984 and Byron Grote 56 joined BP in 1987 following the Antony Burgmans 58 joined BPs board in 2004.
He is chairman of Schroders plc, non-executive acquisition of The Standard Oil Company of Ohio, appointed to the board of Unilever in 1991.
In 1999, he chairman of Johnson Matthey Plc and a director of BP where he had worked since 1979.
He became group became chairman of Unilever NV and vice chairman of Pension Trustees Ltd. treasurer in 1992 and in 1994 regional chief executive Unilever PLC.
He is also a member of the supervisory Member of the chairmans, audit and ethics and in Latin America.
In 1999, he was appointed an executive board of ABN AMRO Bank NV.
environment assurance committees vice president of exploration and production, and chief Member of the chairmans and ethics and environment executive of chemicals in 2000.
He was appointed an assurance committees executive director of BP in 2000 and chief financial Sir Robin Nicholson, FREng, FRS officer in 2002.
Sir Robin 70 joined BPs board in 1987.
He represents E B Davis, Jr the board on the BP technology advisory council.
In 1976, Erroll B Davis, Jr 60 joined BPs board in 1998, having he became managing director of Inco Europe Limited.
Dr A B Hayward, Chief Executive, previously been a director of Amoco.
He is chairman and He was chief scientific adviser in the Cabinet Office chief executive officer of Alliant Energy, a member of the Exploration and Production from 1981 to 1985.
Between 1986 and 1996, he was advisory board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago Tony Hayward 47 joined BP in 1982.
He became an executive director of Pilkington.
He is a non-executive and a non-executive director of PPG Industries, Union a director of exploration and production in 1997, the director of Rolls-Royce Group plc.
Pacific Corporation and the US Olympic Committee.
segment in which he had previously held a series of Member of the chairmans and nomination committees Member of the chairmans, audit and remuneration roles.
In 2000, he was made group treasurer and an and chairman of the remuneration committee committees executive vice president in 2002.
He was appointed chief operating officer for exploration and production in M H Wilson 2002 and an executive director of BP in 2003.
He is a D J Flint Michael Wilson 67 joined BPs board in 1998, having non-executive director of Corus Group.
Douglas Flint 49 joined BPs board in January 2005. previously been a director of Amoco.
He was a member He trained as a chartered accountant and became a of the Canadian Parliament from 1979 to 1983 and held partner at KPMG in 1988.
In 1995, he was appointed J A Manzoni, Chief Executive, various ministerial posts, including Finance, Industry, group finance director of HSBC Holdings plc.
He is Refining and Marketing Science, Technology, and International Trade.
He is chairman of the Financial Reporting Councils review John Manzoni 45 joined BP in 1983.
He became group chairman of UBS Canada and a non-executive director of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Between vice president for European marketing in 1999 and BP of Manufacturers Life Insurance Company.
He is an 2001 and 2004, he served on the Accounting Standards regional president for the eastern US in 2000.
In 2001, Officer of the Order of Canada.
Board and the advisory council of the International he became an executive vice president and chief Member of the chairmans, audit and ethics and Accounting Standards Board.
executive for gas and power.
He was appointed chief environment assurance committees executive of refining and marketing in 2002 and an executive director of BP in 2003.
He is a non-executive Dr D S Julius, CBE Changes to the board director of SABMiller plc.
DeAnne Julius 55 joined BPs board in 2001.
She began Floris Maljers retired on 15 April 2004.
On 1 July 2004, her career as a project economist with the World Bank Dick Olver retired, Iain Conn was appointed an executive in Washington.
From 1986 until 1997, she held a director and Sir Tom McKillop was appointed a nonsuccession of posts, including chief economist at British executive director.
Douglas Flint was appointed a nonAirways and Royal Dutch Shell Group.
From 1997 to executive director on 1 January 2005.
2001, she was a full-time member of the Monetary Policy Committee of the Bank of England.
She is chairman of the Royal Institute of International Affairs and a nonCompany secretary executive director of Lloyds TSB Group PLC, Serco and David Jackson 52 was appointed company secretary Roche Holdings SA.
A solicitor, he is a member of the Listing Member of the chairmans and remuneration committees Authorities Advisory Committee and a director of and chairman elect of the remuneration committee Business in the Community.
