Investing through JPMorgan Fleming JPMorgan Fleming operate a range of savings products which enable investors to purchase shares in its range of investment trusts as follows: Share Plan Personal Equity Plan PEP The Investment Trust Share Plan is a low-cost Although no new subscriptions can be made to a savings plan allowing investments in any of the PEP, existing plans from other managers can be JPMorgan Fleming managed investment trusts, as transferred into the Investment Trust PEP.
The minimum investment is 50 annual management charge is a flat fee of 25 plus per month or a lump sum of 500.
transaction charge plus 0.5% Government stamp duty on all purchases, with a minimum charge of Pension Account 1 and a maximum charge of 50 for each The Investment Trust Pension Account is simple, transaction in each trust.
There is no annual account charge and only a 0.3% dealing charge on Individual Savings Account ISA purchases 0.5% Government stamp duty is also All of the JPMorgan Fleming managed investment payable, excluding the Cash Fund.
There are five trusts are available through either a mini or maxi investment choices: JPMorgan Fleming Elect stocks and shares component ISA.
Under current Managed Growth and Managed Income share legislation, investments grow free of income and classes, JPMorgan Fleming Claverhouse, JPMorgan capital gains tax.
The minimum investment is 100 Fleming Overseas and the Cash Fund.
per month per trust or a lump sum of 1,000 per Under current regulations, tax relief is available on trust, subject to the overall annual allowances.
all contributions and investments grow free of capital gains tax.
The minimum investment is 100 gross per month or 1,000 gross lump sum.
It also allows you to stop, start, increase and decrease contributions at any time.
To find out more about Fleming Mercantile and how to invest, visit www.
com its 42 Fleming Mercantile The investment trust range managed by JPMorgan Fleming JPMorgan Fleming American Capital growth from North American investments JPMorgan Fleming Asian Capital growth from Asian investments, excluding Japan JPMorgan Fleming Chinese Capital growth from Greater China investments JPMorgan Fleming Claverhouse Capital and income growth from UK investments JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Capital growth from Continental European investments JPMorgan Fleming Elect Managed Growth Long-term capital growth from investing in a range of investment trusts and open-ended funds managed principally by JPMorgan Fleming.
Managed Income Growth of income with potential for long-term capital growth by investing in equities, higher yielding shares of investment trusts and fixed income securities.
Managed Cash Preservation of capital with a yield based on shortterm interest rates by investing in a range of liquidity funds.
Shareholders can convert between the above share classes twice a year without liability to UK Capital Gains Tax under current UK tax laws.
JPMorgan Fleming Emerging Markets Capital growth from emerging markets worldwide JPMorgan Fleming European Fledgeling Capital growth from smaller Continental European companies JPMorgan Fleming Income & Capital Income and capital growth from UK investments through a split-capital structure JPMorgan Fleming Income & Growth Income and capital growth from higher-yielding investments through a split-capital structure JPMorgan Fleming Indian Capital growth from investment in India JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Capital growth from Japanese investments JPMorgan Capital growth through investment in small and medium-sized Fleming Japanese Smaller Companies Japanese companies Fleming Mercantile Capital growth from a portfolio of medium and smaller UK companies JPMorgan Fleming Mid Cap Capital growth from medium-sized UK companies JPMorgan Fleming Overseas Capital growth from overseas markets JPMorgan Fleming Russian Securities Capital growth from Russian securities JPMorgan Fleming Smaller Companies Capital and income growth from UK smaller companies JPMorgan Fleming US Discovery Capital growth from US micro cap companies JPMorgan Fleming Worldwide Income High income with capital growth through a split-capital structure from a portfolio of equities and bonds with international exposure Please remember that the value of shares and the income from them can fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the full amount invested.
Past performance is not necessarily a guide to the future.
For trusts investing in emerging markets the risk to your capital may be greater.
Exchange rate changes may cause the value of overseas investments to rise or fall.
Unquoted investments may be illiquid and difficult to value and may be more volatile.
Issued by J. P. Morgan Fleming Marketing Limited, which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority, and which sells investment, life assurance and pension products offered by the JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management marketing group.
Registered office 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF Fleming Mercantile 43 Designed by Kino Design Partnership.
Printed in England by Henry Good & Son Limited, Basildon, Essex JPMorgan Fleming Brochureline Freephone 0800 40 30 30 8.30 am to 6.00 pm Monday to Friday Please use this service to order ISA, PEP transfer, Pension Account or Share Plan literature and or annual reports of the JPMorgan Fleming managed investment trusts.
JPMorgan Fleming Helpline Freephone 0500 500 324 or 020 7742 9974 8.30 am to 6.00 pm Monday to Friday Please use this service if you have any general queries about the range of JPMorgan Fleming managed investment trusts and products, including investment performance.
JPMorgan Fleming Pension Helpline Freephone 0800 413 176 or 01722 414 888 9.00 am to 5.00 pm Monday to Friday Please use this service if you have any queries relating to the Pension Account or require a personal illustration.
