Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT eighteenth Annual General Meeting of The i the maximum number of Shares hereby Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc will be authorised to be purchased shall be held at 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF at 20,360,413 or if less, that number of 3.00 p. m. on Thursday 3rd June 2004 for the shares which is equal to 14.99% of the following purposes.
Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report, Resolution: the Annual Accounts and the Auditors ii the minimum price which may be paid Report for the year ended 31st January for a Share shall be 25p: 2004. iii the maximum price which may be paid 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration for a Share shall be an amount equal to Report for the year ended 31st January 105 per cent of the average of the 2004. middle market quotations for a Share 3 To re-elect Dr SG Nairn a Director of the taken from and calculated by reference Company.
to the London Stock Exchange Daily 4 To re-elect Mr IH Leslie Melville a Director of Official List for the five business days the Company.
immediately preceding the day on 5 To re-elect Mr NW Berry a Director of the which the Share is purchased: Company.
iv any purchase of Shares will be made in 6 To re-appoint  LLP the market for cash at prices below the as auditors to the Company and to prevailing net asset value per Share as authorise the Directors to determine their determined by the Directors : remuneration.
v the authority hereby conferred shall Special Business: expire at the earlier of 2nd December To consider the following resolutions which 2005 or at the conclusion of the will be proposed as special resolutions: Companys Annual General Meeting in Authority to repurchase the Companys 2005 unless the authority is renewed shares prior to such time: and 7 THAT vi the Company may make a contract to the Company be generally and subject as purchase Shares under the authority hereinafter appears unconditionally hereby conferred prior to the expiry of authorised in accordance with Section 166 of such authority and may make a the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make purchase of Shares pursuant to any such market purchases within the meaning of contract notwithstanding such expiry.
Section 163 of the Act of its issued Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company.
Fleming Mercantile 25 Notice of Meeting continued Notes Authority to issue shares for cash 8 THAT 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting is entitled to appoint one or i the Directors be generally and more proxies to attend and on a poll vote unconditionally authorised pursuant to instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member and in accordance with section 80 of of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy the Companies Act 1985 to exercise for does not prevent a member from attending and the period ending on 2nd June 2009 all voting if he so wishes.
the powers of the Company to allot 2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, relevant securities up to an aggregate must be lodged at the Companys Registrar not nominal amount of 1,697,833: less than 48 hours before the time of the ii pursuant to and during the period of meeting.
the authority referred to in paragraph 3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the i above the Directors be empowered determination by the Company of the number to allot equity securities up to an of votes they may cast, members must be aggregate nominal amount of entered on the Companys register of members 1,697,833 as if section 89 1 of the at 3pm on Tuesday 1st June the specified said Act did not apply to any such time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not allotment: more than 48 hours after the specified time iii by such authority and power the applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining Directors may during such period make the entitlement of members to attend and vote offers or agreements which would or and for the purpose of determining the might require allotments after the expiry number of votes they may cast at the of such period: and adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is iv for the purposes of this resolution, adjourned for a longer period then, to be so words and expressions defined in or for entitled, members must be entered on the the purposes of Part IV of the said Act Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the shall bear the same meanings in this adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives resolution.
notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time 9 THAT subject to the consent of the Registrar specified in that notice.
of Companies, the name of the Company be 4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to changed to JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile ordinary shareholders, with guests only by Investment Trust plc.
By order of the Board J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 27th April 2004 26 Fleming Mercantile
