Executive Management Friends Provident plc Friends Provident Life and F&C Asset Management plc Pensions Limited Incorporated in England and Wales Incorporated in Scotland Registered no.
4113107 Incorporated in England and Wales Registered no.
73508 Listed on the London Stock Exchange Registered no.
4096141 Listed on the London Stock Exchange Member of the Association Executive Directors Executive Directors of British Insurers Keith Satchell, BSc, FIA Howard Carter, BA, MA Group Chief Executive Executive Directors Chief Executive Keith Satchell, BSc, FIA Howard Carter, BA, MA Alain Grisay, LLM, MA Executive Chairman Chief Executive, F&C Asset Management plc Deputy Chief Executive Philip Moore, TD, MA, FIA Ben Gunn, MA, FCII Ian Paterson Brown, CA, MSI, ACIS Finance Director Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited Ben Gunn, MA, FCII Management Chief Executive Philip Moore, TD, MA, FIA Nick Criticos, FIA, BA, Bus.
Sc Group Finance Director Rocco Sepe, BSc, FIA Head of UK Retail and Investment Trusts Managing Director International Brian Sweetland, LLB, Solicitor, ACol Laurence Llewellyn, BSc Hons, FCMA, Executive Director Simon Clamp, BA MBA Managing Director UK Sales and Marketing Head of European Retail Group Management Actuarial Services Jane Stevens, BSc, FIA Tony Broccardo, MA Brian Harrison, MA, FIA Managing Director Operations Chief Investment officer Compliance & Business Assurance Mike Hampton, MA, FPMI Patrick Johns, B. Eng Dawn Reid, LLB, FCol Director of Business Services Head of UK, Ireland and US Institutional Business Corporate Development Graham Harvey, FCCA, MBA Vitor Ferreira, BAcc, CA SA Director of Marketing Fernando Ribeiro, B. Econ, MBA Head of Alternative Investments Finance Andy Jackson, BSc, FIA Conrad Donaldson, BSc, ARCS, FIA Director of Information Technology Helene Williamson, BA, MA, MBA Head of Fixed Income Group Communications Jamie McIver Nick Boakes, MA Director of Sales Peter Cole, MA Head of Human Resources Group Taxation Paul Tunnicliffe, MSc Mgmt Mike Chadwick, ACA, ATII Director of International W. Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Company Secretary Strategic Projects Lombard International Stuart Hastings, BSc Assurance S. A.
Group Risk David Steinegger James Ward, MA Chief Executive Group Secretary Gordon Ellis, MA, APMI, Solicitor 116 116 Friends Provident Friends Provident Shareholder Information A year of achievement Shareholder enquiries To buy and sell shares The Friends Provident Group is organised around a life You should contact the Registrar if you: By post: and pensions business and an asset management Lloyds TSB Registrars have any questions regarding your shareholding business.
Both were developed further throughout 2004, The Causeway Worthing have any questions regarding your securing greater scale and broader scope for the Group: BN99 6DA dividend payments By telephone: have lost your Share Account Statement Lloyds TSB Registrars or share certicate Telephone: 0845 300 2946 have changed your name or address Monday to Friday 8am to 4.30pm Increasing our scale wish to transfer your shares into someone elses Please have your Account Number and bank The merger of ISIS and F&C nearly doubles the funds managed by the Group name or joint names account details to hand Registrar Extending our reach By internet: Lloyds TSB Registrars Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview Dealing Service Our acquisition of Lombard opens up the European market still further The Causeway www.
com shareholderservices Worthing BN99 6DA Please have your Account Number and bank Excelling in service account details to hand We are the only UK listed life and pensions company to hold Telephone: 0870 609 4534 Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm a FIVE STAR rating for service Latest share price information Website: www.
com shareprice Winning with technology Dividend dates Our online e-commerce facilities won seven awards in 2004 Shares go ex dividend 6 April 2005 Record date 8 April 2005 Attracting more customers Final dividend paid 31 May 2005 New life and pensions business in 2004 hit a record level Establishing new distribution Annual General Meeting 26 May 2005 Selected by many distributors for their preferred provider panels Raising new capital Successfully raised 380m new capital through an innovative securitisation to support our ambitions for further growth Maintaining ethical heritage Through our Stewardship range, we have more money invested in retail ethical funds than any other company Completed in January 2005 2004 Financial Adviser Practiv Service Awards Cautionary statement Certain statements contained in this document constitute forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Friends Provident plc, its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings, from time to time, or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others, adverse changes to laws or Featured on the front cover are Katy Macleod, Deven Beeharilal regulations: risks in respect of taxation: unforeseen liabilities from product reviews: asset shortfalls against product liabilities: and Claire Bouldin who work in our Central London Ofce changes in the general economic environment: levels and trends in mortality and morbidity: restrictions on access to product delivering Five Star service to IFAs.
distribution channels: increased competition: and the ability to attract and retain personnel.
These forward-looking statements are made only as at the date of this document and, save where required in order to comply with the Listing Rules, there is no obligation on Friends Provident plc to update such forward-looking statements.
Published by Black Sun Plc Printed by Wace Friends Provident plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Friends Provident plc Pixham End, Dorking, Surrey, England RH4 1QA Tel 0870 608 3678 Greater scale, broader scope Friends Provident plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004 www.
com 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders The Friends Provident Foundation has been established to help meet some of the serious social problems facing the UK today.
Danielle Walker pictured is Director of the Foundation and spoke at the launch of the Foundations new book The Right Use of Money in July 2004.
Register online for your chance to win a Sony Flat Screen Television.
YOUR CHANCE TO WIN THIS SONY FLAT SCREEN TV www.
com Friends Provident a new company with over 170 years of experience Although Friends Provident plc was listed on the London The Friends Provident Group is structured around two Stock Exchange only in 2001, the business dates back businesses.
The life and pensions business is one of to 1832, when it was established to alleviate the hardship the top ten in the UK and has a growing international of families facing misfortune.
The asset management business trades your company is one of the top 100 UK listed companies under the name of F&C and is one of the five largest and continues to grow year by year.
In 2004, we paid UK asset management companies as well as having out over 3 billion to our customers.
On these pages we outline how both businesses have developed over 2004, increasing both the scale and scope of the Friends Provident Group.
We are grateful to you, our shareholders, for your continued trust and support.
David Newbigging Chairman Keith Satchell Group Chief Executive 2 The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders companies they recommend.
These are known Financial Highlights Financial Highlights Life and pensions as distribution agreements and we have been able to announce further such agreements this Record sales in 2004 and new year, and anticipate more will follow.
business profits increase again New business in 2004 hit a new record Beyond the UK, our International arm has level of 434 million.
The highest growth over 3 3.. 1 1bn bn entered into similar distribution arrangements 2004 was in new investment business, which Total gross premiums 2003: 3.2bn for certain products.
All of these distribution increased by 13%, followed by protection agreements are important as they will help to business, up by 11%.
Our biggest market secure future income for the Friends Provident remains group pensions.
We will continue to work hard to three product areas are where our focus has demonstrate to those organisations providing been over recent years.
434m 434m financial advice why they can recommend Life and pensions new business Friends Provident with confidence.
You can see from the chart below that new APE 2003: 429m business has increased every year since Friends Provident was listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2001.
2004 434 Lombard International Assurance 8 83 3m m 2003 429 SA joins the Friends Provident Group, Contribution to profits from 2002 377 signicantly expanding our international new business 2003: 80m cross-border operations 2001 343 In January this year we completed the Total New Business: APE m purchase of Lombard International Assurance SA, a pan-European life assurance company More importantly, the profits earned on our operating out of Luxembourg.
Lombard new business have increased for the third 344m 344m specialises in providing wealth management consecutive year, up 4% over 2003, 26% Operating profit on achieved and estate planning solutions to very high net over 2002 and 54% greater than 2001. worth clients.
It operates primarily within the profit basis 2003: 266m borders of Europe but also extends further Our innovative systems are aeld, including Asia and Mexico.
voted the best time and again We have developed leading-edge systems This new company complements the so that transacting life and pensions business international company we purchased from 317m 317m is simple, both for financial advisers and for Royal & SunAlliance in 2002, based in the Operating profit on modied customers.
In 2004, more than half of all Isle of Man.
new business was transacted online using statutory solvency basis our internet-based systems, which attracted 2003: 260m no fewer than seven independent awards in the year, including being voted Overall E-Commerce Company of the Year in the inuential Financial Adviser Practiv Service Awards 2004.
1 12 25 5bn bn Our good service and systems are helping Funds under management us secure important distribution agreements 2003: 63bn The rules that regulate how financial products are sold in the UK have changed.
As a result, some of the organisations that provide financial advice are choosing to recommend the products of only one life and pensions company 3.2bn known as a single-tie or of a select few 3.2bn known as a multi-tie.
We are delighted that Shareholders funds plus market during 2004, a number of these rms, including value of F&C at 31 12 04 Milleld Group, THINC Destiny, St Jamess 2003: 2.8bn Place, Bankhall, Sesame and Lighthouse, selected Friends Provident as one of the 7 7.55.
55p p Dividend per share 2003: 7.4p Being endorsed by so many Financial Advisers is sending a real buzz New business is based on the industry standard around our organisation.
Annual Premium Equivalent basis, which is 100% regular premiums 10% single premiums Stated before amortisation of goodwill, operating Chai Beh exceptional items and tax Finance On an achieved profits basis The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders 3 We anticipate that, from 2005 onwards, more Why the merger makes sense Asset management than one third of our total new business will be Put simply, these two companies can achieve international cross-border business.
This makes more together than they could apart, by pooling us one of the leading players in that market, their experiences of operating in different which has greater opportunities for profitable regions, specialising in different products and growth than can be generally found in the UK.
marketing those products in different ways.
Merger promotes Friends Providents This makes the business less reliant on any one asset management business up to the Lombard will continue to trade under that region or type of product and will accelerate premier league name, which is a well-established and the potential for growing the business, In July 2004 we announced the merger of our respected name in that specialist market.
Also we now have asset management business then called ISIS a stronger investment team, working for the with F&C.
This merger was completed in good of our customers.
October, making the enlarged company one of the leading asset management businesses in the UK and with significant business in Continental Europe.
The way we are reaching The enlarged company will trade under the F&C out across Europe is The Five Star award for service name, which is recognised throughout Europe, is achieved in 2004 really very exciting.
whereas the ISIS name was well known only Friends Provident is recognised as a provider in the UK.
Friends Provident holds a 51% of Five Star service the highest award in controlling interest in F&C.
Steve Young the 2004 Financial Adviser Practiv Service International Operations Awards, based on the views of more than Remarkable growth 2,000 Independent Financial Advisers.
A Five At the end of 2001 the year Friends Provident Star ranking represents excellent service and was listed on the London Stock Exchange Friends Provident is the only listed Life our asset management company managed less When two businesses are brought together, Assurance company with a Five Star ranking than 35 billion.
At the end of 2004, this had there are inevitably going to be areas of in this annual survey, which is the largest of risen to 125 billion, which is remarkable overlap, and we estimate that, by the first half its kind.
In our industry, where products can growth over just three years and meets the of 2006, some 33 million each year can be be so similar, it is the service that backs them strategic objective that was set for this side saved in operating expenses by addressing which distinguishes one company from another, of our business.
which is why this award is so significant.
We rmly believe that this merger strengthens We are proud of the service we give and we 2004 125 the Friends Provident Group and will be good wholeheartedly support Treating Customers 2003 63 for our shareholders as the benets of the Fairly an initiative of the Financial Services 2002 60 Authority to ensure fairness to customers is merger begin to ow through, once the at the centre of decision-making.
integration of the two companies is completed.
2001 34 Funds under management bn 380 million of new capital raised Returns to our shareholders to help finance continued growth Companies that are getting bigger, like Friends Successfully increasing your Provident, need capital to keep on growing dividend every year year after year.
In December we successfully Your Board is recommending a final dividend for raised 380 million, and because there was 2004 of 5.0 pence per share.
When combined a strong demand to invest in us, we were able with the interim dividend of 2.55 pence per to raise this money very cost effectively.
These share, paid to shareholders last November, the financial transactions are very complex but, total dividend for 2004 will amount to 7.55 pence in simple terms, it is like borrowing money per share.
The companys success has enabled and paying interest to those who have lent it us to increase your dividend every year.
Meanwhile we use the loan to build our business, making sure it earns the Friends Provident shares rise 17% company more value than we have to The value of your Friends Provident shares pay out in interest.
increased 17% over 2004, rising from 132 pence at the beginning of the year to 154 pence at the end of 2004.
2004 7.55 2003 7.40 Weve been focusing on 2002 7.25 giving great customer 2001 7.00 Dividends pence per share service so getting Annualised the Five Star award was brilliant news.
Dennis Aguma Customer Services 4 The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders Our Corporate Our Corporate Responsibility Responsibility Friends Provident Foundation helps to tackle financial exclusion In November 2004, the Friends Provident Foundation made one Working for a of its first grants to Centrepoint, a large charity working with homeless and disadvantaged young people in the UK.
The grant company that will enable Centrepoint to undertake research to understand cares about what it is like to organise financial matters from the perspective of homeless young people.
The research will identify the barriers others makes they face and help Centrepoint identify a strategy for overcoming a big difference these barriers.
The work will also result in the development of an accredited training programme which will be shared with other to me.
Priya Madhu International Operations 20 years of Stewardship In 2004 we celebrated the 20th anniversary of our groundbreaking ethical Stewardship fund, the first of its kind and still market leading, with 1.8 billion of retail ethical funds.
Twice each year we publish an online Principles newsletter, which covers a range of topical issues about ethical investment and the Stewardship funds if you want an email alert when each new edition is available, register at www.
com csi Friends Provident becomes a member of Dow Jones Sustainability World Index Following a lengthy assessment by Swiss-based company SAM Research, Friends Provident was selected as a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index.
This Index contains the top 10% of companies across 34 countries and 60 industries, assessed for their leading position in managing social and environmental matters.
IVCA award Friends Provident has been recognised for the way in which we report the management of social and environmental issues collectively known as Corporate Social Responsibility by winning the 2004 IVCA Clarion Award for printed materials.
The Clarion Awards aim to promote excellence in the communication of Corporate Social Responsibility and we were delighted to receive this recognition.
The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders 5 ThankYou!
THANK YOU to the 3,434 of you who are reading this online, having responded to our appeal in last years edition of FRIENDS to opt to receive electronic communications in future.
Your action saved more than 50,000 sheets of paper being used and printed in this years mailing packs.
If you use a PC, it only takes a couple of minutes for you to register for online shareholder services.
com signup and enter your account number shown on the enclosed voting card and your postcode and email address.
You will also be asked to set a password of your choosing.
Free Prize Draw YOUR CHANCE TO As a further thank you, every shareholder who has already registered to receive electronic communications, or who registers before the end of May 2005, will be entered into a prize draw for this Sony 26 Flat WIN Screen Television.
Prize draw rules can be accessed via THIS TV www.
com shareholderservices Much more than just electronic communications By registering for online shareholder services, you will receive an email alert each time we publish new shareholder documents on our website, rather than receiving them through the post.
You will also get free access to a range of online services designed to make life easier for you.
You will be able to: Check your shareholding in Amend your bank details Friends Provident and other Change your address UK quoted companies See the value of your shares Change your email address Submit your voting instructions Obtain tax vouchers online online for future shareholder meetings available only if your dividends are paid direct to your bank or See your dividend payment details building society There is no cost to you for these services.
They are free and are available to you on behalf of Friends Provident from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
com signup 6 The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders Buying or selling Buying or selling F Fr riends Pr iends Pro ovident shar vident shares es The following share dealing services are available to you from our Registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Internet Dealing online is real-time and you will be given a dealing price within seconds.
com We always try hard to bring shareholderservices You will need your postcode and shareholder account number.
information to your ngertips to save you time.
Telephone Call 0845 300 2946, Monday to Friday between 8.00am and 4.30pm to buy or sell over the phone.
Dealing is real-time Adele Buttereld and you will be given a dealing price within seconds.
IT Helpdesk Post A weekly postal dealing service is also available and a form, together with terms and conditions, can be obtained by calling the Shareholder Helpline on 0870 609 4534.
You can also download these documents from the download forms page on www.
com shareholderservices How much does it cost?
The current share dealing costs, terms and conditions are available on our website, www.
com shareholderservices or alternatively you can call the Shareholder Helpline on 0870 609 4534 Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm.
Details of these services do not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell shares.
Other services may be available.
Change of your shareholder reference number Please note that your unique shareholder reference number SRN changed in August 2004, following the appointment of Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Your SRN has been replaced with a new number called the account number.
You can nd your account number on the enclosed voting card.
You will always need to have your account number to hand when you call the Shareholder Helpline, or when buying or selling your Friends Provident shares.
The 2004 Annual Review for Shareholders 7 Ho How t w to o contact us contact us For questions about your dividend, your shareholding or changes to your Your dividend personal details, such as your address, please call the Shareholder Helpline on 0870 609 4534 Monday to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm.
Alternatively, email us at friends.
co. uk If calling from overseas, the number is per share 0044 121 415 7109 For questions about Friends Provident products and services, your usual Independent Financial Adviser will be The total recommended dividend for 2004 is 7.55 pence per share.
We able to give you expert advice on made an interim payment of 2.55 pence per share to shareholders last planning your nances and will November.
The final dividend of 5.0 pence per share assuming it is recommend the best product for you.
If you dont have an Independent approved at our Annual General Meeting on 26 May 2005 will be paid Financial Adviser, you can call us on to shareholders on 31 May 2005 for each share owned on 8 April 2005.
Introduction of consolidated tax vouchers Alternatively, email us at If your dividend is paid directly into your bank or building society tellmemore@friendsprovident.
co. uk account, you will receive only one tax voucher each year, rather or visit our website at than two.
The new consolidated tax voucher will be sent to you www.
com consumer each November and will take account of both dividend payments Any advice provided will relate only to Friends for your tax year dividend payments are normally made each May Provident pension and protection products.
Only factual information will be provided on all saving and November.
This will help you complete your tax return.
Lines are open 8am to be assured that this new arrangement does not affect the dividends 8pm Monday to Friday.
For your protection all you receive or the tax you pay.
If you prefer to continue to receive telephone calls will be recorded and or regularly monitored.
Please note that calls to this number are tax vouchers with each dividend payment, please call the Shareholder chargeable from mobiles.
Helpline on 0870 609 4534 or write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at The For questions about an existing Friends Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA.
Provident policy, call 0870 607 1352 or email customer.
co. uk Talk to FRIENDS Call now on: 0800000080 Products to help people Products to help people Our products, designed to help people plan for lifes Ross Williams Call Handler important milestones as well as unexpected events, include: life cover individual savings accounts ISAs critical illness cover bonds and collective income protection cover investment schemes unemployment cover pensions Products mentioned above are provided by members of the Friends Provident Marketing Group Friends Provident plc Registered and Head Ofce: Pixham End, Dorking, Surrey RH4 1QA.
Incorporated company limited by shares and registered in England number 4113107.
Published by Black Sun Plc 020 7736 0011.
