HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 4:47 pm Page 82 Accounting Policies Accounting Convention iii.
Goodwill The cost of claims notified but not settled and The consolidated accounts have been The excess of the fair value of purchase claims incurred but not reported at the balance prepared under the historical cost convention consideration over the fair value of net assets sheet date are estimated and provided for.
in compliance with the special provisions of at the date of acquisition of subsidiary Estimates are based upon an assessment of Part VII of the Companies Act 1985 applicable undertakings, associated undertakings the likely costs taking account of all known to banking groups modified by the revaluation including joint ventures and other businesses facts.
Where the outcome of outstanding cases of items held for trading purposes and the arising on acquisitions after 31 December 1997 is unclear, statistical techniques are used which revaluation of investment properties.
This goodwill is amortised by take into account the cost of recent similar consolidated accounts comply with Schedule equal instalments over its estimated useful life, claim settlements.
Claims equalisation 9 and the accounts of the Company comply not exceeding 20 years.
provisions are calculated in accordance with with Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985. relevant legislation and guidance.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to The consolidated accounts have been 1 January 1998 was written off to reserves Where the Group acts as intermediary, prepared in accordance with applicable in the year in which it arose and has not been commission income net of provisions for accounting standards and pronouncements reinstated, as permitted by Financial Reporting expected future policy cancellations and claims of the Urgent Issues Task Force UITF and Standard FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible handling is credited to fees and commissions at in accordance with applicable Statements Assets.
On the disposal of subsidiary the commencement of each insurance policy.
of Recommended Practice, being those issued undertakings and other businesses any related by the British Bankers Association and the Loans and Advances goodwill charged directly to reserves prior to Finance and Leasing Association.
Loans and advances are held at cost 1 January 1998 is reinstated and included in less provisions.
Accounting policies are reviewed regularly the calculation of the profit or loss on disposal.
Specific provisions are made for advances that to ensure they are the most appropriate Goodwill carried in the consolidated balance are recognised to be bad or doubtful.
Specific to the circumstances of the Group for the sheet is subject to impairment review when provisions are assessed on a case by case basis purposes of giving a true and fair view.
events or changes in circumstances indicate or, where this is not practical, as part of a portfolio that the carrying amount may not be Changes in Accounting Policies of similar advances using loan loss estimation recoverable and is written down by the amount The Groups accounting policies remain models.
A general provision, to cover advances of any impairment loss identified in the year.
that are latently bad or doubtful, but not yet Impairment charges, if any, are included within identified as such, is also maintained based on Basis of Consolidation goodwill amortisation.
Consolidation the historical loan loss experience relevant to the Long term Assurance Business particular market segment or product and include The consolidated accounts include the results The Group accounts for the income from adjustments for economic and business climate of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
its long term assurance business using the factors and management experience.
The accounts of all principal subsidiary embedded value basis.
The income represents undertakings are made up to 31 December.
Provisions made during the year are charged the change in the surplus attributable to The value of the long term assurance business to the profit and loss account, net of the Group, including minority interests, and attributable to shareholders and the assets and recoveries.
If the collection of interest is the net present value of the in-force business.
liabilities attributable to policyholders are considered doubtful, it is suspended and The value is a prudent estimate of the net presented separately on the consolidated excluded from interest income in the profit and present value of future cash flows attributable balance sheet from those of other businesses loss account.
Provisions and suspended to the shareholders, based on the market in order to reflect the different nature of the interest are written off to the extent that there value of the assets at the balance sheet date, is no longer any realistic prospect of recovery.
shareholders and policyholders interests therein.
using assumptions which reflect experience and a long term outlook for the economy ii.
Associated Undertakings Securitisation including Joint Ventures and then discounting at an appropriate risk Loans and advances to customers include The Groups share in associated undertakings discount rate.
advances that are subject to non-returnable is stated in the consolidated balance sheet at finance arrangements following securitisation General Insurance Business the Groups share of their net tangible assets of portfolios of mortgages and other advances.
The Group both underwrites and acts as plus attributable goodwill.
Joint ventures in The principal benefits of these advances were intermediary in the sale of general insurance which the Group has a long term interest and acquired by special purpose securitisation products.
For each general insurance policy shares control under a contractual agreement companies which fund their purchase primarily underwritten, premiums net of refunds are with other parties are accounted for using the through the issue of floating rate notes.
Where credited to net operating income over the gross equity method.
The attributable share of the relevant conditions set out in FRS 5, duration of the insurance policy.
Premiums results of other associated undertakings, Reporting the Substance of Transactions, are received relating to future accounting periods are met, the proceeds of these note issues are generally based on audited accounts, is deferred as accruals and deferred income and shown as a deduction from the securitised included in consolidated profit using the equity credited to net operating income when earned.
assets on the face of the balance sheet.
82 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 4:47 pm Page 83 Finance Leases, Instalment Credit and iii Debt securities sold subject to repurchase lease term if shorter.
Improvements to Operating Leases agreements are retained within the balance leasehold properties with unexpired lease Assets leased to customers which transfer sheet where the Group retains substantially terms of 50 years or less are stated at cost substantially all the risks and rewards of all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
and are depreciated in equal instalments over ownership to the customer are classified as Funds received under these arrangements the lesser of the remaining life of the lease or finance leases and, together with instalment are included within deposits by banks or eight years.
Premiums are amortised over the credit agreements, are recorded within loans customer accounts.
Conversely, debt period of the lease.
and advances to customers or loans and securities acquired under commitments to The cost of equipment, including fixtures and advances to banks.
The net investment in resell are not recognised in the balance fittings, vehicles and computer hardware, less finance leases and instalment credit sheet as debt securities where substantially estimated residual value, is written off in equal agreements represents total minimum all the risks and rewards do not pass to the instalments over the expected lives of the payments less gross earnings allocated to Group.
In this case, the purchase price is assets, generally between three and 15 years.
All other assets leased to included within loans and advances to Software development costs which lead to the banks or loans and advances to customers.
customers are classified as operating leases.
creation of a definable software asset, subject The difference between sale and repurchase These assets are separately disclosed in the to a fide minimis limit, are capitalised and prices for such transactions is reflected in balance sheet and are recorded at cost less depreciated over their expected lives, generally the profit and loss account over the lives of aggregate depreciation.
the transactions, within interest payable or Income from finance leases and instalment Provision is made for the diminution in value interest receivable as appropriate.
credit agreements is credited to interest of any tangible fixed asset where impairment receivable using an actuarial method to give a Equity Shares is identified.
The resulting net book value of the constant periodic return on the net cash Equity shares held for investment are stated at asset is written off over its remaining expected investment.
Operating lease rentals are cost less amounts written off.
Income from listed economic life.
Impairment charges are included recognised in other operating income on a equity shares is credited to other operating within operating expenses.
straight line basis with depreciation charged income on the ex-dividend date and from using an actuarial method to give a constant unlisted equity shares on an equivalent basis.
Taxation periodic return on the net cash investment.
Deferred tax is recognised, without Investment Properties discounting, in respect of all timing differences Unguaranteed residual values in respect of both Investment properties are accounted for in between the treatment of certain items for finance lease and operating lease assets are accordance with Statement of Standard taxation and accounting purposes which have reviewed regularly and any impairments Accounting Practice SSAP 19, Accounting for arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet identified are charged to operating expenses.
Investment Properties and are revalued annually date except as otherwise required by FRS 19, to open market value.
Changes in market value Debt Securities based on the corporation tax rate expected are reflected in the revaluation reserve except i Debt securities and other fixed interest when the timing differences reverse.
when an impairment is deemed to be permanent, securities held for trading are included at when the loss is charged directly against the Dated and Undated Loan Capital market value with gains or losses included in current years profit.
Dated and undated loan capital is included dealing profits.
The difference between the No depreciation is provided in respect of at the nominal value adjusted for premiums, cost and market value of securities held for investment properties.
This treatment is a discounts and expenses, all of which are trading is not disclosed as its determination departure from the requirements of the amortised evenly over the period to redemption is not practicable.
Companies Act 1985 which requires all or reset.
This does not result in a material ii Debt securities and other fixed interest properties to be depreciated.
However, the difference to the amount of amortisation had securities held for the longer term are Directors consider that these properties are not a level gross yield basis been used.
included at cost less amounts written off and held for consumption but for investment and adjusted for the amortisation of premiums or Interest Receivable and Payable that to depreciate them would not give a true discounts arising on purchase of investments Interest receivable and payable is recognised and fair view.
The amount of depreciation redeemable at fixed dates.
Such premiums in the profit and loss account on an accruals which might otherwise have been charged or discounts are taken to interest receivable basis.
If the collection of interest is considered cannot be separately identified or quantified as on a straight line basis over the period to doubtful, it is suspended and excluded from it is not practical to assess the estimated useful redemption.
The use of a straight line basis interest income in the profit and loss account.
does not result in a material difference to the amount of amortisation taken to interest Fees and Commissions Tangible Fixed Assets and Depreciation receivable compared to the amortisation had Arrangement fees and commissions receivable Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold and a level gross yield basis been used.
Gains or for the continuing servicing of loans and leasehold property, other than freehold losses on realisation are recorded in other advances are recognised on the basis of work investment properties, is stated at cost and operating income as they arise.
Those receivables in respect of bearing depreciated over 50 years or the length of the Annual Report and Accounts 2004 HBOS plc 83 HBOS Annual Report V8 9 3 05 4:47 pm Page 84 Accounting Policies continued risk, including premiums received by the Group Derivatives on high loan to value mortgages, are recognised Derivative financial instruments used for trading on a straight line basis over the expected period and non-trading purposes include interest rate of the advance or risk exposure.
Other fees are swaps, cross currency swaps, futures, options, recognised when receivable.
forward rate agreements and caps, floors and collars.
Fees and commissions payable to third parties are normally charged to the profit and loss i Trading derivatives, which include customer account as incurred.
For certain categories of driven and proprietary transactions and business, fees are amortised over a period not hedges thereof, are carried in the accounts exceeding four years.
at fair value with gains or losses included in dealing profits.
The fair value is based on Mortgage Incentives quoted market prices.
Where representative All costs associated with mortgage incentive market prices are not available, the fair value schemes are charged in full in the year in which is determined from appropriate financial the expense is incurred.
models using the actual or modelled cash flows.
Fair value adjustments are made, Retirement Benefits where appropriate, to cover credit risk, The cost of providing retirement pensions and liquidity risk and future administrative costs.
related benefits is charged against profits on a systematic basis over the employees service ii Non-trading derivatives, which are used lives in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting primarily as a risk management tool for for pension costs.
hedging interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk arising on on-balance sheet assets Foreign Currencies and liabilities, are accounted for on the same Assets, liabilities and profit and loss accounts basis as the underlying items being hedged.
are translated at the rates of exchange ruling In order to qualify as a hedge, a derivative on the balance sheet date or at the forward must effectively reduce any risk inherent exchange rate, as appropriate.
Exchange in the hedged item from potential movements differences arising on the translation of foreign in interest rates, exchange rates and market equity investments are taken to reserves and values.
Changes in the fair value of the are offset by corresponding differences arising derivative must be highly correlated with on the translation of related borrowing.
All changes in the fair value of the underlying other exchange differences are included hedged item over the life of the hedge in dealing profits.
Gains and losses on instruments used for hedging purposes are not recognised Collateral and Netting until the exposure that is being hedged is itself The Group nets loans, deposits and derivative recognised.
Where a hedge transaction is transactions where it enters into master terminated early, any profit or loss is spread agreements with counterparties to ensure that over the remainder of the original life of the if an event of default occurs all amounts hedge contract.
In other circumstances, where outstanding with these counterparties will be the underlying item subject to the hedge is settled on a net basis.
Where the master extinguished, the hedge transaction is agreements are collateralised, the collateral will measured at fair value and any profit or take the form of a transfer of title to the Group loss is recognised immediately.
in relation to the counterpartys exposure.
84 HBOS plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
