BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 26 26 British American Tobacco Directors Report and Accounts 2004 Accounting policies 1 Basis of accounting 6 Retirement benefit costs The Group accounts have been prepared under the historical The costs of providing pensions and retirement healthcare cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act benets, calculated by reference to actuarial valuations, are 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
charged against profits on a systematic basis with surpluses and deficits arising allocated over the expected average 2 Basis of consolidation remaining service lives of current employees.
Differences The consolidated financial information includes the accounts between the amounts charged in the profit and loss account of British American Tobacco and its subsidiary undertakings, and payments made to pension schemes are treated as assets together with the Groups share of the results of its associates or liabilities in the balance sheet.
Associates and joint ventures comprise investments in undertakings, which are not subsidiary The Group has continued to account for retirement benefit undertakings, where the Groups interest in the equity capital costs in accordance with SSAP24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
is long term and over whose operating and financial policies The transitional disclosures required by FRS17 Retirement the Group exercises a significant inuence.
They are accounted Benets are set out on page 57 note 24. for using the equity method.
7 Research and development revenue expenditure is charged The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the against profits as incurred.
period are included from the date of acquisition of a controlling 8 Taxation provided is that chargeable on the profits of the interest at which date, for the purposes of consolidation, the period, together with deferred taxation.
purchase consideration is allocated between the underlying net assets acquired, other than goodwill, on the basis of their Deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences fair value.
between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations.
The results of subsidiary undertakings which have been However, the Group does not discount deferred tax assets sold during the year are included up to the date of disposal.
The profit or loss on sale is calculated by reference to the net asset value at the date of disposal, adjusted for purchased 9 Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
goodwill previously written off to reserves on acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write off the cost of tangible xed assets over their useful lives.
Freehold 3 Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 has and long leasehold land and buildings are depreciated at been eliminated during the year of purchase against reserves.
rates between 2.5 per cent and 4 per cent per annum, and Goodwill on acquisitions from 1 January 1998 is capitalised plant, machinery and equipment at rates between 7 per cent and amortised over its useful economic life.
Adjustments to and 25 per cent per annum.
No depreciation is provided on provisional fair values of assets acquired in the preceding freehold land.
period are reected as adjustments to goodwill.
10 Other investments are stated at cost less any impairment 4 Foreign currencies provisions.
Turnover, profits and cash ows expressed in currencies other than sterling are translated to sterling at average rates 11 Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable of exchange in each year.
Assets and liabilities are translated value.
The method used in calculating cost, which includes at rates of exchange at the end of each year.
For high ination raw materials, direct labour and overheads where appropriate, countries, the translation from local currencies to sterling is average cost.
makes allowance for the impact of ination on the local 12 Leased assets currency results.
Assets held under finance leases are included under tangible The differences between retained profits of overseas subsidiary xed assets at their capital value and depreciated over their and associated undertakings translated at average and closing estimated useful lives.
Leasing payments consist of capital and rates of exchange are taken to reserves, as are differences finance charge elements and the finance element is charged arising on the retranslation to sterling using closing rates to the profit and loss account.
The annual payments under of exchange of overseas net assets at the beginning of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account.
the year, after taking into account related foreign currency 13 Geographical analyses are presented on the basis of borrowings.
Other exchange differences, including those five regions, which reect the principal segmentation of on remittances, are reected in profit.
5 Revenue represents turnover of subsidiary undertakings and Royalty income, less related expenditure, is included in the Groups share of associates turnover.
Group turnover the region in which the licensor is based.
comprises sales to external customers and includes duty, excise and other taxes.
BAT Report 001-027. qxd 18 3 05 17:52 Page 27 British American Tobacco 27 Directors Report and Accounts 2004 14 Financial instruments The Group utilises a number of differing derivative instruments as part of its interest rate and exchange rate risk management.
These instruments include interest rate swaps, swaptions, caps and collars and forward rate agreements as well as cross-currency swaps, tax equalisation swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
Interest rate risk management Interest differentials are recognised on an accruals basis and adjusted against interest payable.
Initial premiums and discounts are amortised over the lives of the instruments.
Where instruments are terminated early, gains and losses are amortised over their original lives if the underlying exposure remains in place or otherwise recognised immediately.
Exchange rate risk management Cross-currency swaps are revalued at the balance sheet date and utilised to adjust the book values of the related foreign currency borrowings.
Where forward foreign currency contracts are used to hedge existing assets and liabilities, the contract rates are used to value the related assets and liabilities.
Gains and losses arising on hedges of future transactions are not recognised until the transactions occur.
