HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Taxation of Shares and Dividends Information on the taxation consequences of the Taxation HSBC Holdings scrip dividends offered in lieu of the The following is a summary, under current law, of 2003 third interim dividend and the first, second and the principal UK tax considerations that are likely to third interim dividends for 2004 was set out in the be material to the ownership and disposition of Secretarys letters to shareholders of 30 March, shares.
The summary does not purport to be a 2 June, 1 September and 7 December 2004.
In each comprehensive description of all the tax case, the market value of the scrip dividend was not considerations that may be relevant to a holder of substantially different from the dividend forgone shares.
In particular, the summary deals principally and, accordingly, the price of HSBC Holdings with shareholders who are resident in the United US$0.50 ordinary shares the shares for UK tax Kingdom for UK tax purposes and only with holders purposes for the dividends was the cash dividend who hold the shares as investments and who are the foregone.
beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address the tax treatment of certain classes of holders such as Taxation of capital gains dealers in securities.
Holders and prospective The computation of the capital gains tax liability purchasers should consult their own advisers arising on disposals of shares in HSBC Holdings by regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shareholders subject to UK capital gains tax can be shares in light of their particular circumstances, complex, partly depending on whether, for example, including the effect of any national, state or local the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired laws.
in 1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, or acquired Taxation of dividends subsequent to 1991 in exchange for shares in other Currently no tax is withheld from dividends paid by companies.
However, dividends are paid with For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition an associated tax credit which is available for set-off cost for ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of by certain shareholders against any liability they subsequent rights and capitalisation issues.
Further may have to UK income tax.
Currently, the adjustments apply where an individual shareholder associated tax credit is equivalent to 10 per cent of has chosen to receive shares instead of cash the combined cash dividend and tax credit, i. e. onedividends, subject to scrip issues made since 6 April ninth of the cash dividend.
1998 being treated for tax as separate holdings.
Any For individual shareholders who are resident in capital gain arising on a disposal may also be the United Kingdom for taxation purposes and liable adjusted to take account of indexation allowance to UK income tax at the basic rate, no further UK and, in the case of individuals, taper relief.
Except income tax liability arises on the receipt of a for gains made by a company chargeable to UK dividend from HSBC Holdings.
Individual corporation tax, any such indexation allowance is shareholders who are liable to UK income tax at the calculated up to 5 April 1998 only.
higher rate on UK dividend income currently If in doubt, shareholders are recommended to 32.5 per cent are taxed on the combined amount of consult their professional advisers.
the dividend and the tax credit.
The tax credit is available for set-off against the higher rate liability, Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose leaving net higher rate tax to pay equal to 25 per cent domicile is determined to be the United States for of the cash dividend.
Individual UK resident the purposes of the United States-United Kingdom shareholders are not entitled to any tax credit Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and repayment, unless the dividend income arises in a gift taxes the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not Personal Equity Plan PEP or Individual Savings for such purposes a national of the United Kingdom Account ISA, and then only for a five-year period will not, provided any US Federal estate or gift tax to 5 April 2004. chargeable has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a Although non-UK-resident shareholders are lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain generally not entitled to any repayment of the tax cases where the shares or ADSs i are comprised in credit in respect of any UK dividend received, some a settlement unless, at the time of the settlement, the such shareholders may be so entitled under the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was provisions of a double taxation agreement between not a national of the United Kingdom, ii is part of their country of residence and the United Kingdom.
the business property of a UK permanent However, in most cases no amount of the tax credit establishment of an enterprise, or iii pertains to a is, in practice, repayable.
357 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Taxation of Shares and Dividends continued UK fixed base of an individual used for the currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as part performance of independent personal services.
In of an integrated investment including a straddle such cases, the Estate Tax Treaty generally provides comprised of a share or ADS and one or more other a credit against US Federal tax liability for the positions, and persons that own, directly or amount of any tax paid in the United Kingdom in a indirectly, 10 per cent or more of the voting stock of case where the shares or ADSs are subject to both HSBC Holdings.
This discussion is based on laws, UK inheritance tax and to US Federal estate or gift treaties, judicial decisions and regulatory tax.
interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change.
A new income tax Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax treaty the new Treaty between the United Kingdom and the United States entered into effect on Transfers of shares by a written instrument of 1 May 2003 with respect to withholding taxes on transfer generally will be subject to UK stamp duty dividends superseding the previous tax treaty the at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the consideration paid old Treaty.
Following entry into effect of the new for the transfer, and such stamp duty is generally Treaty, eligible US holders are no longer entitled to payable by the transferee.
claim a special foreign tax credit in respect of An agreement to transfer shares, or any interest dividends that was available under the terms of the therein, normally will give rise to a charge to stamp old Treaty, except for a limited period of time during duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the which such holders may have elected to apply the consideration.
However, provided an instrument of old Treaty in its entirety in preference to the new transfer of the shares is executed pursuant to the Treaty.
agreement and duly stamped before the date on Holders and prospective purchasers should which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, consult their own advisers regarding the tax under current UK Inland Revenue practice it will not consequences of an investment in shares or ADSs in be necessary to pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor light of their particular circumstances, including the to apply for such tax to be cancelled.
Stamp duty effect of any national, state or local laws.
reserve tax generally is payable by the transferee.
In general, the beneficial owner of a share or Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the ADS will be entitled to benefits under the new United Kingdoms paperless share transfer system, Treaty and, therefore, will be an eligible US holder are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5 if it is i an individual resident of the United States, per cent of the consideration.
In CREST a US corporation meeting ownership criteria transactions, the tax is calculated and payment made specified in the new Treaty or other entity meeting automatically.
Deposits of shares into CREST criteria specified in the new Treaty: and ii not also generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve resident in the United Kingdom for UK tax purposes.
tax, unless the transfer into CREST is itself for Special rules, including a limitation of benefits consideration.
The Treaty benefits discussed below generally are not available to US holders that Taxation US residents hold shares or ADSs in connection with the conduct of a business through a permanent establishment, or The following is a summary, under current law, of the performance of personal services through a fixed the principal UK tax and US Federal tax base, in the United Kingdom.
considerations that are likely to be material to the ownership and disposition of shares or ADSs by a Taxation of dividends holder that is a resident of the United States for the purposes of the income tax convention between the An eligible US holder must include cash dividends United States and the United Kingdom the paid on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on Treaty, and is fully eligible for benefits under the the date that such holder or the ADS depositary Treaty an eligible US holder.
The summary does receive them, translating dividends paid in UK not purport to be a comprehensive description of all pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a rate in effect on the date of receipt.
Subject to certain holder of shares or ADSs.
In particular, the summary exceptions for positions that are hedged or held for deals only with eligible US holders that hold shares less than 61 days, an individual eligible US holder or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the generally will be subject to US taxation at a tax treatment of holders that are subject to special maximum rate of 15 per cent in respect of dividends tax rules, such as banks, tax-exempt entities, received before 2009 if the dividends are qualified insurance companies, dealers in securities or dividends.
Dividends paid on the shares or ADSs 358 will be treated as qualified dividends if i HSBC outside the United Kingdom, and provided further Holdings was not, in the year prior to the year in that any such transfer or written agreement to which the dividend was paid and is not in the year in transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom.
No which the dividend is paid, a passive foreign stamp duty reserve tax will be payable on a transfer investment company PFIC, and ii for dividends of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS effected by the paid in the 2004 taxable year, HSBC Holdings was transfer of an ADR.
not a foreign personal holding company FPHC or On a transfer of shares from the Depository to a foreign investment company FIC with respect to registered holder of an ADS upon cancellation of the its 2003 or 2004 taxable year.
Based on the ADS, a fixed stamp duty of 5 per instrument of companys audited financial statements and relevant transfer will be payable by the registered holder of market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings the ADR cancelled.
believes that it was not treated as a PFIC, FPHC or FIC for US Federal income tax purposes with respect US backup withholding tax and information to its 2003 or 2004 taxable year.
In addition, based reporting on the companys audited financial statements and current expectations regarding the value and nature Distributions made on shares and proceeds from the of its assets, the sources and nature of its income, sale of shares or ADSs that are paid within the and relevant market data, HSBC Holdings does not United States, or through certain financial anticipate becoming a PFIC for its 2005 taxable intermediaries to US holders, are subject to year.
information reporting and may be subject to a US backup withholding tax unless, in general, the US Taxation of capital gains holder complies with certain certification procedures or is a corporation or other person exempt from such Gains realised by an eligible US holder on the sale or withholding.
Holders that are not US persons other disposition of shares or ADSs normally will generally are not subject to information reporting or not be subject to UK taxation unless at the time of backup withholding tax, but may be required to the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a comply with applicable certification procedures to trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom establish that they are not US persons in order to through a branch or agency or permanent avoid the application of such information reporting establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have requirements or backup withholding tax to payments been used, held or acquired for the purposes of such received within the United States or through certain trade, profession, vocation, branch or agency or financial intermediaries.
Such gains will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one year.
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual holder generally is subject to US tax at a maximum rate of 5 or 15 per cent.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax ADSs If shares are transferred into a clearance service or depository receipt arrangement which will include a transfer of shares to the Depository UK stamp duty and or stamp duty reserve tax will be payable.
The stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the transfer and is payable at the aggregate rate of 1.5 per cent.
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same transfer.
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times 359
