Directors Responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare financial In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: profit or loss of the Group for that period.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the financial statements of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom auditing standards for the year ended 30 June 2004, which comprise the Profit and Loss Account, issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, the Balance Sheets, the Cash Flow Statement, and the related notes 1 to 29.
These of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration described as having been subject therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the Report on to audit.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements Directors Remuneration that is described as having been subject to audit.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for of the Report on Directors Remuneration described as having been subject to audit this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Report As described in the statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Companys on Directors Remuneration described as having been subject to audit.
Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They Opinion are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the In our opinion: Annual Report including the Report on Directors Remuneration.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Report described as having been subject to audit in accordance with relevant Company and the Group as at 30 June 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
year then ended: and the financial statements and part of the Report on Directors Remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true described as having been subject to audit have been properly prepared in and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Report on accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Directors Remuneration described as having been subject to audit have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to Deloitte & Touche LLP you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not London received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions 3 August 2004 with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our Notes review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it i The maintenance and integrity of the British Sky Broadcasting Group plc website is the does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
We read the Directors Report and the other information contained in the Annual ii Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Report for the above year as described in the contents section including the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
unaudited part of the Report on Directors Remuneration and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 41
