Company Information Financial advisers Bankers Offices Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 20 Old Broad St. 50 Stratton Street 135 Bishopsgate London London London EC2N 1DP W1J 8LL EC2M 3UR England Stockbrokers Registered office Cazenove & Co. 20 Old Broad Street 38 Avenue Hoche 12 Tokenhouse Yard London 75008 London EC2N 1DP Paris EC2R 7AN France HSBC Bank PLC Auditors Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets 8 Canada Square Deloitte & Touche LLP London Chartered Accountants and 3603-3604 E14 5HQ Registered Auditors Edinburgh Tower London 15 Queens Rd Central Hong Kong Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 92 Paseo fide la Castellana 51 The Pavillions 28046 Bridgwater Road Madrid Bristol Spain BS99 7NH Mster Samuelsgatan 1 111 44 Stockholm Sweden 48 Intermediate Capital Group Directors Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Directors John Manser, CBE, DL, age 64, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
He was formerly Chairman of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited and currently is Deputy Chairman of Fitzhardinge plc and a non-executive director of Shaftesbury PLC and South African Breweries PLC.
Eric Licoys, age 65, was formerly Executive Directors Directeur Gnral of Vivendi Universal, the media and communications group, Tom Attwood, age 51, Managing having previously been President of the Director.
Prior to joining ICG in April venture capital arm of Lazard Frres in 1996, he was a director of James Capel France.
He is a past chairman of AFIC.
& Co where he worked for eight years.
Tom Bartlam, age 56, Managing Director, is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
Prior to founding ICG in 1989, he was a director of Charterhouse Bank, where he worked for fourteen years.
He is a non-executive director of Pantheon James Nelson, age 56, is a nonInternational Participations PLC.
executive partner in Graphite Capital, Chairman of PIFC Group Limited and a non-executive director of American Christophe Evain, age 41.
Prior to joining Opportunity Trust Plc and Henderson ICG in 1994, he was an assistant director Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc.
in the acquisition finance group of He is a past chairman of the BVCA.
Banque fide Gestion Prive in Paris.
He is currently based in the Hong Kong office.
Prior to joining ICG in 1997, he was an assistant director in Structured Finance at Socit Gnrale.
He is currently based in the Paris office.
Peter Stone, age 57, is a qualified solicitor.
He is a non-executive director of Alliance and Leicester PLC and DTZ Holdings Plc as well as a number of other businesses and was previously a Andrew Phillips, age 40.
Prior to joining director of Close Brothers Group plc.
ICG in 1989 at its formation he worked in the specialist finance group at Chemical Bank.
Prior to joining ICG in 1989 at its formation he worked at Chemical Bank.
Designed and produced by Best&Co.
London Management Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary Mezzanine Executives Martin Eriksson Magnus Hildingsson John Curtis Finance Executives Mark Crowther James Davis Graeme Delaney-Smith Mark Hallala Kim Rennie Tony Payne Carola Babcock High Yield and Leveraged Felix Hlzer Loan Executives Mark Brenke Max Mitchell Richard Hudson Rolf Nuijens Debra Anderson Luigi Bartone David Ford Sara Halbard Matthew Robinson Robin Jenner Katharine Belsham Claire Campbell Mike Anderson Designed and produced by Best&Co.
London Martin Conder Simon Morrell Piers Millar Vincent So Elena Gimeno fide Esteban Jose-Maria Vegas-Cordobes Herve Johnson Rosine Vitman Hadj Djemai Benoit Durteste Damien Scaillierez Intermediate Capital Group PLC Intermediate Capital www.
