Risk & Insurance Revenue m Operational Review Latin America 3.6 Canada 14.3 USA 28.0 Asia 29.7 Australia JLT Risk Solutions New Zealand 205.5 56.2 Risk & Insurance UK Ireland JLTs Risk & Insurance group provides insurance and reinsurance broking and 46.4 risk management services for clients worldwide across a broad range of business sectors.
Our broking operations encompass: London Market insurance and reinsurance.
Worldwide insurance and reinsurance services in North & South America, Asia, Australasia and Europe.
UK & Ireland corporate and specialist schemes and affinity businesses.
JLTs international reputation rests firmly on our commitment to work with clients as partners in their business and identify with their needs.
Over 3,800 people are employed worldwide in these markets and they have built the JLT reputation for professionalism, teamwork and integrity.
Our strategy of operating only in areas where we are, or can become, a market leader ensures that we are able both to attract the best people and to deliver the quality of service our clients demand.
In 2004 the company was voted, by risk managers in UK and Europe, European Commercial Broker of the Year at the European Risk Management Awards.
In 2004 JLT Risk & Insurance revenue grew by 10% to 383.7 million 13% at constant rates of exchange.
Trading profit was 87.3 million compared to a restated 94.4 million for 2003, which gave a trading margin of 23% compared to 27% in the prior year.
Profit before tax for the Risk & Insurance business segment was 90.0 million compared to a restated 104.2 million for 2003.
6 UK & Ireland Retail Insurance Broking Our Retail Insurance Broking business in the UK & Ireland had another impressive year, recording revenue of 46.4 million in 2004, 14% ahead of 2003.
Profit before tax of 11.0 million represented growth of 11% over 2003.
The trading margin has been maintained at 22%.
The business operates in two distinct areas: Our general corporate operation provides a comprehensive service to a wide variety of mid-sized companies delivered from our network of offices around the country.
Our specialist, schemes and affinity businesses target services across diverse markets, ranging from local government and social housing to the leisure industry and veterinary care.
During 2004 we continued to refine our geographical representation, closing offices in Huddersfield, Bracknell and Marlow and opening offices in Leeds and Maidenhead.
The acquisition of the Cork-based broker Cullinane & Twomey was completed in December 2004 and the merger of its operations with those of our existing Cork office will be implemented in the first quarter of 2005.
These moves reflect the marketplace in which we operate, which is very active and currently undergoing major structural changes.
A significant proportion of our income is derived from business placed on a broker commission basis.
The broad softening of premium rates in the second half of 2004 consequently depressed potential revenue.
It is our firm aim to continue the ongoing conversion of brokerage-paying business to payment of agreed fees in order to lessen the impact of fluctuating insurance premium rate levels.
The specialist schemes and affinity businesses performed exceptionally well in 2004.
They occupy attractive market positions and, in addition to their robust defensive characteristics, offer the prospect of faster growth.
We expect this growth to continue in 2005.
It is anticipated that the new FSA regulatory regime will generate more acquisition opportunities for us as smaller brokers become disenchanted with increased costs and regulatory demands.
Our UK & Ireland Insurance Broking business has a strong new business culture and, despite the soft conditions in the insurance market, we are confident that we will enjoy continued success in 2005.
7 Operational Review JLT Risk Solutions The year has been an eventful and often difficult one for many of the businesses in JLT Risk Solutions and there were marked variations in the fortunes of different markets during the year.
JLT Risk Solutions' revenue at 205.5 million was 1% ahead of 2003, or 4% at constant rates of exchange, while the trading margin was 23% compared to 32% in 2003.
Increased costs, including new hires, were not matched by an increase in revenue, as a result of a loss of reinsurance income, softening insurance markets and the impact of a weaker dollar.
Steps have been taken to improve performance and this process continues, although the benefits will not be apparent until 2006.
The construction, industry risks, risk finance and alternative risk transfer units performed well, notwithstanding challenging market conditions.
Solid growth was also achieved by our cargo and US casualty & healthcare units.
Our reinsurance businesses saw significantly reduced revenues, due to key clients retaining more risk, and this particularly impacted aviation and marine reinsurance.
The new aviation team, acquired at the end of 2003, has been successfully integrated and achieved most of the revenue goals for 2004, although the full benefits of the acquisition will be realised over the next two years.
Our significant energy and property teams and our operations in Bermuda won meaningful levels of new business but were adversely impacted by the rapidly softening market environment and increased competition from US markets.
Agnew Higgins Pickering & Company Limited, a London-based natural resource specialist, again produced good results.
8 In September 2004, Dominic Collins became Chairman and Mike Hammond was appointed Chief Executive of JLT Risk Solutions.
Since then we have streamlined the Company's structure to enhance our product and industry strengths and to ensure our sales and production capabilities are maximised as well as achieving greater operational efficiencies.
We have taken a number of initiatives and put in hand major structural changes to reposition JLT Risk Solutions for future growth.
Importantly, a substantial number of leading practitioners in the marketplace have joined us to strengthen our existing casualty, life sciences and power practises.
We remain committed to attracting individuals who will further strengthen our expertise both in London and elsewhere.
In Sweden we have formed a strong team focused on financial risks and we established a representative office in the new International Financial Centre in Dubai to capitalise on opportunities in the Middle East.
The development of our reinsurance business will also be a high priority during 2005 with a particular emphasis on strengthening our existing non-marine capabilities.
In January 2005, the Group formed a new and separate company, Lloyd & Partners Ltd.
This team, the majority of whom were recruited from JLT Risk Solutions, will concentrate on business emanating predominantly from third-party North American based producers as well as building on the significant book of business that already existed within JLT Risk Solutions.
9 Operational Review International JLTs International division includes retail, reinsurance and employee benefit broking businesses in Asia Pacific, Canada, Latin America and our Paris-based associate, SIACI.
Internationally the Group was subject to a general softening of premium rates across most classes of insurance and this is expected to continue throughout 2005.
Some businesses, however, have performed exceptionally well despite these challenges, notably our Australasian operations.
JLT Australasia JLT in Australia and New Zealand has had another excellent year.
Revenues grew by 15% in 2004 to 56.2 million.
Trading profit grew by 16% in 2004 to 15.6 million, with a trading margin of 28%, unchanged from 2003.
JLT Australasia operates in two main segments: Risk Services and Retail.
Risk Services provides a range of insurance, claims and risk management services.
We have a dominant position in the local government sector in Australia and have extended the claims and risk management services to the private sector.
Our Retail insurance business is further segmented into corporate, affinity and natural resources and construction.
We have seen particularly good growth from our Sydney-based professional and executive liability team which will be given a national focus in 2005.
Our premium funding business also performed well.
Our pipeline for 2005 is strong in all segments.
Specifically we expect good growth from workers compensation management, following recent legislation changes, and from construction and mining.
JLT Asia Asias revenues declined by 5% to 29.7 million 5% ahead at constant rates of exchange with a trading profit of 6.5 million, producing a trading margin of 22%, compared to 24% in 2003.
The softening insurance rates were particularly marked in certain territories, with dramatic reductions impacting revenues in Hong Kong and Taiwan.
However, both Singapore and Hong Kong achieved good new business wins during the year.
In 2005, JLT will be seeking to apply for a licence to operate in China where we see excellent opportunities to develop our business.
During 2004 new business leaders were appointed in Hong Kong, Indonesia, Thailand and Korea and we have continued to strengthen our specialist regional broking resources in claims management, marine cargo and captive consultancy.
New business growth so far in 2005 is robust with a number of major new accounts already won.
10 JLT Canada Canada increased revenue by 8% to 14.3 million and the trading margin was 17% compared to 18% in the prior year, reflecting further investment in our construction and corporate business in Calgary and Toronto.
During 2004 JLT Canada began the move from a geographic business base to a national business, segmented by specialty areas.
This realignment will continue in 2005.
Continued growth is expected in energy, construction, forestry and public sector.
JLT Latin America JLT completed its acquisition of businesses in Mexico, Colombia and Peru on 1st December, 2004, so the results for 2004 reflect only a minor contribution from these operations.
Added to our existing retail business in Brazil, this gives us a strong Latin American base.
Integration into JLT is proceeding well and we have begun to identify new business opportunities throughout the region.
The new retail businesses have a strong position in the public sector and our reinsurance businesses are strong in public sector, property and aviation.
New prospects in utilities, mining and construction are being worked on.
We are also working effectively with other areas of the Group to support new business development and increase penetration.
Continental Europe Our associate, SIACI, is a leading French broker with offices in Spain, Italy, Switzerland, Belgium and Poland.
The contribution to JLT in 2004 was 4.5 million, down 10% on the prior year, as a result of the full years effect of interest payable by SIACI following the restructure effected in 2003.
The underlying business continues to perform well.
In 2004, SIACI continued to win major accounts including Peugeot Citroen, Vivendi, SNPE and Degrmond, confirming their position as a major player in France.
11 Operational Review USA In the USA, our specialty retail insurance business Jardine Lloyd Thompson LLC formerly Capital Risk LLC has continued to make good progress in 2004.
Revenues grew from 4.2 million to 24.3 million and achieved a trading margin of 17%.
This growth partly reflects the acquisition at the end of 2003 of HCCs life, accident & health broking business and, in 2004, the acquisition of the wind energy business of Worldlink and the HLF Aviation business in Seattle and Washington DC.
In January 2005, we announced the change of name from Capital Risk LLC to Jardine Lloyd Thompson LLC to reflect its importance in JLTs development plans.
In February we announced the retirement with effect from 1st March, 2005 of John Molbeck, who had been Chief Executive for the past two years.
Ken Carter has assumed that position pending the appointment of a new CEO in the USA.
Our specialty business was expanded in 2004 to include Fortune 1000 companies, construction, private equity and banking, aviation and employee benefits in addition to our existing specialties of energy and marine, healthcare and professional liability.
The policy of recruiting recognised leaders continued, including significant appointments at the head of our construction and aviation divisions.
We anticipate a continued softening market in 2005, although we remain confident of achieving further growth through new business and strategic recruitment.
