Glossary of terms Services purchased by other operators under Directory Enquiries.
Access Network DQ Facilities ANF Condition 83 of BTs Licence.
The Detailed Valuation Methodology see also page DVM 127.
This sets out the methodology by which current Accounting Set out the framework within which the Current Cost cost valuations are obtained.
Documents Financial Statements are prepared see also page 127.
FRIACO Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination.
Annual Report The BTs Group Financial Statements for the year The excess of purchase consideration over the fair Goodwill ended 31 March.
These are available on the BT value of the net assets acquired.
Hybrid Adjustment Oftel has required BT exclude redundancy costs from Applicable rate of Rate of return on capital which is included in the the results of the Network Business.
This adjustment return calculation of costs of the Network Business.
is known as a Hybrid Adjustment.
ASB BT Apparatus Supply Business.
Baskets Baskets are collections of services not considered to Long Run Defined as the cost caused by the provision of a be competitive and for which the rates are subject to Incremental Cost defined increment of output given that costs can, if specific charge controls.
LRIC necessary, be varied and that some level of output is already produced see also page 127.
Mean capital Mean capital employed is defined as total assets less Corporate costs Where there is some corporate overhead expenditure employed current liabilities, excluding corporate taxes and for which no specific apportionment base can be dividends payable, and provisions other than those readily derived, the costs are apportioned to for deferred taxation.
The mean is computed from the Businesses or activities so as to reflect the value start and end values for the period, except in the case added by management effort, as reflected in the pay, of short-term investments and borrowings, where tangible fixed asset and investment costs within the daily averages are used in their place.
Current cost The change to historical costs arising from the Network Charge The basis on which interconnect charges have been CCA revaluation of assets on a current cost basis.
In the Control regime set with effect from 1 October 1997. adjustments statements for individual Businesses and activities NCC the adjustments comprise the holding gains or losses arising from changes in asset values, together with Network Within these statements, the term network the effect on asset values and depreciation of the components components includes both network components and appropriate allocation of current cost asset values network parts.
DAM The Detailed Attribution Methods see also page 127.
Ofcom Office of Communications This sets out the detailed processes by which revenues and costs are attributed to the Businesses Other operators Other telecommunication companies licensed to and activities.
operate in the UK, which purchase telecommunication services from BT under the terms 125 Glossary of terms continued of Condition 69 of BTs Licence.
POLO Payments to Other Licenced Operators.
Usage Factors Usage Factors refer to the usage of any network ppc Pence per call.
A numerical value of between 0.5m and 0.5 m. - PPP Product management, policy and planning.
PPSCCC Public Payphone Supplementary Call Conveyance Charge.
The BT publication Long Run Incremental Cost Relationships and Parameters Model: Relationships and Parameters describes in R&P detail how BT has applied the principles contained within the LRIC Methodology section of the Accounting Documents to construct cost volume relationships and to calculate LRIC.
The R&P also contains appendices which detail the relationships and parameters used within the model.
Return on mean The returns on mean capital employed for the periods capital employed are calculated on an annualised basis.
Route Factors Route Factors are expressions of network usage for the main network conveyance components.
RNAB BT Retail Narrowband Access Business.
RSB BT Retail Systems Business.
Safeguard Caps Safeguard Caps are a collection of services considered prospectively competitive and for which the rates are subject to specific charge controls.
SSB BT Supplemental Services Business.
Standard Services Services purchased by other operators under the terms of Condition 69 of BTs Licence.
Stand Alone Cost The stand-alone cost of an activity or subset of SAC activities is the cost incurred in providing that activity or activities of services by itself.
Stand alone cost will include all direct variable, activity specific fixed costs, common fixed costs and joint costs 126 Accounting Documents and other documentation Hard copies and CD Rom versions of the published Financial Statements for the Businesses and Activities, Accounting Documents and Detailed Attribution Methods, Detailed Valuation Methodology and Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters can be obtained from: BT Group Shareholder Helpline Tel Freefone 0808 100 4141 Fax 01903 833371 From outside the UK: Tel 44 121 433 4404 Fax 44 1903 833371 E-mail bt@lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk The Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars 2450 The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Website: http: www.
co. uk Copies of the above documents are also available from the following website: http: www.
