Notes to the Current Cost Financial Statements are shown as a reconciling item in note 10 below, since redundancy costs 1 Statutory accounts are not excluded from BTs statutory financial reporting.
These Current Cost Financial Statements, which are not statutory c Communications Networking Services accounts within the meaning of the Companies Act 1985, have been Following the unwind of the Concert joint venture and the reintegration prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents, Detailed of Communications Networking Services UK CNS into the BT Attribution Methodology, Detailed Valuation Methodology and Long Run Group, BT has received Ofcoms consent not to publish separate Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters, all dated 17 regulatory financial statements for CNS for the year ended 31 March August 2004.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2004 as would have been required by the Continuation Notice issued by 2003 was prepared in accordance with the Accounting Documents, Oftel to CNS on 23 July 2003.
The results of the UK and Rest of the Detailed Attribution Methodology, Detailed Valuation Methodology and World activities as previously defined in the CNS Licence are shown Long Run Incremental Cost Model: Relationships and Parameters, all separately within the Residual Business.
dated 19 September 2003 but restated to reflect the matters set out in note 3 below.
The policies set out in the Accounting Documents dated 19 September 2003 used for the comparatives are consistent with those of 3 Restatement of the 2003 Financial Statements the current period and appropriate adjustments and disclosures have been made where this is not the case.
The Annual Report prepared for The 2003 Financial Statements have been restated to make them the Group headed by BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2004, on comparable with the 2004 Financial Statements in respect of the which the auditors made an unqualified report, which did not contain a matters set out below.
statement under Section 237 2 or 3 of the Companies Act 1985, has been delivered to the Registrar of Companies.
a Interconnect ports A 2Mbit or Digital Line Termination DLT is required by an OLO to interconnect with the BT network at either a Local Exchange or, in the 2 Effect of certain Regulatory Decisions majority of cases, a Trunk Exchange.
The growth in both fitted capacity and costs for the Trunk Exchange layer in recent years was primarily to a Local Loop Unbundling LLU set up costs support interconnect traffic.
In its Determination on the pricing of metallic path facilities MPFs, Oftel stated that BT could recover its LLU system set-up costs from BT has implemented a new cost attribution methodology that reflects other network operators.
Oftel also decided that this recovery should better the extent to which local and main exchange port costs are driven form part of the connection charge for MPFs.
In these Current Cost by interconnect traffic.
Financial Statements, the LLU system set up costs have been deferred and will be amortised over their expected recovery period in line with the In addition, a new format has been used to report the Statement of costs number of MPF connections.
This capitalisation of costs is shown as an and charges for Standard Services relating to Interconnect Specific adjustment in the Reconciliation Statements in notes 10 below, since Basket Standard Services.
these costs were not deferred for statutory reporting purposes.
b Redundancy b Select Services In its Direction of 27 November 2002 the Direction, Oftel required BT Following the publication in March 2003 of the Wholesale line Rental: to exclude all redundancy items from the results of the Network Oftels Conclusions Statement, BT was required to enhance the WLR Business for the year ended 31 March 2003.
As required by the product by introducing new features and functionality, including Select Direction, the redundancy costs attributable to the Network Business Services, as part of the WLR Phase 2 WLR2 implementation process.
