Notes to the Current Cost Financial Statements BT has established two new network components, for which costs have Set out below is a summary of the treatment of the CCA adjustments been separately identified and which are shown in the Financial within the Current Cost Financial Statements: Statements.
The Network Select Services Switching component Changes in fixed asset values are referred to as holding gains or represents the costs of local exchange and intelligent network losses arising during the year and are attributed between all predominantly associated with processing the activations and use of Businesses, activities and components on the same basis as the Select Services and Network Features.
The costs of this component were associated assets.
previously predominantly included within the Local Exchange and Intelligent network components.
The Network Services Specific A supplementary depreciation adjustment on fixed assets arising component contains the costs of processing the select service orders from from differences between HCA and CCA valuations is also attributed Service Providers and is the cost of staffing and operating the Service between all Businesses, activities and components on this basis.
Previously, the costs of this component was predominantly included within the total costs of the Access Network.
Realised holding gains or losses previously recognised as unrealised arise only on disposal of fixed assets and are attributed to the c Partial Private Circuits PPCs Residual Business.
The costings for PPCs for the year ended 31 March 2003 have been restated to reflect a redefinition of distribution and trunk: the boundary Adjustments arising from foreign exchange translation of overseas between the two is now taken to be at the Tier 1 node.
In the prior year, investments are attributed to the Residual Business.
the boundary was taken to be at 15km circuit length.
The inflation adjustment to ordinary shareholders funds is not relevant d Core Transmission Fibre Cable Cost Volume Relationship CVR to the Businesses and activities for which Current Cost Financial The Cost Volume Relationship for Core Transmission Fibre Cable Statements are prepared.
CVR019 has been restated following adjustment of the increment specific fixed cost.
The adjustment has no effect on the results of any Business or Activity, but raises the LRIC floor of certain Standard 5 Inter Business balances Services.
The mean capital employed statements for the Businesses and The effect of these restatements is to decrease the charges from the disaggregated activities include balances relating to the charges from Network Business to the Retail Systems Business RSB - Local calls and the Network Business to the Retail Systems and Retail Narrowband National calls activities by 2m and 1m respectively, and to increase Access Businesses and their disaggregated activities.
The Retail Systems the charges to RSB Private Circuits and RSB Other by 27m and 63m and Retail Narrowband Businesses are deemed to settle these charges in respectively.
the same 59 day period as other operators.
4 CCA adjustments 6 Corporate costs The Current Cost Financial Statements for the Group are prepared Included in the operating costs of the Businesses and disaggregated under the Financial Capital Maintenance convention in accordance with activities is 197m 2003 - 176m of corporate costs, equal to 2% 2003 the principles set out in the handbook Accounting for the effects of 2% of the total operating costs of the Businesses.
changing prices, published in 1986 by the Accounting Standards Committee.
