Glossary of footnotes ratio taken as per pricing assumptions since volumes are too low to Footnotes to the Network Statement of Costs permit reliable measurement.
a These components include a number of different elements which are e Part of Core IN & Cambridge IN as shown in the Network Statement of used in different proportions for the delivery of services within this Costs.
See also note 9 to the Statements of costs and charges for heading.
As a result, no single volume of usage can be applied and so no Standard Services.
f Costs and charges associated with PSTN, ISDN, PRS, Freefone, local b mm million minutes: ms million seconds: L lines: trans call fee & national call fee are all the same.
transactions: cust customers: r rooms: ca cables: cct circuits: km kilometres.
d This component is directly allocated to a single activity within the BT i Not used.
j System set-up of 25.34p and 38.88p is included in the connection e This component had no costs for the year ending 31 March 2003. charges for LLU and Shared LLU respectively.
f For those components included in core, the floors are distributed long k The services disclosed represent bundles of PPC standard services run incremental costs.
For other network components, the floors are which do not correspond directly to the basis of charging for standard long run incremental costs.
service hence a comparable average charge cannot be derived.
g The ceilings are distributed stand alone costs.
l See note 10 to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services.
i See note 3 a. m See note 7 to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard j See note 3 b.
Footnotes to the Notes to the Current Cost Financial Statements and n See note 11 to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services Services.
o These units are the per annum average charge for 2mb circuits.
a Zero volumes are attributed therefore an average price is shown.
b Cost per DLE port independent of direction concentrator or network p mm million minutes: ms million seconds: L lines: trans transactions: cust customers: r rooms: ca cables: cct circuits: facing.
km kilometres: ct2 2mb circuits: lk links: le local ends: eq c Usage factor for DLE FRIACO Virtual Path assumed to be consistent equipments.
with pricing methodology Virtual Path LECO circuit excl.
FRIACO q This is the total cost for this component.
port DLE LECO adjustment ratio FRIACO port PPP.
Adjustment ratio taken to be average outturn value for year.
r BT's definition of mean capital employed includes short term investments calculated on a daily average basis rather than a simple d Usage factor for Single Tandem FRIACO Virtual Path assumed to be consistent with pricing methodology Virtual Path LECO circuit excl.
mean of opening and closing balances.
outgoing port Single Tandem LECO adjustment ratio plus outgoing s See note 3 c. port @ DLE LTC adjustment ratio plus LTC circuit excl.
FRIACO port LTC adjustment ratio plus FRIACO port plus PPP.
