Notes to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services The footnotes to the Standard Services Statements are given on page 124 BT is required by Condition 78 of the Licence to prepare Statements of components, the distributed long run incremental cost D LRIC costs and charges for Standard Services.
It is also required by Condition floor of those components and the distributed stand alone cost 78.7A to have each of these statements audited.
Condition 83 of the Licence D SAC ceiling of those components.
The cost floor and cost ceiling requires BT to treat Access Network Facilities as Standard Services.
Other of the Standard Services are derived by applying usage factors to the than as disclosed in note 1 below, Statements of costs and charges for component D LRIC and D SAC.
The actual floors and ceilings of Standard Services have been presented for all Standard Services except Standard Services would, if calculated, be lower and higher where the consent of Ofcom for non-disclosure has been received.
respectively than the values shown in these Statements.
Charges by the Network Business to the BT Retail Systems and BT 4.
The average charges are calculated using charges and volumes by time Retail Narrowband Access Businesses and Other Licenced Operators of day, where applicable.
The floors and ceilings are calculated by are made on the basis of their usage of the network.
This usage is dividing the total incremental or stand alone cost by the total volume defined in terms of Standard Services, which, except where without taking into account any time of day weighting.
dispensation has been received from Ofcom, are reported on pages 102 5.
The usage factors used to calculate the cost floor and ceiling of the to 119.
The charges for these Standard Services, which vary by time of Standard Services are the actual usage factors for the year, which are day, are independent of the identity of the purchaser of that service.
not necessarily the same as those used in the calculation of the average The charges for Standard Services are based on Ofcoms P0 charges as charges or in the P0s.
subsequently amended in accordance with the requirements of the Network Charge Control and other price control regimes.
Components are only shown where relevant to the Standard Services calculating usage is identical for the Retail Systems and Retail or Retail Sticks disclosed in the Statement.
Narrowband Access Businesses and Other Licenced Operators.
The costs of 999 and operator assistance non-chargeable inland are 2.
Conveyance Standard Services recovered within certain Standard Services, having been calculated as i Where a component is used by more than one service in a basket the shown on page 110.
The cost of the PPSCCC is derived in a similar amount applied for that component is the same for all services in manner.
The use of the network by the Retail Systems Business as that basket for the time period to which the charge is relevant.
part of its own operations is charged to its disaggregated activities on the basis of the costs calculated on page 110. ii If the average amounts applied by component within a basket are combined and usage factors applied for a service the result is not 8.
The statements of costs for Retail Sticks and Intermediate Services equal to the average charge for that service due to timing and shown on pages 109 and 118, and 110 and 119 do not form part of the weighting differences.
Statements of Standard Services but are included here to assist in the understanding of these Statements.
iii Where a transmission component is used only by a BT to BT service a stick the amount applied by time of day and route factors are 9.
Flat Rate Internet Access Call Origination FRIACO, for which a the same as those for services within the baskets to which the BT to Standard Service Statement is shown on pages 103 and 112, is BT service is associated.
Details of the costs and amounts applied to processed as part of the call origination standard service on a pence per sticks are shown on pages 109 and 118. minute basis, but is presented on a per circuit basis for comparability with the pricing structure.
In a Decision made subsequent to 31 March 3.
The Statements of costs and charges of Standard Services show the 2003, Oftel removed the charge for FRIACO IN retrospectively to 1 average charges for Standard Services, their usage of the Network 120 Notes to the Statements of costs and charges for Standard Services continued June 2002.
The average charge for the year ended 31 March 2003 is calculated prior to the effect of this Decision.
Partial Private Circuit PPC charges were established to recover through a separate up-front charge, the full capital cost of certain equipment.
As a result the rental charge for certain PPC services includes no element for the recovery of these equipment costs.
However, for costing purposes, this equipment is capitalised and depreciated within the overall PPC rental service costs.
As a result, the PPC Standard Service charges are not strictly comparable with the underlying cost of the service being provided.
Intra Building Circuit IBC connection charges were established to recover through a separate up-front charge, the full capital cost of DLT equipment.
As a result, the connection charges for these circuits include an element for the recovery of these equipment costs.
However, for costing purposes, this equipment is capitalised and depreciated within the IBC connection component.
As a result, the IBC connection charges are not strictly comparable with the underlying cost of the service provided.
