Definitions of the Businesses The full definition of the Businesses and their activities are set out on excluding BT to BT non-geographic calls.
Non-geographic call pages vii to xvi of the introduction to the Accounting Documents.
They charges are determined by the number called rather than by the are summarised as follows: distance or geographic destination of the call.
National calls include dialled calls charged at national tariff rates from BTs network to Network Business other fixed networks in the UK.
It also includes non-geographic calls The Business containing the costs, assets and liabilities of that part of the charged at Nationalcall and premium rate service tariff rates e. g. Systems Business relating to standard services and access network 0870, 090X from BTs network to other fixed networks in the UK.
facilities provided to other operators or similar services provided to the BT 3 International Calls Retail Narrowband Access and the BT Retail Systems Businesses.
The Continental, Intercontinental and Irish Republic calls originating Business includes services such as Carrier Pre-Selection CPS, Flat Rate from ordinary, ISDN and private payphone telephone exchange Internet Access Call Origination FRIACO and Access Network Facilities lines.
Income therefore comprises revenues from operators and transfer charges to the BT Retail Narrowband Access Business and the BT Retail 4 Calls to Mobile Systems Business for their respective use of the network.
Network charges Dialled calls originating on ordinary, ISDN and private payphone to other operators and BT Retail Systems Business are based on their lines that terminate on a mobile, not fixed, network.
consumption of bundles of network elements known as components into 5 Public Payphones standard network services.
BT is able to set charges for Standard Services Local, national and international dialled calls, originating from that do not correspond exactly to the fully allocated cost of these services.
public payphones, using cash, phonecards or credit cards.
Many of the charges are subject to a series of price caps.
6 Private Circuits Retail Narrowband Access Business Rental, maintenance, connection, shift and change of inland and The Business providing connection, takeover and rental of Switched international private circuits extending beyond customers curtilages Narrowband Lines purchased from the Network Business.
and which have access to the public switched network PSTN.
Retail Systems Business 7 Other Retail Systems The Business sells network services purchased from the Network Business.
All other telecommunication services, such as non-geographic calls The disaggregated activities within the Retail Systems Business are as terminating on BTs networks, that are within the Systems follows: Business.
1 Local Calls Local dialled calls charged at local tariff rates originating from Mobile Business The Mobile Business relates to the provision of Mobile telecommunications ordinary, ISDN and private payphone telephone exchange lines, services, such as mobility service provision and mobility agency re-seller excluding BT to BT non-geographic calls.
Non-geographic call charges are determined by the number called rather than by the services.
distance or geographic destination of the call.
Local Calls also Apparatus Supply Business include local dialled calls from BTs network to other fixed networks Comprises the rental and sale of customer premises equipment in the UK.
in the UK, including non-geographic calls from BTs network to other fixed networks in the UK charged at Lo-call rates i. e. 0845.
Supplemental Services Business 2 National Calls The Business relating to the supply of certain data and value added Dialled calls charged at national tariff rate originating from services.
ordinary, ISDN and private payphone telephone exchange lines, 122 Definitions of the Businesses continued Residual Business The Business includes all of British Telecommunications plcs income, costs, assets and liabilities not included in the Network, Retail Narrowband Access, Retail Systems, Mobile, Apparatus Supply and Supplemental Services Businesses.
This revenue relates primarily to specialist units, where the activities of these units fall outside the scope of BTs main licence.
This includes activities such as Syntegra, overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
It also includes activities regulated under other licences, such as the ex-Concert activities still operating under the separate CNS licence.
