Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-fifth Annual ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25p: General Meeting of JPMorgan Fleming Continental European Investment Trust plc will be held at iii the maximum price which may be paid for 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on Wednesday an ordinary share shall be an amount 28th July 2004 at 12.00 noon for the following equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an purposes.
ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock 1 To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Exchange Daily Official List for the five Accounts and the Auditors Report for the year business days immediately preceding the ended 31st March 2004. day on which the ordinary share is 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report purchased: for the year ended 31st March 2004. iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be 3 To declare a dividend on the ordinary shares.
made in the market for cash at prices 4 To re-elect Gal fide Pontbriand a Director of the below the prevailing net asset value per Company.
ordinary share as determined by the 5 To re-elect Robin Faber a Director of the Directors : Company.
v the authority hereby conferred shall 6 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to expire on 27th January 2006 unless the the Company and to authorise the Directors to authority is renewed at the Companys fix their remuneration.
Annual General Meeting in 2005 or at any Special Business other general meeting prior to such time: and To consider the following resolution which will be proposed as a special resolution: vi the Company may make a contract to 7 THAT the Company be generally and subject as purchase ordinary shares under the hereinafter appears unconditionally authorised authority hereby conferred prior to the in accordance with Section 166 of the expiry of such authority and may make a Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to purchases within the meaning of Section 163 any such contract notwithstanding such of the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25p expiry.
each in the capital of the Company PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT By order of the Board i the maximum number of ordinary shares JM Latter, for and on behalf of hereby authorised to be purchased shall J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, be 7,881,891 or, if less, that number of Secretary.
ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% 22nd June 2004 of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution: JPMorgan Fleming Continental European 31 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the above Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a shareholder from attending and voting if he so wishes.
2 Proxy forms must be lodged not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting at the office of the Registrar.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time of the meeting the Specified Time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the Specified Time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of shareholders to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Admittance to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders.
Guests will only be admitted by prior arrangement.
