Notice of Meeting ii the minimum price which may be paid for Notice is hereby given that the seventy seventh an ordinary share shall be 25p: Annual General Meeting of JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Investment Trust plc will be held at iii the maximum price which may be paid for 10 Aldermanbury, London EC2V 7RF on Friday an ordinary share shall be an amount 17th December 2004 at 2.00pm for the equal to 105 per cent of the average of following purposes: the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated 1 To receive the Directors Report & Accounts by reference to the London Stock and the Auditors Report for the year ended Exchange Daily Official List for the five 30th September 2004. business days immediately preceding the 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report day on which the share is purchased: for the year ended 30th September 2004. iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be 3 To elect Andrew Fleming a Director of the made in the market for cash at prices Company.
below the prevailing net asset value per 4 To elect Keith Percy a Director of the Company.
ordinary share as determined by the Directors : 5 To re-elect David Pearson a Director of the Company.
v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 16th June 2006 unless the authority is 6 To re-appoint Begbies Everett Chettle as renewed at the Companys Annual General auditors to the Company and to authorise the Meeting in 2005 or at any other general Directors to determine their remuneration.
meeting prior to such time: and Special Business vi the Company may make a contract to To consider the following resolution which will be purchase ordinary shares under the proposed as a Special Resolution: authority hereby conferred prior to the Authority to repurchase shares expiry of such authority and may make a 7 THAT the Company be generally and, subject as purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to hereinafter appears, unconditionally authorised any such contract notwithstanding such in accordance with Section 166 of the expiry.
Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of By order of the Board the Act of its issued ordinary shares of 25p JM Latter, for and on behalf of each in the capital of the Company J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, PROVIDED ALWAYSTHAT Secretary i the maximum number of ordinary shares 10th November 2004 hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 27,851,707 or, if less, that number of shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the passing of this Resolution: 26 JPMorgan Fleming Japanese Notes 1 Members entitled to attend and vote at the above meeting are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll vote on their behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The lodging of a form of proxy does not prevent a member from attending and voting if they so wish.
2 Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged at the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
3 To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members 48 hours before the time of the meeting the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If however the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
4 Entry to the above Meeting will be restricted to shareholders, with guests only by prior agreement.
