US GAAP information for the year ended 31 December 2004 The Groups financial statements are prepared in accordance with United adopted the fair value recognition and measurement provisions of Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP which differ SFAS123R Share-Based Payment.
Under the modified prospective in certain significant respects from United States Generally Accepted method, the compensation cost recognised in 2004 is measured under Accounting Principles US GAAP.
Set out below and overleaf the provisions of SFAS123R for all outstanding awards.
On adoption is a summary of the significant differences, a reconciliation of profit from certain awards have been reclassified from equity to liabilities based UK GAAP to US GAAP, earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP, on their fair values at 1 January 2004 and the incremental cost so arising a reconciliation of equity shareholders funds from UK GAAP to US GAAP on adoption, net of tax, is reported as the cumulative effect of a change and a consolidated summary cash flow statement on a US GAAP basis.
Prior periods have not been restated.
a Goodwill and other intangible assets g Derivative instruments Under UK GAAP goodwill arising on acquisitions made after 31 December Under UK GAAP changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives are 1997 is capitalised and is amortised through the profit and loss account not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed in Note 15. over a period of up to 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made Furthermore, gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts prior to 1 January 1998 remains eliminated against equity reserves.
used for hedging net investments have been taken to reserves.
Under US GAAP derivative financial instruments are recorded in the balance Under US GAAP the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid sheet as either an asset or liability at fair value.
Changes in the fair value over the fair value of the net assets acquired including identifiable intangible of these derivative instruments are recognised in the profit and loss account assets is assigned to goodwill.
Under SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.
Certain of the Groups Intangible Assets, goodwill is capitalised and is subject to annual or more derivatives qualify for hedge accounting under US GAAP thereby reducing frequent impairment tests to identify any impairment loss.
In accordance the effect on the profit and loss account from gains and losses arising from with SFAS 141 Business Combinations, identifiable intangible assets are changes in their fair values.
capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives.
h Fair value adjustments b Own shares Under UK GAAP fair value adjustments on acquisitions are charged The adoption of UITF38 Accounting for ESOP trusts on 1 January 2004 to goodwill up to the end of the accounting period following the year eliminated the difference between accounting for own shares under of acquisition.
Under US GAAP fair value adjustments made after the UK GAAP and US GAAP.
allocation period, a period usually not longer than one year from the date of acquisition, are taken to the profit and loss account.
c Ordinary dividends Under UK GAAP ordinary dividends are accounted for in the period i Deferred taxation to which they relate which may be earlier than the date of declaration.
The adoption of FRS19 Deferred Tax on 1 January 2002 eliminated Under US GAAP ordinary dividends are accounted for in the period in which the majority of differences between accounting for deferred taxation they are declared.
However, under US GAAP deferred taxation is recognised on the difference between fair values assigned d Property revaluations to assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations and their Under UK GAAP until 31 December 1999, land and buildings tax base.
Under UK GAAP deferred taxation is not recognised on this were revalued periodically and depreciation based on such revalued difference.
In addition, the deferred taxation adjustments also include amounts.
As permitted under FRS15 Tangible Fixed Assets, the the tax effect of other US GAAP adjustments.
valuations of land and buildings have not been and will not be updated.
Under US GAAP revaluations of fixed assets are not permitted and j Cash flows depreciation is calculated based on historic cost.
The principal difference between UK GAAP and US GAAP is in respect of classification.
Under UK GAAP the Group presents its cash flows e Pension costs from operating activities, returns on investments and servicing of finance, Under UK GAAP pension schemes are accounted for in accordance tax paid, capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, dividends paid, with FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
Under US GAAP they are accounted management of liquid resources and financing.
US GAAP requires only for under SFAS 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions and SFAS 88 three categories of cash flow activities which are operating, investing and Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined financing.
Cash flows arising from tax paid and returns on investments and Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits.
servicing of finance under UK GAAP are, with the exception of dividends paid to minority shareholders, included as operating activities under Under UK GAAP actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the US GAAP.
Dividend payments are included as a financing activity under year in which they arise.
Under US GAAP actuarial gains and losses which US GAAP.
In addition capital expenditure and acquisitions and disposals exceed 10% of the value of the assets or liabilities at the start of the under UK GAAP are presented as investing activities under US GAAP.
accounting period are amortised over the remaining lives of scheme members.
FRS17 requires that past service costs are recognised in full Under UK GAAP cash comprises cash in hand, deposits repayable on in the period in which they become vested whereas SFAS 87 requires that demand and overdrafts.
Under US GAAP cash and cash equivalents they be amortised over the remaining service lives of employees.
include short term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months and excludes overdrafts.
f Share schemes Under UK GAAP the Group recognises a compensation cost based on.
the market price of its own shares acquired to satisfy the requirements of the Long Term Incentive Plans and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme based on the intrinsic value of the awards.
Under US GAAP, for the year ended 31 December 2003, the Group accounted for share ownership plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of APB Opinion 25 Accounting for Stock issued to Employees and related interpretations.
In 2004 the Group 37 Bunzl plc US GAAP information continued for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 m m Profit for the financial year in accordance with UK GAAP 127.4 124.6 US GAAP adjustments: Amortisation of goodwill and other intangibles 14.0 14.5 Pension costs 0.9 3.6 Share schemes 4.8 2.5 Derivative instruments 6.9 10.1 Fair value adjustments 2.1 Deferred taxation 6.5 Taxation on above adjustments 1.0 1.6 Net income before cumulative effect of change in accounting policy on adoption of SFAS123R 134.2 131.7 Cumulative effect of change in accounting policy net of tax on adoption of SFAS123R 2.5 Net income for the financial year in accordance with US GAAP 131.7 131.7 Earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP 29.7p 28.9p Diluted earnings per share in accordance with US GAAP 29.3p 28.6p Restated m m Equity shareholders funds in accordance with UK GAAP 428.1 432.0 US GAAP adjustments: Goodwill and other intangibles 313.2 229.3 Ordinary dividends 39.9 37.0 Property revaluations 1.3 Pension costs 20.0 17.3 Share schemes 7.9 Deferred taxation 71.9 1.4 Taxation on above adjustments 4.7 3.5 Equity shareholders funds in accordance with US GAAP 716.7 712.2 Consolidated summary cash flow statement m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 151.4 189.9 Net cash outflow from investing activities 290.3 57.5 Net cash inflow outflow from financing activities 88.4 165.3 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents per US GAAP 50.5 32.9 Exchange movements 0.6 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year per US GAAP 158.8 192.2 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year per US GAAP 107.7 158.8 Restated on adoption of UITF38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
All results are from continuing operations.
