Shareholder information Financial calendar 2005 Registered office 110 Park Street Annual General Meeting 18 May London W1K 6NX Results for the half year to 30 June 2005 30 August Telephone 020 7495 4950 Fax 020 7495 4953 2006 Website www.
com Registered in England No 358948 Results for the year to 31 December 2005 February Annual Report circulated March Secretary P N Hussey Dividend payments are normally made on these dates: Ordinary shares final 1 July Registrar Ordinary shares interim 2 January Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Analysis of ordinary shareholders Bridgwater Road As at 31 December 2004 the Company had 6,362 2003: 6,400 Bristol BS99 7NH shareholders who held 450.0 million 2003: 448.3 million ordinary Telephone 0870 702 0001 shares between them, analysed as follows: Fax 0870 703 6116 Website www.
com Size of holding Number of shareholders % of issued share capital 0 10,000 5,609 2 Auditors KPMG Audit Plc 10,001 100,000 433 3 100,001 500,000 192 10 Stockbrokers 500,001 1,000,000 53 8 JPMorgan Cazenove 1,000,001 and over 75 77 Citigroup 6,362 100 40 Bunzl plc 1 Directors report 2 Corporate governance 4 Consolidated profit and loss account 5 Consolidated balance sheet 6 Consolidated cash flow statement 7 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 7 Consolidated reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 8 Company balance sheet 9 Accounting policies 10 Notes to the financial statements 29 Statement of directors responsibilities 29 Independent auditors report 30 Directors remuneration report 37 US GAAP information 39 Five year review 40 Shareholder information Designed and produced by Sheppard Day Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Report and Accounts 2004 Bunzl plc 110 Park Street London W1K 6NX T 020 7495 4950 F 020 7495 4953 W www.
com Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Bunzl plc 110 Park Street London W1K 6NX T 020 7495 4950 F 020 7495 4953 W www.
com Bunzl operates in two distinct business areas: Outsourcing Services and Filtrona.
From 380 locations in 30 countries our 14,600 employees provide an efficient service to our business customers.
We have developed sound partnerships with both suppliers and customers by providing outsourcing solutions and customer service oriented distribution, in the case of Outsourcing Services, and light manufacture, in the case of Filtrona.
Designed and produced by Sheppard Day Financial highlights 14% 16% 18% Sales Operating profit Adjusted earnings per share Renewed momentum in Operating profit rose 16% A lower tax rate and fewer acquisitions combined with at constant exchange rates shares in issue helped organic growth caused as efficiency increased in adjusted earnings per share sales to grow 14% at both Outsourcing Services increase 18% at constant constant exchange rates.
Growth Actual Constant 2004 2003 exchange rates exchange rates Sales m 2,916.0 2,728.2 7% 14% Operating profit m 230.8 214.1 8% 16% Profit before tax m 200.9 194.6 3% 11% Profit before tax m 226.0 212.3 6% 14% Basic earnings per share p 28.7 27.4 5% 13% Adjusted earnings per share p 34.4 31.3 10% 18% Dividends per share p 13.3 12.1 10% Gearing % 94.6 22.3 Before goodwill amortisation.
1 Financial highlights 2 Bunzl at a glance 4 Chairmans statement 8 Management 10 Operating review 10 Outsourcing Services 18 Filtrona 22 Directors 24 Financial review 26 Corporate social responsibility 28 Summary financial statement 34 Statement of the independent auditors 35 Summary five year review 36 Shareholder information In this Annual Review, profits for each of the business areas have been stated before total goodwill amortisation of 25.1m 2003: 17.7m and references to changes in the level of sales and profits at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating the relevant results for the year ended 31 December 2003 at the average exchange rates used for the year ended 31 December 2004.
1 Bunzl plc Bunzl at a glance Outsourcing Services Operating across North America, Europe and Australasia, Bunzl is the leading supplier of a range of products including outsourced food packaging, disposable supplies and cleaning and safety products for supermarkets, redistributors, caterers, food processors, hotels, contract cleaners, non-food retail and other users.
Sales m 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Operating profit m 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Outsourcing Services Sales 2,438.5m Operating profit 184.8m Profit margin 7.6% Before goodwill amortisation.
2 Bunzl plc 184.8 2,438.5 Filtrona Filtrona is a supplier of fibre and plastic technology products to international niche markets.
Within these two business segments it is a world leading supplier of outsourced cigarette filters, ink reservoirs and other bonded fibre products, protective caps and plugs, self-adhesive tear tapes and certain security products.
It is also a leading extruder of custom plastic profiles.
Sales m c k j i a g h b 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Operating profit m f o l e d n m 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Group information Filtrona Sales by business area The markets we serve Sales a Outsourcing Services g Grocery foodservice 56% 477.5m North America 49% h Health & hygiene 14% Operating profit b Outsourcing Services i FMCG 8% Europe & Australasia 35% j Retail non-food 5% 59.1m c Filtrona 16% k Other 17% Profit margin 12.4% Sales by geography Raw material of products we supply d North America 55% e Europe 39% l Plastic resins 40% f Rest of the world 6% m Pulp 30% n Chemicals 6% o Other 24% 59.1 477.5 3 Bunzl plc Chairmans statement Following the demerger of Filtrona, Bunzl will be a focused, international, value-added distribution and outsourcing Group.
After an excellent year for the Group as a whole and with good underlying momentum, the Board has decided that it is the right time to demerge our successful Filtrona organisation from our growing and highly profitable Outsourcing Services business.
Filtrona, which represents 16% of Group sales and 24% of Group operating profit before corporate costs and goodwill amortisation, will become a stand-alone supplier of fibre and plastic technology products with strong positions in international niche markets.
Bunzl will become a focused international distribution and outsourcing Group.
Simultaneous with the demerger which is planned for June 2005, the Board will appoint Christoph Sander as Chief Executive of Bunzl and Mark Harper will become Chief Executive of the demerged Filtrona.
I will remain Chairman of Bunzl and Jeff Harris will become Chairman of Filtrona.
Results Total shareholder return relative The Group once again had 400 a successful year in 2004 as good 350 results were enhanced by renewed 300 momentum in acquisition activity.
250 Sales were 2,916.0 million 2003: 2,728.2 million, 200 up 14% at constant exchange 150 rates, and operating profit was 100 205.7 million 2003: 196.4 50 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 million, a rise of 13% at constant Bunzl relative to FTSE Support Services Sector exchange rates.
Profit before tax and goodwill amortisation was Source: Datastream 226.0 million 2003: 212.3 million, up 14% at constant exchange rates.
Profit before tax was 200.9 million 2003: 194.6 million, 11% ahead at constant exchange rates.
Earnings per share were 28.7p 2003: 27.4p, up 13% at constant exchange 4 4 Bunzl plc Bunzl plc Share price range p Adjusted earnings per share p 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 rates and adjusted earnings per Pat is responsible for our North to achieve this by paying the entity will constitute Jeff Harris share, after eliminating goodwill American Outsourcing Services existing shareholders of Bunzl as Chairman, Mark Harper as amortisation, were 34.4p 2003: business in which he has held a dividend in specie.
Filtrona Chief Executive, Steve Dryden 31.3p, a rise of 18% at constant various senior positions over will be an independent public as Finance Director, Paul Heiden exchange rates.
Mark assumed company while Bunzl will as an independent non-executive responsibility for Filtrona in 1996 become a simpler organisation director plus at least one further After a cash outflow of 323.6 after holding general management concentrating on the Outsourcing independent non-executive million on acquisitions and positions in both Europe and Services business stream.
An additional independent a spend of 58.2 million buying the US.
non-executive director will be back shares on the market, We believe that shareholder appointed to replace Paul Heiden net debt at the end of the period Paul Lorenzini retired from the value will be created through who would not expect to serve rose to 405.2 million 2003: Board in July after 21 years with the demerger process and that beyond a transitional period of 96.5 million.
He was appointed Filtrona and Bunzl will be strong around six months.
to the honorary position of businesses in their own right Chairman Emeritus of Bunzl USA with good returns and good Acquisitions Dividend in recognition of his past service international competitive positions The Group spent 324 million The Board is recommending an to the Group.
Stephen Williams which will prosper as individual on acquisitions during 2004 as a increase in the final dividend to retired as a non-executive director listed entities.
It is hoped that major expansion into France was 9.15p 2003: 8.25p.
His independent advice the process of demerger, which achieved and the momentum in the total dividend for the year to and contribution to our success will be subject to shareholder North America was regained after 13.3p 2003: 12.1p, an increase were greatly valued.
approval, will be completed a period of relatively low activity.
Shareholders will again by June 2005.
In addition we added businesses have the opportunity to participate We welcome Ulrich, Christoph, in the Netherlands, Australia and in our dividend reinvestment plan.
Pat and Mark to the Board and Boards of the demerged entities Eastern Europe.
thank Paul and Stephen for their The Board will appoint Christoph Board changes in 2004 valuable service over many years.
Sander as Chief Executive of Bunzl In May we acquired Groupe Pierre Bunzl strengthened its on completion of the demerger.
This significant acquisition independent Board with the Planned demerger I will remain as Chairman.
The role with pro forma sales in 2003 of appointment of Dr Ulrich Wolters Since 1991 the structure of Bunzl of Deputy Chairman will cease to 422 million took Outsourcing as a non-executive director in July.
has been simplified by selling exist as of the demerger and Pat Services into France with a Ulrich is Chairman of the Aldi businesses with weaker returns Dyer, currently Deputy Chairman, leading position in both the Family Trust which holds the and relatively poor competitive will retire from the Board at the cleaning and safety markets in majority of the Aldi Sd shares, positions and reinvesting the end of the year.
A strong position in having been Managing Director proceeds from these disposals and Paul Heiden will resign from France complements our existing of Aldi Sd for many years and to grow businesses where we have the Board as of the demerger.
European positions in the UK, built the business into one of superior returns, good international The Board of Bunzl will then Benelux, Germany, Denmark and the worlds leading international competitive positions and the constitute a Chairman, a Chief Ireland and provides us with a retailers with over 2,800 outlets.
The pursuit Executive and two other executive strong platform to develop further Also in July Christoph Sander of this strategy has resulted directors, four existing independent in France and Southern Europe was appointed to the Board in Bunzl having two business non-executive directors of which while reinforcing our position as with responsibility for Bunzls streams, Outsourcing Services and Jeff Harris will continue to act the logical partner for international Outsourcing Services business Filtrona, both of which have these as the senior independent director customers and suppliers.
in Europe and Australasia, having features but which have little or and, in addition, Pat Dyer who led it from its inception in 1993 no commercial overlap between will continue to serve as a During the fourth quarter we to a business with sales in excess them.
The Board has therefore non-executive director until the regained momentum in North of 1 billion.
In December the decided to separate these two year end.
America with the addition of over Board was further strengthened fundamentally different component $200 million of annualised sales by the appointment of Patrick parts by demerging Filtrona It is proposed that the Board through the acquisitions of three Larmon and Mark Harper.
It is planned of the prospective demerged significant companies.
we reinforced our position in successful Australian business on operating capital rose from serve our customers in the most the growing convenience store and deepens our penetration 45.1% to 46.8%.
segment through the acquisition there.
In November we made our We believe that up to date assets of TSN.
Headquartered in Denver, first acquisition in Eastern Europe Outsourcing Services had an are an important source of our Colorado, TSN had sales in 2003 with the purchase of Beltex, excellent year with sales up 14% competitive advantage and of $130 million and is a leading a leading national distributor at constant exchange rates to investing in them remains a priority.
distributor of goods not for resale in Hungary with additional branches 2,438.5 million 2003: 2,275.6 to that sector across the US.
in neighbouring Romania and million and operating profit before Employees In November we purchased Slovakia with sales in 2003 of goodwill amortisation up 16% at Worldwide we rely on our Joseph Weil & Sons.
Its product range constant exchange rates to 184.8 employees to provide first rate in Chicago and with sales in the encompasses cleaning and million 2003: 170.5 million.
customer service and liaison year ended 30 June 2004 of hygiene supplies and has recently At constant exchange rates sales with our suppliers.
Their diligence $53 million, Weil supplies jan san, expanded into safety supplies and in North America rose 4% and and hard work continue to build disposable food service and personal protection equipment.
operating profit was up by 1%.
our reputation in all aspects of non-food retail products in the It establishes a platform for us In Europe and Australasia sales our business.
Their loyalty and Midwest, complements our in a key region of growth.
at constant exchange rates were efforts are greatly appreciated.
position there and provides 34% higher and operating profit We genuinely believe that the us with an opportunity to develop In January 2005, we completed rose 44% driven by efficiencies proposed demerger will provide further into these markets.
Based resulting from increased scale greater opportunities for our In December we further expanded in Arnhem, Gelpa had sales combined with the impact of employees in both parts of the with the acquisition of TEMO.
of 43 million in 2003 and successful acquisition activity.
It is their efforts that allow Located in Maspeth, New York and is a distributor principally supplying us to produce excellent results and with sales in 2003 of $28 million, the retail and food processor Filtrona also produced excellent continue our positive development.
TEMO is a well-established sectors with packaging and results with sales up 12% at redistribution business in the consumables in the Netherlands.
constant exchange rates to International Financial Northeast distributing food 477.5 million 2003: 452.6 Reporting Standards service and jan san products.
Share buy back million and operating profit before The Group will be reporting 2005 In October the Board reinstated goodwill amortisation up 13% results on the basis of IFRS Elsewhere we also continued a share buy back programme at constant exchange rates to rather than UK GAAP.
following the purchase and 59.1 million 2003: 56.1 million.
results restated under IFRS for In March we expanded Filtrona cancellation of 21.3 million shares Good underlying growth was comparative purposes will be with the acquisition of Skiffy in 2003.
A total of 13.0 million supplemented by the acquisition supplied in the second quarter in Amsterdam.
With sales in shares were purchased into of Skiffy and the annualisation of of 2005. the year ended March 2004 of treasury at a cost of 58.2 million the results of the Fibertec business 13 million, Skiffy has particular and an average price of 4.48 which was purchased from Prospects expertise in the supply of small per share.
These purchases Baumgartner in October 2003.
Against a background of an nylon parts for protection and were consistent with the Boards improved world economy in 2004, finishing applications and continuing overall capital Investment albeit with a weak US dollar, both enhances our existing operations management strategy.
We continued to invest in the Outsourcing Services and Filtrona in Europe and North America.
This strategy seeks to maintain capital base of the Group.
New again showed their strengths as In October we acquired the an appropriate balance sheet facilities in lower cost countries international businesses with disposable consumables and structure taking into account are coming on stream in 2005 excellent increases in sales packaging distribution business completed and prospective and both equipment and and operating profit at constant of Cospak in Australia.
warehouses have been expanded exchange rates.
The increases in in Newcastle, New South Wales and upgraded during the year.
the second half in each case were and Perth, the Cospak business, Operating performance Computer systems continue greater than those in the first half.
which had sales in the year ended Group margin before goodwill to be improved and installed into Renewed momentum in the US 30 June 2004 of A$35 million, amortisation rose from 7.8% acquired facilities.
These systems during the fourth quarter and the complements our existing to 7.9% and Group return remain critical to our ability to impact of achieving scale 6 6 Bunzl plc Bunzl plc Return on average operating capital % Profit margin 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Restated for UITF38.
advantage across Europe and gains associated with our Operating performance Australasia have carried forward increased scale should continue into the early weeks of 2005 to deliver benefits.
Actual exchange rates Constant exchange rates Operating Operating as has the strong performance Sales profit Sales profit of Filtrona in both fibre and In Filtrona, the underlying growth % growth % growth % growth % growth plastic technologies.
of our markets is continuing Outsourcing Services 7 8 14 16 in improving economic conditions North America 6 8 4 1 We see the proposed demerger and each of our businesses is Europe & Australasia 33 44 33 44 as being positive to the performing well.
In addition we Filtrona 5 5 12 13 prospects of both sides of the expect to show continued growth Total 7 8 14 16 business as the management from acquisitions and as we of each of the demerged entities supplement our existing supply concentrates on developing bases with product from sourced its strengths internationally or owned production from lower in its distinct fields of operation.
cost facilities in Mexico, China Outsourcing Services will and other appropriate sources.
focus on distribution, often to major international customers, Our strong focused competitive from growing preferred vendors position in our international and international sources.
markets and our ability to enhance Filtrona will focus on serving growth through acquisitions give well defined international niche us confidence that both parts markets in fibre and plastic of the Group will maintain their technologies from efficient, momentum and continue their effective, low cost sources.
We expect Outsourcing Services in North America to grow as a result of renewed momentum in acquisition activity and increased sales to higher growth areas such as redistribution, food processors, Anthony Habgood convenience stores and the Chairman jan san market.
Generally firm 28 February 2005 product prices, as a result of higher commodity input prices to our suppliers, should prevent growth being eroded by deflation, certainly in the immediate future.
In Europe and Australasia we expect sales growth to continue particularly as recent acquisitions are integrated into the business.
We also expect future acquisition activity to expand our geographic coverage and deepen our participation in existing markets.
The cost savings and efficiency 28.3 29.4 32.2 33.0 36.5 38.9 39.0 41.1 45.1 46.8 6.3 6.5 7.4 7.4 7.5 7.7 7.5 7.5 7.8 7.9 7 7 7 Bunzl plc Bunzl plc Bunzl plc Management Managers from across the Group meet to review performance, discuss trends affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
8 Bunzl plc 1 23456 7 1 Anthony Habgood 3 Pat Larmon 6 David Williams Chairman Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Outsourcing Services 2 Nancy Lester North America 7 Christoph Sander Director of Corporate Managing Director Development 4 Mark Harper Outsourcing Services Managing Director Europe & Australasia Filtrona 5 Celia Baxter Director of Group Human Resources 9 Bunzl plc Outsourcing Services Operating across North America, Europe and Australasia, Bunzl is the leading supplier of a range of products including outsourced food packaging, disposable supplies and cleaning and safety products for supermarkets, redistributors, caterers, food processors, hotels, contract cleaners, non-food retail and other users.
10 10 Bunzl plc Bunzl plc 14% 16% Outsourcing Services Items for presenting Sales Operating profit fresh food attractively High growth in Europe and Increased scale in Europe and protective clothing renewed momentum in combined with higher and equipment are North America caused margin acquisitions helped important product ranges sales to grow 14% at profit to rise 16% at within our business.
Highlights of the year Groupe Pierre Le Goff helped us achieve scale across Europe TSN made us a leading supplier to convenience stores in the US Renewed US acquisition momentum was confirmed as Weil and TEMO were also bought in the fourth quarter Australasia supplemented good organic growth with acquisition activity Beltex took us into Eastern Europe for the first time 11 11 Bunzl plc Bunzl plc Outsourcing Services continued TSN forecourt products Convenience stores Till rolls top left and other We acquired Denver-based forecourt items including TSN in October to hand towels, dispensers strengthen our sales and bins bottom left are nationally to convenience supplied to gas stations stores which often adjoin by TSN.
Outsourcing Services In October through our acquisition future growth.
In December we area, we provide disposable North America of TSN, headquartered in purchased TEMO, a New York packaging, jan san supplies and Denver, we increased our redistribution company servicing carryout items.
Consolidation In North America, dollar sales presence in convenience stores.
a customer base that fits continued and, although this has grew at 4% to $2,571.4 million TSN is a leading distributor strategically with our other resulted in larger customers, it while operating profit was up of disposable packaging locations in the area.
It is a has also created an opportunity 2% to $193.1 million.
supplies, jan san products well managed company that for smaller specialised stores to and foodservice items to the will solidify our position as a provide an array of products and The mix of our business convenience store chains and leading redistribution company services not found in the larger continued to change as the wholesalers.
The convenience in the Northeast.
This area will provide an proportion of our total sales store industry has shown good significant transactions have opportunity for us in the future.
in redistribution, processors, growth over the last several accelerated the reorientation Our redistribution customers convenience stores, non-food years and is forecast to continue of our business and we will include small distributors that retail and jan san continued this growth going forward.
continue to look for acquisitions use us to reduce their capital to expand while grocery, TSN puts us in position to that fit our distribution model investment and increase their which is still the largest of our take advantage of these and create opportunities for inventory turns without giving customer categories, again opportunities.
Later in the year us to grow.
up the availability of the many decreased as a percentage we purchased Joseph Weil & items they need to drive more of total sales.
This reorientation Sons, a supplier to redistribution Our grocery customers include sales.
As transportation costs of the business was speeded and non-food retail based in small, regional and national increase due to fuel costs and up by the renewed level Chicago.
It also has business supermarket chains as well driver regulations, our platform of acquisition activity in the in jan san and increases our as warehouse grocery stores.
has become more attractive fourth quarter.
presence in areas targeted for As the largest distributor in this to our vendors and customers.
12 Bunzl plc This continues to be a solid can order all these items and every style, type and price range allows our warehouse locations, growth area for us.
Besides receive them through one order needed to increase their sales, no matter how small, the ability disposable packaging and and delivery rather than receiving run their plants more efficiently to order many of these products carryout items, we also provide them from multiple vendors that or safely, maintain cleanliness in the most efficient manner.
these customers with jan san have to be managed.
We have and hygiene and or reduce their We are considering more products which is a focus for developed a group of specialists cost of packaging.
Our private locations in this area of the us moving forward.
Our business in this area to help our customers label program, Prime Source, world as the number of items we with processors, which also with this part of their business.
continues to grow as we add import continues to grow.
Several grew in 2004, was hampered more items and offers our of our customers look to us as by restrictions imposed Our focus continues to be customers a less costly their partner in the importing area.
by various international providing plastic and paper alternative without sacrificing governments on North American disposable packaging items quality.
In addition we continue Besides providing our customers sourced product.
However it for grocery and foodservice, to source internationally quality products at a competitive appears these are changing janitorial supplies, carryout innovative economic products price, we also provide them and the situation should bags and containers and plant for our customers.
Our import solutions for managing this part improve.
Our customers process operating supplies.
We make program has expanded of their business.
Our programs and package meat, produce, available to our customers significantly again this year allow the customers to use seafood, bakery and other items.
one of the largest selections providing us with alternative valuable space in their We continue to be the only of products thereby allowing high quality products at very warehouses for more profitable, national supplier of packaging them to choose appropriately competitive prices.
To handle lower volume, higher dollar products, plant operating for their needs and those of their the increased volume we have resale items.
With 83 locations supplies, safety supplies and customers.
With over 60,000 opened a consolidation in North America serving all 50 jan san supplies.
Our customers items, the customer will find warehouse in Shanghai that states, Canada and Mexico, we Expansion in Chicago Jan san items from Joseph Weil & Sons, which we acquired in November, are part of the product range supplied from their Chicago warehouse.
13 Bunzl plc Outsourcing Services continued Prime Source Acquisition of TEMO Through our own brand, Foodservice items are just Prime Source, we source part of the product range and supply a range of high supplied by TEMO quality goods including to sub-distributors wooden skewers.
are able to deliver the right is a significant opportunity for controlled and consistent logistics platform and delivery products in the right quantities additional national contracts program to the customer similar routes, we will see improvement on the day they are needed.
and have committed resources to our national programs in place in the future.
Our standardised With a fleet of over 370 trucks, to our National Accounts now.
Also, by combining our procedures in all facets of the our customers are confident the department in an effort to worldwide purchasing power, operation, including warehousing product will be delivered when pursue these customers.
we are able to lower costs and customer service, will required.
Due to our number on various product lines on contribute to long term efficiency of locations, our common We have always been successful a global basis.
We continue to improve IT platform and our logistics with small, regional and national demonstrated this on several our complete supply chain costs capabilities, we are able to customers.
This is an advantage and improve our overall operations.
service the needs of national of our customers have grown that we are confident will lead accounts across the business.
not just nationally but globally.
to increased sales in the future.
Customers are assured of a During 2004, we have worked consistent, dependable and with our European and Despite productivity gains in controlled program that will Australian counterparts several areas of the business, contribute to a more efficient on international sales and operating costs remained supply chain.
Our ability to purchasing programs.
Global consistent with last year due provide these services has negotiations have started with to rising fuel costs and health allowed us to develop long customers and vendors who and benefit costs.
However we term relationships with many have expanded to markets believe we have managed these large customers resulting in in all areas of the world.
We increases effectively and are multi-year contracts to supply are one of the few companies confident that with improvements our products.
We believe there that will be able to deliver a to our IT capabilities, facilities, 14 Bunzl plc Outsourcing Services a European and Australasian we are able to demonstrate performed well despite lower Europe & Australasia business in 11 countries with savings throughout the supply spending by a number of our real substance and scale in chain.
This allows our customers key customers due to lower Our business in Europe and the UK and Ireland, Continental to reduce their internal costs throughput in their own Australasia exceeded 1 billion Europe principally France, of operation and achieve businesses.
Our Lockhart in sales for the first time.
The Germany, the Netherlands, efficiencies by concentrating business, which specialises acquisition of Groupe Pierre Denmark and Australasia on their own core businesses.
in light catering equipment, Le Goff in France in May 2004 Australia, New Zealand.
was able to secure a long increased the scale of the Moreover we are expanding Growth in 2004 has come mainly term contract with a major business by approximately one into new areas, such as Eastern from acquisitions but also from international contract caterer third.
The effect of this in the Europe, which provide added significant new contract wins and was also successful in year, combined with continued growth potential.
and a broadening of our product winning new contracts with hotel organic growth and further range with existing customers.
and restaurant groups increasing in-fill acquisitions, has enabled In each country we aim to provide These effects have more than the critical mass of our business.
our business to achieve record our customers with a one stop offset any impact of deflationary During the year we opened sales and profits with the former shop for all their purchasing, price pressure, lower consumption a new purpose-built National increasing by 33% to 1,025.6 warehousing & distribution and and substitution for lower Distribution Centre based million and the latter by 44% servicing needs.
By providing specification products, for example in Kettering, which supplies to 78.7 million.
customers with management in the retail and catering sectors.
a broad range of slower-moving information to improve the items on a cross-dock basis to From our first acquisition in the control of their expenditures In the UK and Ireland, our our branch network.
By enabling UK in 1993, just over 11 years on a broad range of largely businesses supplying Horeca us to supply a broader range of ago, we have now developed non-food consumable products, hotels, restaurants, caterers catering disposables, as well as Entry into France Groupe Pierre Le Goff Groupe Pierre Le Goff, Safety products including which was acquired in gloves top right and May, supplies cleaning cleaning and hygiene and safety products to products such as the newly industrial and commercial launched Techline range customers including the bottom right are supplied French railways.
15 Bunzl plc Outsourcing Services continued Entry into Hungary Cleaning supplies are the core products that Beltex distributes in Hungary, Slovakia and Romania.
light catering equipment, we can strong year and posted good In cleaning and safety supplies, Groupe Pierre Le Goff which now offer a one stop shop with organic growth as it increased Greenham continues to perform provided an entry point of scale the broadest range of products its share into the healthcare and strongly with good organic growth into one of the leading markets available in the UK market.
nursing home markets in the coming from new contract wins in Europe.
In Ireland our hotel and in public transportation, building Le Goffs activities lie mainly Our retail supplies business, catering supplies business also and construction and local in the supply of cleaning and which focuses on supplying performed well and was able government.
Increasingly personal hygiene products to French supermarkets and non-food to increase penetration into its protection equipment is imported caterers, hotels and industry retailers with goods not for target markets.
from global sources and, to in general as well as the resale, was able to continue capture this opportunity, we more supply of personal protection to make progress in supplying The challenging market than doubled the capacity of our equipment safety products key retailers in the UK.
conditions in Horeca also importing and National Distribution to French industry, food New long term contracts impacted our Vending Services Centre.
We also continued the processors and transportation were agreed with two major business, whose customers development of our own-label sectors.
These businesses supermarket groups and we are faced reduced consumption range of brands with great are both complementary confident of future successes due to staff cutbacks and success.
Cleaning & Hygiene to our activities in the UK and going forward.
During the year outsourcing of labour to lower Supplies completed the full elsewhere and we have already we also integrated the supply cost countries.
Nevertheless integration of Darenas and is now begun to see the benefits chain of our healthcare supplies we succeeded in increasing our running on a single IT system with of synergies in purchasing, business, Shermond, with the sales overall and positioning an integrated branch structure.
IT systems and key accounts.
retail business as many of the ourselves as the clear leading The acquisition has been supply chain characteristics are independent vending operator In Continental Europe our main well received by employees, common.
Shermond had another in the UK market.
initiative was the acquisition of customers and suppliers, and 16 Bunzl plc the business has performed we had a strong year in terms Europe, when we acquired end of the year we acquired the ahead of expectations.
of sales and profits growth, Beltex, based in Hungary.
This disposables distribution business winning a number of prestigious business is a leading distributor of Cospak with branches in Our businesses in Denmark are accounts.
In the Netherlands of cleaning and safety products Perth, Newcastle and a number set for increased activity in 2005. our business is focused mainly in Hungary with two smaller of other locations.
These have Last year was the first full year on hotels and caterers and branches in neighbouring already been integrated into the of the MultiLine acquisition which consequently suffered from the Slovakia and Romania.
came in ahead of expectations.
downturn in the Dutch economy.
are developing the opportunities This acquisition has increased Our business supplying retailers However, following a move to a with international suppliers and our size significantly in Australia had a more difficult year as we purpose-built facility outside customers there and we believe and has given us further reach focused our distribution activities Amsterdam, we are well placed that this is an area of potential into areas where we have been around a new purpose-built to capitalise on any recovery for the future.
During the warehouse outside Copenhagen and have added to our customer year we have also been able combining three locations into base.
Gelpa, which we purchased In Australasia our business to continue the development one, successfully implemented in January 2005, provides us continues to perform well and of our Lesnies business, which our IT systems and created with a route into the supermarket achieved another record year is focused on supplying food a stronger platform for 2005. and food processor sectors.
In addition to contract processors, and we have We believe that this will provide wins in the hotel, catering successfully extended our In Germany our business exciting opportunities for Bunzl and healthcare sectors, we business in New Zealand.
supplies mainly caterers and in the Benelux region as a whole.
strengthened our regional high street butchers and bakers position in Melbourne and also with packaging products.
2004 also saw the first acquisition in Tasmania, which is a new Against a challenging market by Bunzl of a business in Eastern geography for us.
Towards the Expansion in Australia Dutch acquisition The acquisition of the Our acquisition of Gelpa disposable packaging in 2005 has enabled us distribution business of to supply retail customers Cospak has strengthened with microwaveable, our position in the deli, leakproof cardboard and bakery and foodservice disposable containers sector in Australia.
for takeaway hot meals, snacks and finger foods in the Netherlands.
17 Bunzl plc Filtrona Filtrona is a supplier of fibre and plastic technology products to international niche markets.
00% 12% 13% New Chinese facility Ink reservoirs for writing Sales Operating profit Groupe Pierre le Goffe : Operating profit: instruments are one Organic growth in fibre Increased efficiencies across The acquisition of Groupe quote about the increase of the product lines and plastic technologies Filtrona and technical Pierre le Goffe has in profit at constant to be produced at our combined with acquisitions innovation helped operating extended our personal exchange rates in the newly constructed bonded caused sales to rise 12% profit increase by 13% at protection equipment and Europe and Australasia fibre plant in Ningbo.
safety and cleaning businesses of Bunzl.
18 18 Bunzl plc Bunzl plc 10 years ago we supplied Highlights of the year health and safety equipment to 7 different countries.
The acquisition of Skiffy extended our range of protection and Today we supply to finishing products A state-of-the-art filter facility was 36countries constructed in Mexico Our new joint venture in track and worldwide trace showed encouraging results A Chinese bonded fibre plant has been built to serve the Asian market New warehouses were established to improve service in Russia and Korea 19 19 Bunzl plc Bunzl plc Filtrona continued Complex special filters Value-added tear tape Mexican filter production As the worlds largest Payne printed tear We have started independent manufacturer tape provides brand production of cigarette of complex charcoal, enhancement and additional filters in our new Monterrey triple and recess filters security for a wide variety facility.
It will become for the cigarette market, of consumer goods a regional manufacturing consistency of quality is including cigarettes around centre of excellence critically important top left.
At constant exchange rates, customers throughout the world.
Our outsourced cigarette filters consumer tastes, ever stricter sales in Filtrona rose by These customers range from small business grew in all regions, legislative requirements and 12% to 477.5 million 2003: localised producers and distributors with Asia continuing to perform the growing industry interest 452.6 million driven by robust to large, complex multinational particularly well, although headline in filters which can reduce underlying organic growth in both manufacturing organisations.
results were again impacted by particular constituents within segments supplemented by the Filtrona occupies technological currency translation.
sales impact from the acquisitions and market leadership positions in new special filter outsourcing of the filters and fibres division small focused international niches, agreements were secured during Fibertec, based in Richmond, of Baumgartner and Skiffy.
where the development of quality, the year which more than offset Virginia and Reinbek, Germany, Profits at constant exchange rates differentiated positions is achievable any increase in self manufacture.
sells reservoirs and wicking grew by 13% to 59.1 million through consistent investment A new special filter facility was devices manufactured using 2003: 56.1 million despite and dedication to the delivery opened in Mexico during the bonded fibre technology for a challenging manufacturing of innovation, superior customer second half and volumes through products including pens and environment characterised by value and service.
this operation will build during printers, medical device rapid raw material cost increases, 2005.
In addition new warehousing components and household particularly in the second half Within fibre technologies, both arrangements were made in items.
The business continued of the year.
filters and Fibertec continued to Korea and Russia to improve its good growth, assisted by progress well.
We are now well supply chain performance.
the product volumes from the Filtrona now operates from placed to offer more complex The filters business continues to acquired facility in Switzerland.
38 production facilities in 14 and innovative technologies and benefit from increased consumer The construction of a new facility countries engaged in flexible light products to meet the changing demand for brands with low tar in Ningbo, China will come on manufacture and service oriented requirements of the international and special filters, often including stream in 2005 and product supply of low unit value items to fibre technology markets.
charcoal, driven by changing volumes are expected to grow 20 Bunzl plc progressively driven by enhanced Our Richmond facility was technology based joint venture penetration of the Asian market.
further expanded with the to develop an item level track Focus on the development of installation of a new six station and trace system for high new technologies, applications printing press such that it volume consumer goods and and geographic coverage now has full process capability document security.
Initial results continues to support the for servicing the increasingly are encouraging.
excellent growth of this business.
important market in the Americas.
Volumes of both Our protection and finishing The rapid escalation of raw standard and value-added products business continued its material prices was a key issue tear tape continued their strong positive development.
Robust facing plastic technology growth.
The use of printed tear organic growth in both Europe businesses during the year.
tape for brand promotion and and America was supplemented In spite of the challenge posed security purposes continues by a strong contribution from the by this trend, our businesses to develop.
The application newly acquired Skiffy which has developed very satisfactorily of extrusion coated films for enhanced our European market and we are well positioned security and industrial uses position.
Whilst rapid price for the future.
is showing encouraging results escalation in raw materials was and further investment in potentially a drag on performance, Our self-adhesive tear tape extrusion coated film process this was more than offset by business is the worlds leading and handling techniques improved underlying market supplier and made good has generated significant demand, better manufacturing progress in all regions in spite improvements in quality and efficiencies, further additions of adverse currency conditions.
We have formed a to the range, increased global sourcing and greater market Our geographic spread was of penetration.
The oil sector benefit once again with further Range extension Point of purchase Additions to our extensive Plastic extrusion profiles end-market continues to deliver good business growth in Mexico.
range of protection for supermarket display good results and a new contract and finishing products shelves in the Netherlands for supply into the Caspian Sea Globalpack, our Brazilian included air conditioning top right are part of our region will enhance performance operation which produces caps bottom right and internationally expanding in 2005. packaging for the South American the products supplied range of point of toiletries and cosmetics industries, by Skiffy, the European purchase products.
Improved trading conditions had another good year.
The business acquired in were sustained in our US and company continued to build March 2004 above.
its expertise in roll-on deodorant In Europe we continued to packaging and strong demand win new export business and for its tube product range has substantial growth opportunities generated the need for an remain.
In the US important new additional line for installation business was secured in retail early in 2005. and we achieved good growth in lighting, transportation, medical and recreational products.
The business continued to focus on unit cost reduction, proprietary products and differentiated process technologies.
21 Bunzl plc Directors The Board will appoint Christoph Sander as Chief Executive of Bunzl while Mark Harper will become Chief Executive of Filtrona on completion of the demerger.
From left to right: Jeff Harris # Age 56 15 years.
He became President in the US, the UK and Australia.
He Non-executive director since late 2003, Chief Executive Officer is now Chairman of the Aldi Family 2000, senior independent director in July 2004 and was appointed Trust which holds the majority of and Chairman of the Audit to the Board in December.
Appointed Finance Director of UniChem Plc in 1986 Charles Banks # Age 64 David Williams Age 59 and Chief Executive in 1992, he Non-executive director since 2002 Finance Director, having joined the became Chief Executive of the and Chairman of the Remuneration Group in 1991 in that role.
He was enlarged Alliance Unichem Plc Committee.
Previously Chief previously with Tootal Group PLC in 1997 and Chairman in 2001.
Executive of Ferguson Enterprises, where he held a number of He is a non-executive director the largest North American financial and operating positions of Anzag AG and Associated subsidiary of Wolseley plc, he including Group Finance Director.
joined the Board of Wolseley in He is a non-executive director of 1992 and was appointed Group George Wimpey Plc, where he Pat Larmon Age 52 Chief Executive in 2001. chairs the Audit Committee, and President and Chief Executive The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Officer of Outsourcing Services Ulrich Wolters Age 62 Navigation Company.
Having joined Non-executive director since July Bunzl in 1990 when Packaging 2004.
Formerly Managing Director Christoph Sander Age 43 Products Corporation, of which of Aldi Sd in Germany, he built Managing Director, Outsourcing he was an owner, was acquired, the business into one of the Services Europe & Australasia.
he has held various senior worlds leading retailers operating Having graduated from Harvard management positions over principally in Germany and Austria, with an MBA and after working 22 Bunzl plc for The Boston Consulting Group, Paul Heiden Age 48 Mark Harper Age 48 he joined Bunzl to oversee the Non-executive director since 1998.
Managing Director, Filtrona having development of Outsourcing Previously with Hanson plc, he joined Bunzl in 1986.
He has held Services in Europe from its joined Rolls-Royce plc in 1992, and a number of general management inception in 1993.
Appointed to became a director responsible for positions both in Europe and the the Board in July 2004, he will their Industrial Businesses in 1997 US before assuming responsibility become Chief Executive of the and Finance Director in 1999.
Appointed Group upon completion of the was appointed Chief Executive of to the Board in December 2004, demerger of Filtrona.
He will resign from he will resign upon completion of the Board upon completion of the the demerger to serve as Filtronas Anthony Habgood# Age 58 demerger of Filtrona.
Chairman since 1996, having joined as Chief Executive in 1991, Michael Roney Age 50 Alexander Pat Dyer Age 72 and Chairman of the Nomination Non-executive director since 2003.
A director of The After holding a number of senior having been Chairman from Boston Consulting Group from general management positions 1993.
Previously a director of 1977 to 1986, he was then within Goodyear throughout Latin Air Products and Chemicals Inc, appointed a director of Tootal America and then Asia, he became he joined The BOC Group plc in Group PLC, subsequently President of Goodyears Eastern 1989 and subsequently became Member of the Audit Committee becoming Chief Executive.
European, African and Middle Chief Executive and Deputy Member of the Remuneration He is a non-executive director Eastern businesses and is Chairman until his retirement Committee of SVG Capital plc and Marks presently President of Goodyears in 1996.
He will retire from the # Member of the Nomination Committee and Spencer Group plc.
Independent director 23 Bunzl plc Financial review Group performance of 32.0% 2003: 32.5% on the goodwill arising in the year Treasury policies and controls Sales increased by 7%, or 14% profit on underlying operations.
net of an amortisation charge Bunzl has a centralised treasury at constant exchange rates, to Including the impact of goodwill of 25.1 million.
department to control external 2,916.0 million with businesses amortisation the overall rate was borrowings and manage exchange acquired during the year 36.0% 2003: 35.5%.
The effective Cash flow rate risk and interest rate risk.
rate is higher than the nominal UK Net cash inflow from operating Treasury policies are approved This reflected good operating rate of 30.0% principally because activities was 220.0 million, a by the Board and cover the nature performance and underlying most of the Groups operations are 30.4 million decrease compared of the exposure to be hedged, the organic growth.
in countries with higher tax rates.
to 2003 due to an increase in types of financial instruments that working capital as a result of sales may be employed and the criteria Operating profit before goodwill Earnings and dividends growth and a return to a more for investing and borrowing cash.
amortisation increased by 8%, Earnings increased by 2%, or normal level of working capital The Group uses derivatives only or 16% at constant exchange rates, 10% at constant exchange rates, compared to the unusually low to manage its foreign currency to 230.8 million with businesses to 127.4 million.
The weighted level at 31 December 2003.
Gross and interest rate risks arising from acquired during the year average number of shares in issue capital expenditure of 46.2 million underlying business activities.
reduced to 443.0 million from was used to complete the building No transactions of a speculative A strong performance by both 455.2 million due to the share buy of new facilities in China and nature are undertaken.
The Outsourcing Services Europe back.
Earnings per share increased Mexico, expand and upgrade department is subject to periodic & Australasia and Filtrona was by 5%, or 13% at constant existing facilities and systems and independent reviews by the internal partly offset by an increase in exchange rates, to 28.7p.
After enhance the quality and capacity audit department.
Underlying Outsourcing Services North America adjusting for goodwill amortisation, of the asset base.
Sales of fixed policy assumptions and activities being more than eroded by earnings per share increased assets generated a cash inflow are reviewed by the executive unfavourable currency translation.
by 10%, or 18% at constant of 4.6 million resulting in a net directors.
Controls over exposure exchange rates, to 34.4p.
changes and transaction authenticity capital expenditure of 41.6 million.
The net interest charge increased are in place and dealings are An acquisition spend of 323.6 to 4.8 million from 1.8 million in An interim dividend of 4.15p per restricted to those banks with the million including assumed 2003 as a result of higher average share and a final proposed dividend relevant combination of geographic borrowings of 66.9 million borrowings and higher interest of 9.15p will deliver an increase presence and suitable credit rating.
and net disposal proceeds of rates.
of 10% for the year at a total cost The Group continually monitors the 8.0 million resulted in a net Debt rose during the year as a of 58.4 million, with dividend cover, credit ratings of its counterparties cash outflow of 315.6 million result of acquisitions and the share based on adjusted earnings per and credit exposure to each on acquisitions and disposals.
buy back and, using the year end share, at 2.6 times.
Net cash outflow before financing debt level as a base for calculating is to be transferred to reserves.
of 193.5 million, combined with interest, cover remains high at Liquidity risk a cash inflow from share issues 15 times.
Balance sheet The Groups objective is to of 4.9 million, a cash outflow Total assets less current liabilities maintain a balance between of 58.6 million for the share buy Group margin excluding goodwill increased by 87.4 million to continuity of funding and flexibility.
back and an exchange movement amortisation increased to 7.9% from 824.8 million.
This was largely The Group is funded by a US dollar of 5.4 million, resulted in a 308.7 7.8% in 2003.
While in Outsourcing accounted for by increased Bond and multi-currency credit million increase in net debt.
Services North America margin goodwill partly offset by lower facilities from the Groups bankers.
slipped from 7.7% to 7.5%, in short term deposits and higher The US dollar Bond, originally Pensions Outsourcing Services Europe & short term debt.
Group return issued during 2001, is in three At 31 December 2004, the Groups Australasia margin increased to on average capital before goodwill tranches: 5 years, 7 years and FRS17 pension liabilities were 7.7% from 7.1% due to 10 years for a total of $225 million amortisation increased to 46.8% 48.3 million, a 7.5 million increase improvements in the base business at fixed rates of interest.
Net debt increased compared to 2003, due to an and the benefit of mix, driven by facilities have tenures ranging by 308.7 million to 405.2 million improvement in the asset base acquisitions.
Filtronas margin from one year to five years and due to acquisition spend of 323.6 being more than offset by increased remained constant at 12.4%.
mature between 2005 and 2009. million and the share buy back of liabilities as a consequence of a fall At 31 December 2004, the 58.6 million including expenses.
Currency translation had a net available bank facilities totalled Shareholders funds increased by adverse impact in the year primarily 842.1 million of which 335.9 69.0 million of retained profit, UITF38 Accounting for due to the weakening of the million was drawn down.
In which was more than offset by ESOP trusts US dollar against sterling.
This addition the Group maintains the share buy back of 58.6 million During the year the Group translation effect is the major way uncommitted and overdraft facilities and other movements totalling adopted UITF38.
As a result, that currency impacts the Group to maintain short term flexibility.
14.3 million, resulting in a net comparative figures have although there is also a small decrease of 3.9 million to 428.1 been restated.
There was no transaction effect on certain Foreign currency risk million.
Gearing increased from impact on the consolidated profit parts of the business.
The majority of the Groups net 22.3% to 94.6%.
for the year to 31 December 2003 assets are in currencies other than and the impact on consolidated Tax sterling.
The Groups policy is to Goodwill shareholders funds at The tax charge of 72.3 million limit the translation exposure and This increased by 250.4 million 31 December 2003 was represents an effective tax rate resulting impact on shareholders to 541.3 million reflecting a reduction of 27.2 million.
24 Bunzl plc Exchange rates Return on average operating capital % Average 2004 2003 2004 2003 US$ : 1.82 1.64 Outsourcing Services : 1.47 1.44 North America 80.0 83.1 Europe & Australasia 55.0 47.4 Year end 67.1 66.9 US$ : 1.92 1.79 : 1.41 1.42 Filtrona 27.4 26.7 funds by borrowing in those a benefit of approximately 18 currencies in which the Group million.
The Group operates equity has significant net assets and by settled, share based compensation using forward foreign exchange plans.
Under IFRS, the fair value contracts.
At 31 December 2004 of share based compensation is there were no material currency recognised as an expense and will exposures after accounting for the be spread evenly over the vesting effect of the hedging transactions.
The impact on operating Throughout the year, the Groups profit in 2004 would have been borrowings were primarily held a reduction of approximately in sterling, euros and US dollars.
Some other one-off The Group does not hedge the items relating predominately to fixed translation effect of exchange asset carrying values would have rate movements on the profit resulted in a one-off 3 million and loss account.
reduction in operating profit in 2004.
There is expected to be The majority of the Groups a small favourable impact of IFRS transactions are carried out in the on the consolidated balance sheet.
functional currency of the Groups During 2003 the Group adopted operations and so transaction FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
However The difference in treatment of this where they do occur the Groups Standard and IFRS is negligible.
policy is to hedge exposures as soon as they are committed using US Sarbanes-Oxley Act forward foreign exchange contracts.
As a foreign registrant with the Securities and Exchange Interest rate risk Commission, the Group will The Groups strategy is to ensure be required to assess and report with a reasonable amount of on the effectiveness of internal certainty that the overall Group financial controls for the first time interest charge is protected against for the year ending 31 December material adverse movements in 2005.
In order to achieve this the interest rates.
The majority of the Group has established a steering US dollar Bond was swapped to committee and a detailed project floating rates during 2001.
Interest plan which requires the Group to rate caps are in place to reduce document and test internal financial the Groups floating rate exposure controls and to adopt a recognised to movements in LIBOR.
Progress towards completion of the project International Financial Reporting is proceeding satisfactorily.
Standards The Group will be required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards and International Accounting Standards endorsed by the EU together IFRS from 1 January 2005 with the interim results for 2005 being the first results reported under IFRS.
The main areas of impact on the consolidated profit and loss account will be in respect of goodwill amortisation and share based payments.
Under IFRS goodwill will no longer be amortised but will be subject to impairment testing at least annually and intangible assets will be amortised, resulting in an expected overall reduction to the amortisation charge.
The impact on operating profit in 2004 would have been 25 Bunzl plc Corporate social responsibility The Board takes the area of social improvement in health and safety a poster campaign was launched 200 4500 responsibility seriously and has for performance.
Bunzl seeks to in 2004 and in some businesses 195 4000 many years had policies with respect identify and share best practice 190 voluntary well-being checks have 3500 185 to business standards, health, across its businesses.
ITC Filtrona 180 3000 safety and the environment.
While Health and Safety Committee, became the first Bunzl company 175 2500 the Board does not believe that which was established in 1993, 170 to gain OHSAS 18001:1999 2000 165 the Company has a high risk profile comprises representatives from International Standard for 160 1500 with regard to health, safety and each business area and is Average Average Occupational Health and 2003 2004 the environment, it believes that responsible to the Board for Safety Management Systems.
Monthly incidence rate Monthly severity rate positive actions with respect to reviewing the Groups health social responsibility are not only and safety policy and agreeing Employees desirable in their own right but are standards and objectives for the The incidence rate has reduced Bunzl remains committed to the also of potential economic and Group worldwide as well as auditing significantly and the severity rate recruitment of high quality staff commercial benefit to the Group.
health and safety performance is also showing a downward trend.
and developing them within the Bunzl is a member of the against those objectives.
However, unfortunately this year businesses to provide excellent FTSE4Good index.
The Technical Sub-Committee there have been two fatalities performance and take on more comprises in-house health and one employee and one member responsibility.
This is achieved Bunzls corporate social responsibility safety professionals who review of the public both involving road by a combination of structured policy provides a reference point a range of detailed safety issues accidents in the US.
Group management development to guide stakeholders, including all and implement the health and programmes, specific skills training employees, on the elements that safety programmes worldwide.
A new health and safety audit within respective businesses, drive the conduct of the business process has been developed.
performance management and relationships with the world At the beginning of 2004 five Advice was sought from the Health processes and the provision in which the Company operates.
Group level objectives were and Safety Executive who reviewed of challenging and responsible The overall policy is made up of identified: the new process and gave roles.
The Group aims to provide seven underlying policies covering identification, collation and positive comment.
The process opportunities to employees and the following areas: Standards of consolidation of comparable concentrates more on identification strives to promote from within business conduct Code of ethics, accident data from all sites: of best practice rather than pure whenever appropriate.
This was Health and safety, Employees, achievement of an overall compliance.
The new audit has evidenced in 2004 with the Customers, Environment, Suppliers reduction in incident and been piloted in a number of sites appointment of Pat Larmon, and Community.
Further details severity rates: throughout the Group.
It is an internal candidate, as Chief of the policies are available on the completion of a revised safety intended to launch it throughout Executive Officer of Outsourcing Companys website, www.
audit process: the Group during 2005 and it is Services North America.
identification of suitable industry expected that the new process will New graduates continue to be Standards of business conduct norms for benchmarking: and provide further impetus to improve recruited into the businesses in the Code of ethics identification of initiatives to standards across the Group.
US and UK and have a successful The Group has standards of drive greater ownership of structured training programme business conduct which were personal safety.
A number of international to enhance their development.
established over 10 years ago and companies have been approached have been updated in the meantime, The varying methods of recording on an informal basis to benchmark Appropriate and well-timed most recently in 2004.
The data within the different countries and to exchange views and issues communication to and from standards set out the behaviour in which the Group operates means regarding consolidating accident employees is essential in ensuring expected of each Bunzl employee that comparison and consolidation reporting across a group.
the effectiveness of the business.
and cover the areas of conflicts of of data has historically proved to Outsourcing Services North The European Information and interest, compliance with laws, rules be challenging.
Over the past year, America has continued to Consultation Forums continue and regulations, dealing in Bunzl the Group Health and Safety benchmark itself against OSHA to meet to provide information shares, protection of confidential Committee has focused on ensuring incident rate statistics for General to, and to consult with, elected information, protection and proper that comparable data is available Warehousing and Storage employee representatives on use of company assets, relationships within each of the business areas.
The performance Group and business area policies, with customers, suppliers and The biggest area of difference has against this benchmark remains strategy and performance.
During employees, compliance with the been identified as the different favourable.
The Company 2004 a number of UK businesses Code and reporting of unethical statutory reporting requirements is continuing to improve the have implemented formalised behaviour.
Business area heads are between the US and the UK.
benchmarking process in 2005. information and consultation responsible for implementation of arrangements to supplement the the standards.
Group compliance The two indices measured at A variety of initiatives have been European Forums and to ensure is monitored annually.
During 2004 Group level are: incidence rate, undertaken to increase the better employee involvement no incidents of non-compliance reflecting the total number of ownership of personal safety.
In addition have been recorded.
accidents incidents which involve has included improved induction a number of businesses have lost time and severity rate, training, refresher training on safety undertaken employee attitude Health and safety reflecting the number of days matters for warehouse managers surveys.
This has resulted in The Group has a long-standing lost or restricted as the result of and a variety of face-to-face and a better understanding of the commitment to achieving continual accidents or work-related ill health.
In addition workforce and a number of 26 Bunzl plc Incidence rate number of incidents per 100,000 employees Severity rate number of days lost per 100,000 employees changes have been made as a Environment virtually complete and this will receive feedback on services and result.
A magazine, Bunzl World, Bunzl has continued its focus assist in 2005 in the collation of goods received.
As previously continues to be produced and on the environmental aspects Group environmental data.
In 2005 mentioned certain businesses have distributed around the Group, of its operations.
The following we should for the first time be able attained SA 8000:2001 certification.
notifying employees of major objectives were set for 2004: to provide objective measures The certification process has led business successes, acquisitions implementation of environmental of performance in the key to more structured processes for and appointments.
This is management systems environmental areas identified.
improving standards, not only supplemented locally by a variety compatible with ISO 14001 to within Bunzls businesses, but of newsletters, briefings and include targets for environmental A number of initiatives are continuing also within suppliers.
intranet communication giving improvement, monitoring of which have a positive environmental more specific information related performance and auditing: benefit.
For example, the extrusion Community to the business or site where improved data collection and process used in Filtrona is the Bunzl is a member of Business an employee is based.
understanding of the key drivers biggest single user of water and in the Community in the UK and of the data: and some plants have already at Group level has continued to Within Filtrona, Globalpack in Brazil monitoring environmental converted to enclosed cooling support a cross section of projects and ITC Filtrona in India have already performance at Group level by systems to reduce both water within registered charities in the attained SA 8000:2001 certification.
means of the following measures: usage and effluent.
Throughout fields of healthcare, education, Our Indonesian businesses achieved energy usage, water consumption, Outsourcing Services there is a disability and children.
In 2004 accreditation in early 2005 and our raw material consumption and continued focus on route planning Bunzl continued to sponsor Jordanian business is also working waste production.
and transport management as well projects relating to cancer towards accreditation.
as other measures to reduce fuel research through Children with ISO 14001 was attained by consumption and emissions to the Leukaemia research into the Customers Outsourcing Services Ireland and, air.
Electricity gas consumption development of a test for children The Groups business and by the end of 2004, a further nine continues to be reduced by being treated for leukaemia that livelihood depends upon its sites had received accreditation.
investment in new compressors will enable doctors to tailor further customers.
Every employee Much work has also been undertaken and drive motors and installation treatments to their precise and is responsible for ensuring that by those operations as yet of power saving devices and individual needs and research into any contact with customers unaccredited, many of which should lighting.
Balers at many sites prostate breast cancer treatment and the public at large reflects gain accreditation by early to mid achieved a significant improvement being undertaken by Imperial professionalism, efficiency and 2005.
The following chart shows in the amount of waste going to College London.
During 2004, as has the significant progress made over landfill.
More waste segregation was provided to Queen Elizabeths been the practice for some the past few years in implementing programmes have been introduced.
Training College, providing years, a number of businesses environmental management Wherever possible reusable whiteboards and PCs for use in Outsourcing Services and systems in the businesses.
The across the various courses within Filtrona undertook formal amount of packaging is reduced, the college, with the aim of customer surveys to measure Sites achieving ISO 14001 wherever feasible, to the minimum training disabled people to return their customer service necessary consistent with adequate to or start work, and to the 80 performance and rectify any product protection.
In the UK, the Royal National Institute for the issues identified.
In addition, 60 Group is a member of Valpak who Blind College providing laptop senior management meet key discharge the relevant obligations computers for students on work 40 customers on an ad hoc basis under the Producer Responsibility placements.
In addition Group to ensure understanding of their 20 Packaging Waste Regulations.
companies and individual service requirements and gain In Germany, the Group is a member employees worldwide continue to 0 their perceptions on how these of Duales System Deutschland support local charitable initiatives.
who operate the Green Dot Outsourcing Services North The quality of the operations These sites, which are shown on a recycling system.
America has for many years raised and service is key and many cumulative basis, now employ over money for the Queen of Peace sites, which on an aggregate 50% of staff within the Group.
Suppliers Center which assists homeless, basis employ over 50% of staff Bunzl regards suppliers as partners mentally ill and chemically addicted in the Group, have attained ISO An Environmental Technical and works with them to help achieve families with treatment, day care, 9001:2000 accreditation.
Committee comprising policy aspirations in the delivery of housing and jobs.
A number A number of customers have representatives from all parts of products and services.
Specifically of Filtrona companies have recognised the quality of service the Group has been working with the Group is committed to working also been supporting their local during 2004 and a number Filtrona IT specialists and external with its suppliers of products and communities.
In Indonesia of awards have been received consultants to build an integrated services to ensure that the welfare the business in Surabaya has including: Outsourcing Services web-based Health, Safety and of workers and labour conditions pledged funds to build a new North America which was named Environment tool which is within the supply chain meet or classroom at a local school, by Golbon and Select Marketing universally acceptable and exceed recognised standards.
while employees from ITC Filtrona as their Suppliers of the Year and adds value to the environmental Within Outsourcing Services in India work regularly with children Alliance Plastics which gained the management programme both management regularly meet in local schools encouraging Premier Supplier Award from at subsidiary and Group level.
with suppliers to ensure mutual education and spreading Manchester Tank.
The environmental module is now understanding and to give and environmental awareness.
Number of sites covered 27 Bunzl plc Summary financial statement Summary directors report Principal activities and the Company or any of its operations are devolved and the developments subsidiary undertakings during Group benefits from the presence The principal activities of the Group or at the end of 2004. of strong senior line management are set out on pages 2 and 3. in those operations.
The Deputy The Chairmans Statement, Dividends Chairman, Mr A P Dyer, is a the Operating Review and the An interim dividend of 4.15p was former Chairman of the Company.
Financial Review on pages 4 to 21 paid in respect of the year and Mr J F Harris has been designated and 24 and 25 give details of the the directors recommend a final as the senior independent Groups activities, developments dividend of 9.15p, making a total non-executive director.
The current and performance for the year for the year of 13.3p.
This compares arrangement is temporary in that and an indication of likely future with 12.1p for the year ended the Board has decided that with developments.
31 December 2003. effect from the completion of the proposed demerger of Filtrona, Directors Corporate governance referred to in the Chairmans Dr U Wolters, Mr C P Sander, The Company is committed Statement on page 4, it will appoint Mr M J Harper and Mr P L Larmon to high standards of corporate Mr C P Sander as Chief Executive were appointed to the Board after governance.
The Company of the Company.
The Boards firm the Annual General Meeting in 2004 confirms that, with the exception view is that the Group does not and, being eligible, offer themselves of provision A.
2.1 relating to the currently suffer from a damaging for re-election at the forthcoming roles of Chairman and Chief concentration of power and is well Annual General Meeting in Executive discussed below, it has protected from such a possibility.
accordance with the Articles of complied throughout 2004 with the Furthermore, it believes that the Association.
Mr A P Dyer, who provisions of the Code.
It should present arrangements are in the has been a director since 1993 be noted that it is the Boards best interests of the business and will retire at the end of 2005, intention that the roles of Chairman and of shareholders at this time.
offers himself for re-election at and Chief Executive will be the forthcoming Annual General separated at the time of the Annual General Meeting Meeting in accordance with proposed demerger of Filtrona The Annual General Meeting will the provisions of the Combined scheduled for June 2005. be held at The Selfridge Hotel, Code on Corporate Governance Orchard Street, London W1H 6JS the Code.
Mr P G Lorenzini and The Chairman, Mr A J Habgood, on Wednesday 18 May 2005 at Mr S G Williams retired from the has continued to act in the 11.00 am.
The notice convening Board on 31 July and 31 August capacity of Chief Executive.
The the Meeting is set out in a separate 2004 respectively.
All of the other Board recognises the concerns, letter from the Chairman to directors, who are named on pages expressed in a general context, shareholders which explains 22 and 23 of the Annual Review about the possible negative effects the items of special business.
and Summary Financial Statement, of a concentration of power served throughout the year.
through a combined Chairman and Auditors Chief Executive role but believes A resolution is to be proposed at Mr D M Williams and Mr P Heiden these do not presently apply to the the Annual General Meeting for the retire by rotation at the Annual Company for a variety of reasons.
re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc General Meeting in accordance The Board has a majority of as auditors of the Company at with the Articles of Association non-executive directors and, a rate of remuneration to be and, being eligible, offer themselves in compliance with the Code, determined by the directors.
Mr P Heiden, who excluding the Chairman half of the has been a director since 1998, Board comprises independent will subsequently resign from the non-executive directors who P N Hussey Board upon completion of the constitute the entire membership Secretary demerger of Filtrona.
of the Audit and Remuneration 28 February 2005 Committees and represent Directors interests in ordinary a majority of the Nomination shares are shown in Note 21 to Committee.
None of the the financial statements in the Companys non-executive directors Directors Report and Accounts.
had any previous connection with None of the directors was the Company or its executive materially interested in any directors on appointment to the contract of significance with Board.
In addition, the Groups 28 Bunzl plc Summary remuneration policy The Companys current is set after taking account of The Group operates a Long Term from the Company and six months remuneration policy for 2005 and performance, relevant external Incentive Plan under which the notice from the executive.
beyond is designed to help ensure survey data and the general executive directors and other The non-executive directors the recruitment, retention and movement of base pay within senior executives in the Group do not have service contracts.
motivation of the executive the Group.
may be granted options or awards directors by providing fair reward in respect of performance shares.
Directors emoluments for 2004 for the responsibilities they Annual bonus plan Participation in the Plan is at the The directors aggregate undertake and the performance The executive directors participate discretion of the Committee.
emoluments for 2004 were they achieve on behalf of in an annual bonus plan intended The Committee reviews biannually 3.6 million, the aggregate amount shareholders.
In this context, the to support the Companys overall the level of grant taking account of of gains made by directors on the Remuneration Committees policy remuneration policy.
The bonus each executives performance and exercise of share options during is to set the overall remuneration plan for each executive director job responsibilities.
Annual grants the year was 0.3 million, the package at a competitive level and contains meaningful targets that of share options may not exceed aggregate market value of awards in a form that permits significant seek to focus attention on one or an amount equal to three times exercised by directors under long additional remuneration to be two key measures of short to base salary.
In normal circumstances term incentive schemes during earned for high performance over medium term achievement.
Half of options granted are exercisable, the year was 0.4 million and the a sustained period.
This is normally this annual bonus is normally paid subject to satisfaction of the aggregate amount of contributions achieved by benchmarking base in cash and the balance but with relevant performance condition, paid by the Company to money pay against comparator companies the total aggregate amount after three years with no provision purchase pension schemes in and a range of factors, including capped is deferred under the rules for retesting, not earlier than three respect of the directors was performance, and by providing, of the DASBS.
years and not later than 10 years 5,000.
Four directors participate in addition, short and long term after the date of grant.
Annual in defined benefit pension incentives geared to performance.
Under the DASBS, eligible awards of performance shares schemes, one of whom also executives, including the executive may not exceed an amount participates in a money purchase In assessing the balance directors, receive the deferred equal to two times base salary.
A further director of performance related and element of their annual bonus A performance share award participates in a personal money non-performance related elements as an award of ordinary shares.
will normally vest i. e. become purchase pension scheme to which of remuneration, base pay The ordinary shares are transferred exercisable on the third the Company contributes.
and benefits are treated as to the executive on 1 March in the anniversary of its grant to non-performance related, whereas third year after the year in which the extent that the applicable Total shareholder return annual bonus including awards the award is made, provided performance condition has been 150 under the Deferred Annual Share normally the executive has satisfied, with no provision for Bunzl Bonus Scheme DASBS and remained in the employment of the retesting, and will remain capable 125 long term incentives are treated Group throughout that period or of being exercised for the three 100 as performance related.
For this until their normal retirement date.
year period following the date FTSE Support purpose, share options and on which it vests.
75 Services Sector performance shares are valued Share based incentives 50 at an appropriate proportion of The Remuneration Committee Retirement benefits 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 their face value on grant or award.
believes that the long term The Group utilises both defined STh D Source: Datastream On this basis, the Committee performance of the Group is benefit and defined contribution sets the remuneration package an important consideration for pension schemes throughout such that about half the total shareholders and that share based the world.
All principal defined The Companys total shareholder target remuneration package incentives are an important part benefit schemes are closed return over the last five years is derived from the performance of helping to align the interests of to new entrants who are now compared to that of the FTSE related elements.
shareholders and those employed offered a defined contribution Support Services Sector is shown by the Group.
A fuller representation of the Base pay welcomes the fact that each of the directors are eligible to participate Companys total shareholder return The base pay of each executive long-standing executive directors in the relevant pension scheme relative to this Sector can be found director is set to reflect the size currently has a meaningful holding or may choose to participate in the Chairmans Statement on and scope of that directors of Bunzl shares.
During the year in a private pension scheme.
page 4. responsibilities undertaken on a formal share ownership guideline behalf of the Board, the level was introduced under which Service contracts of overall performance achieved executive directors will be It is the Companys policy that and experience in the post.
It is expected over a period of time executive directors are normally benchmarked against comparator to retain a shareholding worth at employed on contracts that companies and the actual pay level least equal to their basic salaries.
provide for 12 months notice 29 Bunzl plc Summary financial statement continued Consolidated profit and loss account Summary consolidated balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2004 at 31 December 2004 2003 2004 2003 2004 Restated Notes m m m m Sales Intangible assets goodwill 541.3 290.9 Existing businesses 2,695.6 2,728.2 Tangible assets 218.4 196.5 Acquisitions 220.4 Fixed assets 759.7 487.4 Total sales 1 2,916.0 2,728.2 Current assets 851.4 749.1 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 786.3 499.1 Operating profit Net current assets 65.1 250.0 Existing businesses 193.4 196.4 Total assets less current liabilities 824.8 737.4 Acquisitions 12.3 Creditors: amounts falling due Profit on ordinary activities after more than one year 297.8 220.2 before interest 1 205.7 196.4 Provisions for liabilities and charges 46.9 41.6 Net interest payable 2 4.8 1.8 Net assets excluding pension liabilities 480.1 475.6 Profit on ordinary activities Pension liabilities 48.3 40.8 before taxation 200.9 194.6 Net assets including pension liabilities 431.8 434.8 Profit before taxation and goodwill amortisation 226.0 212.3 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 112.5 112.1 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 3 72.3 69.0 Share premium and other reserves 315.6 319.9 Profit on ordinary activities Shareholders funds: equity interests 428.1 432.0 after taxation 128.6 125.6 Minority equity interests 3.7 2.8 Profit attributable to minorities 1.2 1.0 431.8 434.8 Profit for the financial year 127.4 124.6 Dividends 4 58.4 54.4 Restated on adoption of UITF38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
Retained profit for the financial year 69.0 70.2 Approved by the Board of Directors of Bunzl plc on 28 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by Mr A J Habgood, Chairman and Basic earnings per share 5 28.7p 27.4p Mr D M Williams, Finance Director.
Adjusted earnings per share 5 34.4p 31.3p Diluted basic earnings per share 5 28.6p 27.2p Dividends per share 4 13.3p 12.1p Sales and operating profit are from continuing operations.
30 Bunzl plc Consolidated statement of total Summary consolidated recognised gains and losses cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m Notes m m Profit for the financial year 127.4 124.6 Net cash inflow from Actuarial loss gain on pension schemes 13.3 0.9 operating activities 6 220.0 250.4 Deferred taxation on actuarial loss gain Net cash outflow for returns on on pension schemes 4.0 0.4 investments and servicing of finance 3.6 4.7 Revaluation reserve movement 1.3 Tax paid 65.2 56.6 Currency translation differences on foreign Net cash outflow for capital expenditure 41.6 31.3 currency net investments 0.4 1.5 Acquisition of businesses 256.7 36.1 Disposal of businesses 8.0 10.0 Total recognised gains and losses for the year 117.2 123.6 Equity dividends paid 54.4 51.8 Net cash outflow inflow before use of liquid resources and financing 193.5 79.9 Management of liquid resources 57.6 57.4 Net cash inflow outflow from financing 120.6 98.1 Consolidated reconciliation of Decrease increase in cash in the financial year 15.3 39.2 Reconciliation of net cash flow movements in shareholders funds to movement in net debt Decrease increase in cash for the year ended 31 December 2004 in the financial year 15.3 39.2 2003 Increase in debt due within one year 150.0 8.3 2004 Restated Increase decrease in debt due after one year 24.5 21.1 m m Decrease in current asset investments 57.6 57.4 Borrowings acquired 66.9 Opening shareholders funds as Exchange and other movements 5.6 14.9 previously reported 459.2 475.2 Prior year adjustment adoption of UITF38 27.2 19.2 Movement in net debt in the financial year 308.7 9.5 Opening shareholders funds restated 432.0 456.0 Opening net debt 96.5 106.0 Profit for the financial year 127.4 124.6 Dividends 58.4 54.4 Closing net debt 7 405.2 96.5 Issue of share capital 4.9 7.0 Employee trust shares 9.0 8.0 Actuarial loss gain net of deferred taxation on pension schemes 9.3 0.5 Purchase of own shares 58.6 92.2 Summary US GAAP information Revaluation reserve movement 1.3 Currency translation 0.4 1.5 for the year ended 31 December 2004 Closing shareholders funds 428.1 432.0 2004 2003 Restated on adoption of UITF38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
2004 2003 2 Net interest payable m m Interest receivable Bank deposits 9.0 7.7 9.0 7.7 Interest payable Bank loans and overdrafts 9.1 3.2 Other loans 4.1 4.2 13.2 7.4 Other finance costs Expected return on pension scheme assets 16.0 12.7 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 16.6 14.8 0.6 2.1 Total net interest payable 4.8 1.8 3 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities A taxation charge of 32.0% 2003: 32.5% on the profit on underlying operations excluding goodwill amortisation has been provided based on the estimated effective rate of taxation for the year.
Including goodwill amortisation, on which there is no tax relief, the overall tax rate is 36.0% 2003: 35.5%.
The 2004 interim dividend paid was 18.5m, 0.4m lower than the amount proposed of 18.9m due to the impact of the Company purchasing its own shares.
2004 2003 5 Earnings per share m m Profit for the financial year 127.4 124.6 Adjustment 25.1 17.7 Adjusted profit for the financial year 152.5 142.3 Basic weighted average ordinary shares in issue million 443.0 455.2 Dilutive effect of employee share plans million 1.7 2.2 Diluted weighted average ordinary shares million 444.7 457.4 Basic earnings per share 28.7p 27.4p Adjustment 5.7p 3.9p Adjusted earnings per share 34.4p 31.3p Diluted basic earnings per share 28.6p 27.2p Adjusted earnings per share is provided to reflect the underlying earnings performance of the Group.
The adjustment relates to goodwill amortisation.
2004 2003 6 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities m m Operating profit 205.7 196.4 Adjustments for non-cash items: depreciation 33.0 32.5 goodwill amortisation 25.1 17.7 other 0.6 1.0 Working capital movement 25.2 17.9 Employee trust shares 9.8 8.8 Other cash movements 9.4 6.3 Net cash inflow from operating activities 220.0 250.4 2004 2003 7 Analysis of net debt m m Cash at bank and in hand 78.4 47.5 Short term deposits repayable on demand 8.8 32.0 Overdrafts 43.2 20.5 Cash 44.0 59.0 Debt due within one year 179.0 17.4 Debt due after one year 289.0 217.2 Finance leases 1.7 0.2 469.7 234.8 Short term deposits not repayable on demand 20.5 79.3 Net debt 405.2 96.5 33 Bunzl plc Statement of the independent auditors to the members of Bunzl plc pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the Basis of opinion Summary Financial Statement We conducted our work in on pages 28 to 33. accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The Auditors Statement on the This statement is made solely Summary Financial Statement to the Companys members, as issued by the Auditing Practices a body, in accordance with Section Board for use in the United 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our report on the Groups Our work has been undertaken full financial statements describes so that we might state to the the basis of our audit opinion on Companys members those those financial statements.
matters we are required to state to them in such a statement Opinion and for no other purpose.
To the In our opinion the Summary fullest extent permitted by the law, Financial Statement is consistent we do not accept or assume with the full financial statements, responsibility to anyone other than the Directors Report and the the Company and the Companys Directors Remuneration Report members as a body, for our work, of Bunzl plc for the year ended for this statement or for the 31 December 2004 and complies opinions we have formed.
with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Respective responsibilities Act 1985 and the regulations made of directors and auditors thereunder.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Summary KPMG Audit Plc Financial Statement in accordance Chartered Accountants with applicable United Kingdom Registered Auditor law.
Our responsibility is to report London to you our opinion on the 28 February 2005 consistency of the Summary The auditors have issued an unqualified report Financial Statement within the on the full financial statements containing no Annual Review and Summary statement under Sections 237 2 or 237 3 Financial Statement with the full of the Companies Act 1985. financial statements, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
34 Bunzl plc Summary five year review 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Sales Continuing operations 2,916.0 2,728.2 2,673.6 2,558.3 2,182.4 Discontinued operations 161.7 318.2 321.2 Total sales 2,916.0 2,728.2 2,835.3 2,876.5 2,503.6 Operating profit Continuing operations 205.7 196.4 189.0 186.6 165.1 Discontinued operations 7.4 14.9 19.7 Total operating profit 205.7 196.4 196.4 201.5 184.8 Exceptional items 4.1 2.3 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 205.7 196.4 200.5 201.5 187.1 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 200.9 194.6 195.3 190.2 179.5 Profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 226.0 212.3 207.3 203.0 184.3 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 128.6 125.6 125.3 118.9 112.7 Profit for the financial year 127.4 124.6 124.8 118.5 112.1 Basic earnings per share 28.7p 27.4p 27.1p 25.8p 24.6p Adjusted earnings per share 34.4p 31.3p 29.7p 28.6p 26.0p Dividends per share 13.3p 12.1p 11.2p 10.35p 9.4p 35 Bunzl plc Shareholder information Financial calendar 2005 Registered office 110 Park Street Annual General Meeting 18 May London W1K 6NX Results for the half year to 30 June 2005 30 August Telephone 020 7495 4950 Fax 020 7495 4953 2006 Website www.
com Size of holding Number of shareholders % of issued share capital 0 10,000 5,609 2 Auditors KPMG Audit Plc 10,001 100,000 433 3 100,001 500,000 192 10 Stockbrokers 500,001 1,000,000 53 8 JPMorgan Cazenove 1,000,001 and over 75 77 Citigroup 6,362 100 The Annual Review and Summary 110 Park Street, London W1K 6NX Financial Statement does not contain or from the Companys website sufficient information to allow a full www.
Shareholders understanding of the results of the may elect in writing to receive Group and state of affairs of the the Directors Report and Accounts Company or the Group.
For further in addition to the Annual Review information the Directors Report and Summary Financial Statement and Accounts which includes the for all future years.
The full accounts full Directors Remuneration Report for 2003 have been filed at Companies should be consulted.
Copies of House and the full accounts the Directors Report and Accounts for 2004 will be filed after they may be obtained, free of charge, have been approved at the Annual from the Secretary, Bunzl plc, General Meeting.
36 Bunzl plc Bunzl operates in two distinct business areas: Outsourcing Services and Filtrona.
Designed and produced by Sheppard Day Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Bunzl plc 110 Park Street London W1K 6NX T 020 7495 4950 F 020 7495 4953 W www.
