Accounting policies a Basis of preparation tangible fixed assets is calculated by reference to the carrying values The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost of the assets.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are periodically convention as modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets and certain reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances forward foreign exchange contracts and have been prepared in accordance indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing j Depreciation with items which are considered material in relation to the Groups financial Tangible fixed assets are depreciated over their estimated remaining useful statements, except as noted in paragraph c below.
lives at the following annual rates applied to book value less estimated residual value: b Basis of consolidation 2% or life of The consolidated financial statements incorporate the assets and liabilities Buildings lease if shorter of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2004 Plant and machinery 10 20% and their results for the periods during 2004 in which they were part Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10 33% of the Group.
The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Freehold land 0% c Change of accounting policy During the year the Group adopted UITF38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
Useful lives are reviewed annually.
The depreciation rate for certain As a result, comparative figures have been restated.
There was no impact equipment has increased from 25% to 33% to reflect more accurately on the consolidated profit for the year to 31 December 2003.
The impact the useful lives of the relevant assets.
of reallocating the investments in own shares to reserves as at 31 December 2003 has resulted in a reduction to the consolidated shareholders k Leases funds of 27.2m.
The impact on shareholders funds of the Company Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership as at 31 December 2003 was a reduction of 26.8m.
of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Future installments payable under finance leases, net of finance charges, d Goodwill are included in creditors with the corresponding asset value treated Goodwill arising on acquisitions made after 31 December 1997 is capitalised as a tangible fixed asset.
All other leases are treated as operating leases and is amortised on a straight line basis through the profit and loss and the rentals are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight account over its estimated useful life, a period of up to 20 years.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made prior to 1 January 1998 remains eliminated against reserves.
In determining the profit or loss on disposal l Deferred taxation of a business, any goodwill on acquisition, net of goodwill eliminated The Group provides for deferred taxation assets and liabilities arising through the profit and loss account as a result of any impairment from certain timing differences between the recognition of gains and in value or by amortisation, is transferred to the profit and loss reserve losses in the financial statements and their recognition for tax purposes.
through the profit and loss account.
Deferred taxation assets are only recognised where it is more likely than not that they will be recovered except as otherwise required by FRS19.
e Investments in subsidiary undertakings Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less any provision m Sales for impairment.
Sales are net sales invoiced to third parties for services provided and goods sold, excluding intercompany transactions and sales taxes.
f Investment in own shares Income from the sale of goods and services is recognised when delivery The cost of shares held either directly treasury shares or indirectly has occurred and where the price is fixed or determinable and reflects ESOP trust is deducted from shareholders funds.
the commercial substance of the transaction.
g Share awards to employees n Stocks Where applicable, share awards to employees under the Companys Stocks are valued at the lower of cost on a first in, first out basis incentive plans are charged to the profit and loss account over a three and net realisable value.
For work-in-progress and finished goods, year period.
cost includes an appropriate proportion of labour and overheads.
h Foreign currencies o Pension benefits The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings have been translated into In accordance with FRS17, for defined contribution schemes, sterling at average exchange rates.
Assets and liabilities denominated contributions are charged to the profit and loss account in the period in foreign currencies have been translated at year end exchange rates, in which they arise.
except where a forward foreign exchange contract has been arranged when the contracted rate is used.
For defined benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service cost, past service cost and gains and losses Exchange differences on the retranslation of opening net worth in overseas on settlements and curtailments.
An amount which represents the subsidiary undertakings, net of related foreign currency borrowings and expected increase in the present value of scheme liabilities net of the foreign currency hedging contracts together with differences arising from the expected return on scheme assets is included within net interest payable.
use of average and year end exchange rates, have been taken to reserves.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
These consist of differences Forward foreign exchange contracts hedging transaction exposures are between actual and expected returns on scheme assets during the year, revalued at year end exchange rates with net unrealised gains and losses experience losses on scheme liabilities and the impact of any changes being taken to the profit and loss reserve.
Pension liabilities are recognised on the consolidated balance sheet and represent the difference between the market value i Tangible fixed assets of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities at the balance Until 31 December 1999 land and buildings were revalued periodically.
sheet date, net of deferred taxation.
Scheme liabilities are determined As permitted under FRS15, the valuations of land and buildings have on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted not been and will not be updated.
All other assets are included at historical at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on AA rated cost, less accumulated depreciation.
The profit or loss on sale of corporate bonds.
