NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Accounting policies The consolidated financial information has been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the revaluation of certain fixed assets, and in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the UK.
The principal accounting policies are: a Turnover Turnover, which is stated excluding VAT and other sales taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
Wholesale sales are recognised when goods are despatched to trade customers, with provisions made for expected returns and allowances as necessary.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates of transactions with consumers, in addition provisions are made for expected returns as necessary.
Royalty receivable from licensees is accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement which, in the case of Japanese licences, is on the basis of production volumes.
The Group has complied with Financial Reporting Standard 5 Application Note G Revenue Recognition published during the year.
There has been no material impact as a consequence of adopting this standard in the year to 31 March 2004. b Intangible fixed assets Goodwill For acquisitions of companies or businesses made on or after 1 April 1998, goodwill being the excess of purchase consideration over the fair value of net assets acquired is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets and liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting policies of acquired businesses into alignment with those of Burberry Group.
Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 April 1998 was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
On the disposal of a business, any goodwill previously written off against reserves in Burberry Group is included in the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill on acquisitions after 1 April 1998 is capitalised and amortised by equal annual instalments over its estimated useful economic life, not exceeding 20 years, taking into account the nature of the business acquired and other competitive considerations.
The useful economic life of goodwill arising is determined on a case-by-case basis.
Impairment reviews are performed if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Trademarks and other intellectual property The cost of securing and renewing trademarks and other intellectual property is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset and amortised by equal annual instalments over its useful economic life, typically 10 years.
The useful economic life of trademarks and other intellectual property is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement.
c Tangible fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or revalued amount where relevant, less depreciation.
Depreciation Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated to write off the cost or revalued amount, less residual value, of the assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: Land Not depreciated Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leaseholds less than 50 years expired Over the unexpired term of the lease Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings 3 8 years Retail fixtures and fittings 2 5 years Office equipment 5 years Computer software and equipment 3 5 years Lease premiums Amounts paid to acquire the rights to a lease Lease Premiums are written off in equal annual instalments over the life of the lease or to the next rental review.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 47 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Accounting policies continued c Tangible fixed assets and depreciation continued Valuations Burberry Group has adopted a policy of not revaluing properties as permitted under Financial Reporting Standard 15 Tangible Fixed Assets.
Previously revalued properties are included at their valuation at 31 March 1996, less depreciation.
Leasehold properties are carried at original cost and are amortised over the remainder of the lease term on a straight line basis.
Impairment Impairment reviews are undertaken when performance trends or changes in circumstances suggest that the net book value of a fixed asset is not fully recoverable.
Profit loss on disposal of fixed assets Profits and losses on disposal of tangible fixed assets represent the difference between the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional.
d Investments in group companies Investments held by the Company are carried at cost less amounts written off in respect of impairment.
When investments are fully or partially hedged by means of foreign currency borrowings, the hedged proportion of those investments is retranslated at the relevant exchange rate and the resulting exchange difference taken to reserves along with the matching exchange difference on the foreign currency borrowings.
e Stock Stock and work in progress are valued on a first-in-first-out basis at the lower of cost including an appropriate proportion of production overhead and net realisable value.
Provision is made to reduce cost to no more than net realisable value having regard to the age and condition of stock, as well as its anticipated saleability.
f Deferred tax Deferred taxation is recognised as a liability or asset if transactions have occurred at the balance sheet date that give rise to an obligation to pay more taxation in future, or a right to pay less taxation in future.
An asset is not recognised to the extent that the realisation of economic benefits in the future is uncertain.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries.
Deferred tax would be provided where remittance is anticipated and is expected to result in a charge to taxation.
g Pension costs The pension costs in the consolidated financial statements are determined in accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 Accounting for pension costs SSAP 24.
The transitional disclosure requirements required by Financial Reporting Standard 17 Retirement benefits FRS 17 are set out in note 32.
GUS defined benefit schemes Eligible employees of Burberry Group participate in a number of GUS defined benefit schemes throughout the world: the principal defined benefit schemes are in the UK.
The assets covering these arrangements are held in independently administered funds.
The cost of providing defined pension benefits to participating Burberry employees is charged to the profit and loss account of Burberry Group over the anticipated period of employment, in accordance with recommendations made by independent qualified actuaries.
Defined contribution schemes Burberry Group eligible employees also participate in GUS group defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating Burberry employees is recognised in the profit and loss account of Burberry Group and comprises the amount of contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the year.
h Share schemes Incentive plans The cost of shares acquired by the Burberry Group Employee Share Ownership Trusts ESOTs or the fair market value of the shares at the date of the grant, less any consideration receivable from the participating Burberry employee, is charged to the profit and loss account.
Where awards are contingent upon future events other than continued employment, an assessment of the likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made at the end of each reporting period and an appropriate accrual made over the period to which the participating Burberry employees performance relates.
Where awards are not contingent upon future events a full accrual is made immediately in the profit and loss account.
48 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 Accounting policies continued h Share schemes continued Save As You Earn scheme GUS plc operates a Save As You Earn scheme in which certain UK employees of Burberry Group participate that allows for the grant of GUS plc ordinary shares at a discount to the market price at the date of the grant.
Burberry Group has made use of the exemption under UITF Abstract 17 Employee Share Schemes not to recognise any compensation charge in respect of this scheme.
i Foreign currency translation Translation of the results of overseas businesses The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
The assets and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at year end exchange rates.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken to reserves and are reported in the Statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Average Closing Year to 31 March As at 31 March 2004 2003 2004 2003 Euro 1.44 1.55 1.50 1.45 US dollar 1.70 1.55 1.84 1.58 Hong Kong dollar 13.20 12.05 14.31 12.33 Korean won 2,016 1,880 2,106 1,981 The average exchange rate achieved by Burberry Group on its Yen royalty income, taking into account its use of Yen forward sale contracts on a monthly basis approximately 12 months in advance of royalty receipts, was Yen 182.3: 1 in the year to 31 March 2004 2003: Yen 174.2: 1.
Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the forward contract rate where hedged.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies which are held at year end are translated into Sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date or at the forward contract rate where specifically hedged.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the profit and loss account except where they relate to loans hedging investments in overseas subsidiaries of Burberry Group, in which case such differences including attributable taxation are taken directly to reserves and limited to the foreign currency movement on the underlying investment.
j Financial instruments Burberry Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are forward currency contracts taken out to hedge certain future royalty receivables and product purchases.
Gains and losses on such forward currency contracts are recognised in the profit and loss account at the same date as the underlying transaction.
The financial instruments used and managed by Burberry Group consist primarily of cash and forward currency contracts used to hedge currency exposures on trading transactions.
Burberry Group has taken advantage of the exemption available under Financial Reporting Standard 13 Derivatives and Financial Instruments, in respect of short term debtors and creditors, and details in respect of these balances are excluded from the required disclosures, other than within the currency risk disclosure.
k Operating leases Gross rental income and expenditure in respect of operating leases are recognised on a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
Certain rental expense is determined on the basis of turnover achieved in specific retail locations and is accrued for on that basis.
l Related party transactions Financial Reporting Standard 8, Related Party Disclosures FRS 8, requires the disclosure of the details of material transactions between the reporting entity and related parties.
Burberry Group has taken advantage of an exemption under FRS 8 not to disclose transactions between Burberry Group companies, which eliminate on consolidation.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04 49
