PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Company Country of incorporation Nature of business Europe Burberry Limited England and Wales Luxury goods retailer, wholesaler, manufacturer and licensor Burberry Italy Retail Limited England and Wales Luxury goods retailer The Scotch House Limited England and Wales Luxury goods brand and licensor Woodrow-Universal Limited England and Wales Textile manufacturer Burberry France S. A. France Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Suisse S. A. Switzerland Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Italy SRL Italy Luxury goods wholesaler Burberry Deutschland GmbH Germany Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Spain S. A. Spain Luxury goods wholesaler Mercader y Casadevall S. A. Spain Luxury goods retailer Burberry Spain Retail S. L. Spain Luxury goods retailer North America Burberry Limited USA Luxury goods retailer Burberry Wholesale Limited USA Luxury goods wholesaler Hampstead Properties Inc. USA Property company Burberry Realty, Inc. USA Property company Asia Pacific Burberry Asia Limited Hong Kong Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Singapore Distribution Company Pte Ltd Singapore Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Pacific Pty Limited Australia Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Korea Limited Korea Luxury goods retailer and wholesaler Burberry Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia Luxury goods retailer Burberry Japan KK Japan Service company Held directly by Burberry Group plc All principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned as at 31 March 2004 and operate principally in the country in which they are incorporated, with the exception of Burberry Italy Retail Limited, which operates principally in Italy.
Non-operating intermediate holding and financing companies are excluded from the above.
Burberry Group plc is 65.9% owned by GUS Holdings Limited, a subsidiary of GUS plc, which is registered in England and Wales.
The ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party is GUS plc.
Copies of GUS plc consolidated financial statements can be obtained from the Company Secretary at GUS plc, One Stanhope Gate, London W1K 1AF.
B Burberr urberry Group plc Annual Repor y Group plc Annual Report and Accoun t and Account ts s 2 20 003 04 03 04 77 77
