NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Basis of preparation Burberry Group is a luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific: licensing activity is also carried out, principally in Japan.
All of the companies which comprise the Burberry Group are owned by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
Prior to the completion of the initial public offering in July 2002, ownership of these companies was transferred to Burberry Group plc formerly Burberry Group Limited, which was incorporated on 30 October 1997 in England and Wales.
The financial information has been prepared by consolidating the historical financial information for each of the companies that comprise Burberry Group from applicable individual financial returns of these companies for the years to 31 March 2004 and 2003.
Prior to flotation, on 17 July 2002, the net assets of Burberry Group were represented by the cumulative investment of GUS group in Burberry Group shown as GUS investment in Burberry Group.
All non-trading transactions between Burberry Group and GUS group were reflected as movements in GUS investment in Burberry Group, which was comprised of: a assets and liabilities not forming part of Burberry Group after flotation.
These assets and liabilities were transferred on or before flotation to GUS group companies in part settlement of the loans outstanding between GUS group and Burberry Group: b loans due to and from GUS group companies.
These amounts were settled fully either as part of the Burberry Group reorganisation with shares issued to GUS group and loan repayments, or by the waiver of such loans by GUS group: and c share capital and reserves of Burberry Group companies.
The balances in a and b above are referred to as GUS group balances in the Reconciliation of movement in Group Shareholders Funds, the Group cash flow statement and the Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds.
Burberry Group reorganisation Immediately prior to the flotation on the London Stock Exchange, a reorganisation of Burberry Group took place resulting in Burberry Group directly owning all Burberry Group companies.
Prior to this, a number of Burberry Group entities and certain Burberry-related assets and liabilities together the Net Assets were held underneath GUS group companies although Burberry Group indirectly controlled them and had the economic rights to, and was exposed to the risks in, the Net Assets.
The Net Assets were accounted for as quasi-subsidiaries in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 5, Reporting the substance of transactions and were thus consolidated as if their legal ownership rested with Burberry Group.
The reorganisation involved the acquisition by Burberry Group of the legal ownership of the Net Assets and the disposal to GUS group of those assets and liabilities which did not form part of the Burberry Group post-flotation.
Burberry Group financed this reorganisation using loans from GUS group: such loans were repaid by a rights issue of Ordinary Share capital to GUS group 486.7m, by loan repayment out of the proceeds of the Companys flotation on the London Stock Exchange 250.5m and by the waiver of the remaining debt 37.6m by GUS group.
These transactions created a premium on the legal acquisition of the Net Assets of 704.1m the Premium.
The accounting treatment required by Schedule 4A to the Companies Act 1985 would recognise the Premium as goodwill.
However, the directors consider that, in substance, the Premium represents the value that has been transferred outside of Burberry Group as a result of these transactions.
In effect, Burberry Group made a payment to GUS group for assets that it already controlled prior to the reorganisation.
Consequently, in order to meet the overriding requirement of the Companies Act 1985 to show a true and fair view, the Premium has been treated as a distribution to GUS group out of the consolidated reserves of Burberry Group the Deemed Distribution.
The directors consider that it is not meaningful to quantify the effects of this departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
As a result of the Deemed Distribution, a net deficit arises on the accumulated profit and loss account in the Burberry Group consolidated balance sheet.
In order to eliminate this deficit on consolidation an other reserve of 704.1m was created in the Companys own balance sheet by the transfer of this sum from the share premium account, following High Court approval of the capital reduction, shortly before the admission of the Companys Ordinary Shares to trading by the London Stock Exchange.
This other reserve was reclassified as distributable, and included in the profit and loss account reserve, when all the Companys creditors in existence on 17 July 2002 the date of approval of the capital reduction were settled in full, on 31 December 2003.
A capital reserve of 6.6m was also created as part of the reorganisation.
46 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 04
