shareholder information MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Memorandum and Articles of Association are registered Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended with the Registrar of Companies of England and Wales and 31 March 2002 under the caption Memorandum and the registered number of the Company is 238525.
The Articles of Association is incorporated within this document summary of the material terms of Cable and Wireless plcs by reference.
Memorandum and Articles of Association contained in the MATERIAL CONTRACTS US Exit As part of the Groups withdrawal from the US domestic with SAVVIS Communications Corporation SAVVIS, market described in Corporate Overview, a Separation for SAVVIS to acquire substantially all of the assets of Agreement amongst Cable and Wireless plc, Cable & Cable & Wireless America for a sum of US$155 million in Wireless Americas Operations Inc. Cable & Wireless cash and approximately US$12.4 million of assumed Holdings, Inc. Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & liabilities.
The contract contained certain conditions of a Wireless Internet Services, Inc. was entered into on standard nature, including regulatory approvals.
All of the 17 September 2003, with effect from 1 July 2003.
This conditions to the sale were satisfied and the completion of agreement formalised the separation of the business of Cable the sale was announced on 8 March 2004.
Pursuant to the & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Wireless Internet terms of the sale agreement, SAVVIS began funding the Services, Inc. together with certain of their afliates referred operating expenses of the purchased business on 28 January to as Cable & Wireless America from the businesses of 2004. the rest of Cable & Wireless and set out the steps each was taking to ensure service continuity for their respective A Transitional Services Agreement between Cable and customers.
Wireless plc and SAVVIS was entered into on 13 February Following the auction described in Corporate Overview, 2004 which formalised the steps that each of Cable and Cable & Wireless USA, Inc. and Cable & Wireless Internet Wireless plc and SAVVIS was taking to ensure service Services, Inc. entered into an agreement on 23 January 2004 continuity for the customers of both entities.
