shareholder information TAXATION The following is a summary, under current law, of the UK Taxation principal UK and US federal income tax considerations Dividends relating to an investment by a US taxpayer in Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
This summary applies to investors only if: Under current UK taxation legislation, no tax is required to be withheld at source from cash dividend payments on the r they are individual US citizens or residents, US Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
corporations, or otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of the Ordinary Capital Gains Shares or ADRs: Subject to the following, if investors are not resident or r they hold the Ordinary Shares or ADRs as a capital ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom for UK tax purposes asset for tax purposes: and they will not generally be liable to UK tax on gains realised or accrued on the disposal of Ordinary Shares or ADRs, unless r they are not resident or ordinarily resident in the United they carry on a trade, profession, or vocation in the United Kingdom for UK tax purposes, and do not hold the Kingdom through a branch or agency and the Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares or ADRs for the purposes of a trade, or ADRs are used in or for the purposes of the trade, profession, or vocation that they carry on in the United profession, or vocation or are used or held for the purposes of Kingdom through a branch or agency.
the branch or agency or acquired for use by or for the purposes of the branch or agency.
Particular rules may apply to investors This summary does not purport to be a comprehensive who have previously been resident in the United Kingdom, description of all of the tax considerations that may be who dispose of Ordinary Share or ADRs while they are not so relevant to any particular investor, and does not address the resident, and who subsequently again become resident in the tax treatment of investors that are subject to special rules.
It United Kingdom within specified time periods.
Such rules may is assumed that investors are familiar with the tax rules have the effect of subjecting such an investor to United applicable to investments in securities generally and with Kingdom capital gains tax in the year in which they again any special rules to which they may be subject.
In particular, become resident in the United Kingdom.
the discussion does not address the tax treatment of investors that are subject to special rules, such as banks, insurance companies, dealers in securities or currencies, persons that Inheritance Tax elect mark-to-market treatment, persons that hold Ordinary Ordinary Shares or ADRs held by an individual who is Shares or ADRs as a position in a straddle, conversion domiciled in the United States for purposes of the current transaction, synthetic security, or other integrated financial estate and gift tax convention between the United Kingdom transaction, and persons whose functional currency is not the and the United States and is not a national of the United US dollar.
Kingdom for such purposes do not generally attract UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on transfer The discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions, during his lifetime.
and regulatory interpretations in effect on the date of this document, all of which are subject to change.
On 31 March 2003, representatives of the United Kingdom and United Stamp Duty And Stamp Duty Reserve Tax States exchanged instruments of ratication for a new UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT is chargeable where income tax convention the New Treaty.
The New Treaty Ordinary Shares are issued or transferred to the depositary or has the force and effect of law in respect of withholding nominee or agent for the depositary pursuant to an taxes on dividends from 1 May 2003.
As discussed below, arrangement under which the depositary issues depositary investors will no longer be entitled to claim a special foreign receipts such as the ADRs.
The SDRT, payable by the tax credit in respect of dividends that was available under depositary, will generally be 1.5 per cent of the purchase or the terms of the prior treaty, except for a limited period of issue price of the Ordinary Shares.
In certain circumstances, time during which investors may elect to apply the entirety the transfer to the depositarys nominee or agent may give of the prior treaty in preference to the New Treaty.
rise to a liability to ad valorem stamp duty, in which case Investors should consult their own advisers regarding the tax the SDRT charge is reduced or eliminated accordingly.
Such consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition SDRT or stamp duty liability will ordinarily in accordance of the Ordinary Shares or ADRs in the light of their with the terms of the deposit agreement be charged to the particular circumstances, including the effect of any state, person to whom ADRs are delivered in connection with the local, or other national laws.
Page 152 shareholder information No UK stamp duty is payable on any transfer of an ADR Special Foreign Tax Credit Benets Under Prior Treaty provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of Investors who qualied for benets under the income tax transfer is executed and remains outside the United convention between the United States and the United Kingdom.
Nor is any agreement for transfer of ADRs Kingdom in force before 31 March 2003 may be eligible, subject to SDRT.
However, if the seller of an ADR fulls subject to generally applicable limitations, to receive a his obligations by requiring the transfer of the underlying special US foreign tax credit equal to one-ninth of the Ordinary Shares whether or not to the purchaser, the amount of certain cash dividends that they receive on the transfer instrument is, it is thought, subject to stamp duty at Ordinary Shares or ADRs, so long as they make an election approximately 0.5 per cent of the purchase price.
A transfer to include in their income, as an additional notional of Ordinary Shares which does not complete a sale is dividend, an amount equal to the tax credit.
This foreign tax dutiable at the xed rate of 5. credit benefit is generally only available with respect to dividends paid before 1 May 2003, unless an investor elects If Ordinary Shares themselves are sold, SDRT at 0.5 per to apply the prior income tax convention in its entirety for cent of the consideration will, subject to exceptions, be an optional 12 month extension period.
Investors should payable, generally by the purchaser.
If, within six years of consult their own tax advisers regarding their potential the date on which the agreement is made or if later eligibility for this foreign tax credit benefit.
becomes unconditional, the Ordinary Shares are transferred to the person with whom the agreement is made or where the agreement was to transfer the Ordinary Shares to that Capital Gains persons nominee his nominee and the transfer instrument is stamped on payment of the applicable stamp duty If investors sell their Ordinary Shares or ADRs, investors approximately 0.5 per cent of the consideration, the stamp will recognise capital gain or loss.
Gain on the sale of duty will cancel the SDRT charge and the SDRT may be Ordinary Shares or ADRs held for more than one year will repaid on making of a claim within the six year period.
be treated as long-term capital gain.
The net amount of long-term capital gain realised by a non-corporate holder US Federal Income Taxation generally is subject to taxation at a maximum rate of 20 per cent: however, net long-term capital gain recognised after General 5 May 2003 and before 2009 generally is subject to taxation beneficial owners of ADRs will be treated as owners of the at a maximum rate of 15 per cent.
An investors ability to underlying Ordinary Shares for US federal income tax offset capital losses against ordinary income is subject to purposes and for purposes of the Current Treaty.
and withdrawals of Ordinary Shares in exchange for ADRs will not result in the realisation of gain or loss for US US Information Reporting And Backup Withholding federal income tax purposes.
Rules Dividends Payments in respect of the Ordinary Shares or ADRs that are If Cable & Wireless pays dividends, investors must include made within the United States or through certain US-related those dividends in their income for US federal income tax financial intermediaries are subject to information reporting purposes when they receive them.
The dividends will be and may be subject to backup withholding unless the holder treated as foreign source income.
Investors should determine 1 is a corporation or other exempt recipient or 2 provides the amount of their dividend income by converting pounds a taxpayer identication number and certies that no loss of sterling into US dollars at the exchange rate in effect on the exemption from backup withholding has occurred.
Holders date of their or the depositarys, in the case of ADRs that are not US persons generally are not subject to receipt of the dividend.
Subject to certain exceptions for information reporting or backup withholding.
However, such positions that are hedged or held for less than 61 days, an a holder may be required to provide a certication of its individual US holder generally will be subject to US non-US status in connection with payments received within taxation at a maximum rate of 15 per cent in respect of the United States or through a US-related financial dividends received after 2002 and before 2009. intermediary.
