operating and financial review CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In the preparation of Cable & Wireless consolidated Depreciation and amortisation of xed assets financial statements a number of estimates and assumptions Cable & Wireless assigns useful lives to xed assets based are made relating to the reporting of results of operations on periodic studies of actual asset lives and the intended use and financial condition.
Results may differ signicantly from for those assets for example, related to xed assets those estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
purchased for specic customer contracts.
Changes in Cable & Wireless believes that the following discussion circumstances such as technological advances, prospective addresses its most critical accounting policies, which are economic utilisation and physical condition of the assets those that are most important to the presentation of its concerned could result in the actual useful lives differing consolidated financial condition and results.
These particular from initial estimates.
Where Cable & Wireless determines policies require subjective and complex judgements, often as that the useful life of property and equipment should be a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of shortened, Cable & Wireless depreciates the net book value matters that are inherently uncertain.
in excess of the residual value over the revised remaining useful life, thereby increasing depreciation expense.
Any Valuation of xed assets and goodwill change in asset lives would be reported in Cable & Wirelessnancial statements when the change in estimate is Cable & Wireless assesses the impairment of xed assets determined.
There have been no significant changes in asset and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances lives during the periods presented other than that the asset indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable or lives of TDMA mobile assets have been revised downwards otherwise as required by accounting standards.
Factors that in light of technological change in the current period.
are considered important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: Revenue recognition r significant under-performance relative to expected Revenue, which excludes value added tax or other sales historical or projected future operating results: taxes, represents the amount receivable in respect of r significant changes in the use of its assets or the telecommunications services provided to customers and is strategy for its overall business: accounted for on the accruals basis to match revenues with r significant changes in technology and regulatory provision of service.
Revenue is recognised monthly as environments: services are provided.
Revenue in respect of services invoiced in advance is deferred and recognised on provision r significant negative industry or economic trends: and of the service.
Revenue in respect of unbilled services is r significant decline in its stock price for a sustained accrued.
period and its market capitalisation relative to net book value.
An Amendment to FRS 5 Reporting the substance of transactions: Revenue Recognition which is effective for Cable & Wireless determines any impairment by comparing periods ending on or after 23 December 2003 was issued in the carrying values of each of Cable & Wireless income November 2003.
The Amendment deals with revenue generating units to their recoverable amounts the higher of recognition from the supply of goods or services to net realisable value and the present value of the future cash customers.
ows obtainable as a result of an assets continued use.
During 2004, Cable & Wireless impaired tangible xed Managements judgement is required in assessing the assets by 526 million 2003 2,381 million, 2002 application of the principles and the specic guidance in 1,909 million and goodwill by 10 million 2003 2,725 respect of Group revenues.
This is particularly relevant for million, 2002 2,007 million.
The impairment represented the Group with regard to the presentation of turnover as the amount by which the carrying value exceeded the principal or as agent in respect of income received from present value of the estimated future cash ows.
transmission of content provided by third parties.
Future cash ows were determined with reference to Cable Interconnection with other operators & Wirelessve year projections using discount rates from 10.5 per cent to 20 per cent which represent the estimated In Cable & Wireless normal course of business it weighted average cost of capital for the respective interconnects its networks with other telecommunications businesses.
Changes to the assumptions used by management operators.
In certain instances it uses estimates to determine to determine the level of impairment required such as the the amount of income receivable from or payments to these discount rate could signicantly affect Cable & Wireless other operators.
The prices at which these services are results.
charged are sometimes regulated and may be subject to Page 44 operating and financial review retrospective adjustment.
Estimates are used in assessing the Liabilities likely effect of these adjustments.
The Company complies with FRS 12 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
A provision is recognised These interconnect transactions are distinguished from when there is a constructive obligation in respect of a past capacity sales which represent sales of Indefeasible Rights of event.
Provisions and liabilities are recognised in respect of Use IRUs.
IRUs give the purchaser the right to use a tax, pensions, transactions and restructurings.
Managements cable bre or wavelength for a specified period of time.
judgement is required to quantify such amounts.
There were no capacity sales in 2004.
Pensions Exceptional items The regular cost of providing benets under dened benefit Under UK GAAP, the Company classied the following schemes is charged to operating profit over the expected income costs as exceptional items: remaining service lives of the members of the schemes so as to achieve a constant percentage of pensionable pay.
2004 2003 2002 Variations from the regular cost arising from periodic m m m actuarial valuations of the principal dened benefit schemes are allocated to operating profit over the expected remaining Exceptional operating costs 244 442 210 service lives of the members.
Exceptional depreciation 526 2,381 1,909 Exceptional amortisation 10 2,725 2,007 The expected cost of providing these dened benefit Exceptional profits less pensions will depend on an assessment of such factors as: losses on sale or termination of operations 250 147 1,057 r the life expectancy of the members: Exceptional write down of r the length of service: investments 390 904 r the rate of salary progression: Exceptional profits on r the rate of return earned on assets in the future: and disposal of xed assets 28 62 r the rate used to discount future pension liabilities.
The assumptions used by Cable & Wireless are set out in Judgement is required to classify such items as exceptional Note 8 to the accounts and are estimates chosen from a items.
The Company is guided by FRS 3 Reporting range of possible actuarial assumptions which may not Financial Performance which provides that material items necessarily be borne out in practice but are comparable to which derive from events or transactions that fall within the the median estimates in this regard used by other FTSE 100 ordinary activities are disclosed as exceptional items by companies.
Changes to these assumptions could materially virtue of their size or incidence such that the financial impact the size of the dened benefit scheme deficit of 403 statements give a true and fair view.
Exceptional million, calculated under FRS 17, Retirement Benets, depreciation and amortisation arise from the impairment disclosed in Note 8. review discussed above within Valuation of xed assets and goodwill.
International Financial Reporting Standards Cable & Wireless will be required to adopt International Exceptional operating costs Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with effect from In the year ended 31 March 2004 exceptional items included 1 April 2005.
An initial assessment of the impact on Cable in other operating costs related principally to impaired assets & Wirelessnancial statements and the underlying and redundancy and reorganisation costs incurred during the processes and systems has been made.
These provisions are based on various assumptions, implementation plan is now in progress to enable the including future severance costs, sublease or disposal costs preparation of the Groups financial statements under IFRS and contractual termination costs.
Such estimates are for periods from 1 April 2005, together with relevant judgmental and may change based on actual experience.
