The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Accounting Policies for the year ended 31 January 2004 1.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments, and in accordance with United Kingdom law and applicable accounting standards including the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies issued in January 2003 by the Association of Investment Trust Companies.
Revenue - Dividends on equity shares are accounted for on an ex-dividend basis and shown in the revenue account except where, in the opinion of the Directors, the nature of the dividends indicate they should be treated as capital receipts.
UK dividends are shown net of tax credits.
Income from convertible securities having an element of equity is recognised on an accruals basis.
Fixed returns on non-equity shares are recognised on an accruals basis.
Where the Company has elected to receive its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the equivalent of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
Deposit interest receivable and stock lending fees are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Underwriting commission is recognised when the issue underwritten closes.
Investment management fee - The investment management fee is calculated on the basis set out in Note 2 to the financial statements and is charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the Companys prospective split of capital and income returns.
Valuation Investments listed in the United Kingdom have been valued at middle market prices.
Those listed abroad have been valued at closing or middle market prices as available.
Unlisted investments are valued by the Directors based upon the latest dealing prices, stockbrokers valuations, net asset values, earnings and other known accounting information in accordance with the principles set out by the British Venture Capital Association issued in July 2003.
An unrealised Capital Reserve has been established to reflect differences between value and book cost.
Net gains or losses arising on realisations of investments are taken directly to the realised Capital Reserve.
Finance costs In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 4 Capital Instruments, long term borrowings are stated as the amount of net proceeds immediately after issue plus the appropriate accrued finance costs at the balance sheet date.
The finance costs of such borrowings, being the difference between the net proceeds of a borrowing and the total payments that may be required in respect of that borrowing, are allocated to periods over the term of the debt at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Finance costs on long term borrowings are charged to capital and revenue in the ratio 65:35 to reflect the Companys prospective split of capital and income returns.
Taxation Where expenses are allocated between capital and revenue, any tax relief obtained in respect of those expenses is allocated between capital and revenue on the marginal basis using the Companys effective rate of corporation tax for the accounting period.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date.
Where deferred tax assets are likely to be considered irrecoverable no provision is made.
Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses thereon are recognised in Capital Reserves.
No Statement of Recognised Gains and Losses as required by Financial Reporting Standard 3 has been prepared.
The Managers consider that the additional information provided would not add materially to the information disclosed in the Statement of Total Return from which recognised gains and losses can be derived.
