The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of The from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the 5 Merchants Trust PLC will be held at 20 Moorgate, London business days immediately preceding the day on which the EC2R 6DA, on Tuesday 11 May 2004 at 12.00 noon to Ordinary Share is purchased or such other amount as may transact the following business.
be specified by the London Stock Exchange from time to time: Routine Business iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 1 To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Accounts for the year ended 31 January 2004 together with Company in 2005 or, if earlier, on the expiry of the Auditors Report thereon.
18 months from the passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and 2 To re-elect Mr P. J. Scott Plummer as a Director.
v the Company may make a contract to purchase 3 To re-elect Sir Bob Reid as a Director, special notice having Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred been received of the intention to propose his re-election.
prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such 4 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract.
5 To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next 8 That for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act general meeting at which accounts are laid before the 1985 the Directors be generally and unconditionally Company.
authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said section up 6 To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,331,828 provided that: the Auditors.
i the authority granted shall expire five years from the date Special Business upon which this Resolution is passed but may be revoked or varied by the Company in General Meeting and may be Resolution 8 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and renewed by the Company in General Meeting for a further Resolutions 7 and 9 as Special Resolutions: period not exceeding five years: and 7 That the Company be and is hereby generally and ii the authority shall allow and enable the Directors to make unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 166 an offer or agreement before the expiry of that authority of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market which would or might require relevant securities to be purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Act of allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot Ordinary Shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or Ordinary Shares, provided that: agreement as if that authority had not expired.
i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 15,305,380: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 25p: iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share taken 44 The Merchants Trust PLC Notice of Meeting 9 That the Directors be empowered in accordance with Section Annual General Meeting Venue 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act for cash as if Moorgate tube sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that: London Wall i the power granted shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities wholly for cash up to an aggegate nominal amount of 1,273,746 being within 5 per cent Great Swan Alley of the issued Ordinary Share capital at the date of this CAZENOVE Notice : 20 Moorgate Telegraph St ii the power granted shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution: and iii the said power shall allow and enable the Directors to make an offer or agreement before the expiry of that Lothbury power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuant of such offer or agreement as Bank tube if that power had not expired.
155 Bishopgate, By Order of the Board London EC2M 3AD K. J.
Salt 8 April 2004 Secretary Notes: Members entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote in their stead.
The proxy need not be a Member of the Company.
Duly completed forms of proxy must reach the office of the Registrars at least 48 hours before the Meeting.
A form of proxy is provided with the Annual Report.
Completion of the enclosed form of proxy does not preclude a Member from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, Members must be entered on the Companys register of Members at 6 p. m. on 9 May 2004 the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of Members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, Members must be entered on the Companys register of Members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed forthe adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the Directors, who hold office in accordance with the Articles of Association.
45 Moorgate Tokenhouse Yard Copthall Avenue The Merchants Trust PLC 46 The Merchants Trust PLC Form of Proxy and Authority for Savings Scheme Investors see D below Shareholders name and address A and Authority for PEP and or ISA Investors see below E Title and Surname................................... Notes on how to complete the proxy form If you are a registered Ordinary Shareholder and you are unable to Forenames......................................... attend the Meeting or you are an investor through the Allianz Dresdner Investment Trust Savings Scheme Savings Scheme Investors and or Address........................................... Allianz Dresdner Trust PEP and or ISA PEP and or ISA Investors you may appoint a proxy to attend and, on a poll, to vote on your behalf............................................................................ Postcode.............. A How to sign the form i Please print your name and address in the space provided and Appointment of Proxy B sign and date the form.
ii If someone else signs the form on your behalf, the authority I We, the undersigned, being a member s of the above-named entitling them to do so, or a certified copy of it, must accompany Company hereby appoint the Chairman of the Meeting or the form.
Title and Surname or your chosen proxy.................. iii In the case of a corporation, this form must be executed either under its common seal or be signed on its behalf by an attorney Forenames......................................... or duly authorised officer of the corporation.
iv In the case of joint holders, the signature of the first-named on Address........................................... the Register of Members, in respect of the joint holding, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the other joint holders................................................. B Appointing a proxy........................... Postcode...............
If you wish to appoint someone other than the Chairman as your proxy as my our proxy to attend and vote for me us and on my our please cross out the words the Chairman of the Meeting, initial the behalf as directed below at the Annual General Meeting of the deletion, and insert the name and address of your proxy.
A proxy need Company to be held on 11 May 2004 at 12 noon and at any not be a member of the Company, but must attend the Meeting in order adjournment.
C C Telling your proxy how to vote Ordinary Business For Against Abstain Tick the appropriate box indicating how your proxy should vote on the 1 To receive the report and accounts Resolutions.
If you do not give instructions, your proxy or relevant 2 To re-elect Mr P. J. Scott Plummer D E Administrator Manager see note and below will vote or abstain as a Director at their discretion.
They will also vote or abstain at their discretion on any other business which may lawfully be put before the Meeting.
3 To re-elect Sir Bob Reid as a Director D Savings Scheme Investors 4 To approve the Directors The Ordinary Shares held on your behalf in the Savings Scheme are Remuneration Report registered in the name of the Scheme Nominee Company.
If you 5 To re-appoint  A C complete parts and of the form of proxy you will be deemed to LLP as Auditors C have instructed the Scheme Administrator to vote as indicated in part in respect of all such Ordinary Shares.
You will also be deemed to have 6 To authorise the Directors to determine B appointed the Chairman of the Meeting or, if you complete part, the the remuneration of the Auditors person named there, as your proxy in respect of any Ordinary Shares registered in your name.
Special Business 7 To authorise the Company to make E PEP and or ISA holders market purchases of its own The Ordinary Shares held on your behalf in the PEP and or ISA are Ordinary Shares registered in the name of the Plan Account Nominee Company.
If you 8 To renew the Directors authority A C complete parts and of the form of proxy you will be deemed to to allot shares C have instructed the Plan Account Manager to vote as indicated in part in respect of all such Ordinary Shares.
You will also be deemed to have 9 To renew the Directors authority to B appointed the Chairman of the Meeting or, if you completed part, the allot shares for cash person named there, as your proxy in respect of any Ordinary Shares registered in your name.
I We wish to attend the AGM all shareholders Yes No Returning the form D Savings Scheme Investors only please tick The form must reach the office of the Registrars of the Company no later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting, 96 hours in the case of Savings Scheme investors and PEP and or ISA holders.
If you are a E PEP and or ISA Holders only please tick registered Ordinary Shareholder and you subsequently decide to attend the Meeting you may do so.
Please indicate above if you wish to attend the Annual General Meeting.
This will facilitate the Companys planning of the AGM in general, and in respect of Scheme, PEP and ISA holders, enable the relevant Nominee Company to send a Letter of Representation, for you to bring to the Meeting.. Third Fold and Tuck in BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
MB 122 v v F I R S Capita Registrars proxies T PO Box 25 F BECKENHAM, O L Kent D BR3 4BR Second Fold ALLIAN Z DR ESD NER AS SE T MANAGEMEN T P hone 0 800 3 17 573 Fax 020 7638 350 8 www.
a lli a nz dr es dnera m. c o. u k
