Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the tenth Annual General Meeting of 6.
To re-elect Mr E A Wallis as a director.
Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc will be held at The Thistle Hotel Tower, Tower Suite, St Katharines Way, London 7.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as independent auditor to E1W 1LD on Friday, 27 August 2004 at 10.30 a. m. to transact the Company.
To authorise the directors to determine the independent Ordinary business auditors remuneration.
To receive the report of the directors and the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2004, together with the report of the independent auditor thereon.
By order of the Board Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited 2.
To approve the directors remuneration report.
Special notice having been received, to re-elect Mr M S Evans as a director.
To re-elect Mr D W J Price as a director.
To re-elect Mr J Walker-Haworth as a director.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote in his stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Forms of proxy must reach the office of the Companys registrar by 10.30 a. m. on Wednesday, 25 August 2004.
A form of proxy is provided with the annual report to shareholders on the register of members.
Proxy votes can be submitted electronically at www-uk.
com proxy by using the SRN and PIN numbers printed on the form of proxy.
The latest time for submission of proxy votes electronically is 10.30 a. m. on 25 August 2004.
However, you should note that any power of attorney or other authority relating to an appointment cannot be submitted electronically and must be deposited with the Companys registrar to be valid.
Completion and return of the form of proxy including registration electronically will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 11.00 p. m. on 25 August 2004 the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the time applicable to the original meeting, the specified time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after 11.00 p. m. on 25 August 2004 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, on the register less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
No service contracts exist between the Company and any of the directors, who hold office in accordance with letters of appointment and the Articles of Association.
Only holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Holders of warrants are not entitled to vote at this meeting and this notice is sent to them for information only.
44 74656x Covers 9 6 04 1:59 AM Page IBC3 Glossary Net asset value per share NAV Premium This is the value of the Companys assets attributable to one A premium occurs when the share price is more than the NAV ordinary share.
It is calculated by dividing equity shareholders and investors therefore would be paying more than the value funds by the total number of ordinary shares in issue.
For attributable to the shares by reference to the underlying assets.
example, as at 31 March 2004, equity shareholders funds were For example, if the share price was 120p and the NAV 110p, 411,635,000 and there were 268,995,115 ordinary shares in the premium would be 9.1%.
issue: the NAV was therefore 153.03p per ordinary share.
Discounts and premiums are mainly the consequence of supply Equity shareholders funds are calculated by deducting from the and demand for the shares on the stock market.
Companys total assets, its current and long-term liabilities and any provision for liabilities and charges.
Effective gearing Effective gearing represents the proportion of net borrowings The undiluted NAV outlined above does not take into account to ordinary shareholders funds.
Net borrowings are calculated the effect of the exercise of the warrants to subscribe for by deducting net current assets mainly cash from long-term ordinary shares which are in issue.
A fully diluted NAV assumes borrowings.
Revenue items for the current financial year have the exercise of all the warrants outstanding at their exercise been excluded.
price of 100p and the consequent increase in the net assets and the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Warrants A warrant is a type of security which confers the right but not Discount the obligation to subscribe for shares at a fixed price for the Investment trust shares frequently trade at a discount.
This Companys warrants this is 100p per ordinary share at a occurs when the share price is less than the NAV.
In this specific date or period in the future for the Company, the circumstance, the price that an investor pays or receives for a remaining date is 2 August 2004.
At the Companys launch, share would be less than the value attributable to them by one warrant was issued for every five ordinary shares allotted.
reference to the underlying assets.
The discount is the The warrants can be bought and sold on the London Stock difference between the share price and the NAV, expressed as a Exchange, independently of the shares.
For example, if the share price was 90p and the NAV 100p, the discount would be 10%.
Until warrants are exercised into shares, they do not entitle their holder to receive dividends, or to attend or vote at general meetings of the Company.
Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc Merrill Lynch European nvestment Trust plc Annual Report 2004 74656x Covers 9 6 04 1:59 AM Page BC4 www.
