Shareholder Information Financial calendar service for the forthcoming dividends was 18 June 2004.
The The timing of the announcement and publication of the same instruction will apply to both dividends.
Companys results in 2004 are shown below: This scheme is not available to shareholders on the New Zealand June branch register.
Preliminary results and final dividend for year announced Annual report and financial statements published Share price The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted daily July in the Financial Times, The Times and The Daily Telegraph.
The Second interim dividend paid share price is also available on the Merrill Lynch Investment Managers website at www.
co. uk its August Annual General Meeting ISIN SEDOL numbers Extraordinary General Meeting The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the Companys shares and warrants are: Dividends The second interim dividend in respect of the year ended Ordinary shares Warrants 31 March 2004 is 1.55p per ordinary share.
ISIN GB0005774418 GB0005774525 Ex-dividend date 9 June 2004 shares transferred without the dividend SEDOL 0577441 0577452 Record date 11 June 2004 Reuters code MLE.
L MLE t. L last date for registering transfers to receive the dividend Bloomberg code MLE LN MRP LN Last date for lodging a dividend reinvestment request 18 June 2004 Dividend payment date 6 July 2004 Share dealing Investors wishing to purchase more ordinary shares or warrants An interim dividend of 6.15p per share in respect of the year in the Company or sell all or part of their existing holding may ending 31 March 2005 has also been declared.
Most banks also offer this service.
Ex-dividend date 9 June 2004 Computershare has introduced a telephone dealing service.
shares transferred without the dividend The service is available on 0870 703 0084.
To use this service, Record date 11 June 2004 you will need your shareholder reference number, which is last date for registering transfers to receive the dividend detailed on your share or warrant certificate.
Detailed terms and Last date for lodging a dividend reinvestment request 18 June 2004 conditions are available on request: please contact Dividend payment date 6 July 2004 Computershare on 0870 702 0000.
Payment of dividends Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995 CREST Cash dividends will be sent by cheque, together with a tax The Companys ordinary shares and warrants have joined CREST, voucher, to the first named shareholder at their registered address, an electronic system for uncertificated securities trading.
unless the shareholder has opted for dividend reinvestment.
Dividends may be paid direct into a shareholders bank account via Private investors can continue to retain their share and warrant BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
The tax voucher will certificates and remain outside the CREST system.
Private still be sent to shareholders at their registered address, to arrive on investors are able to buy and sell their holdings in the same way the payment date.
as they did prior to the introduction of CREST, although there may be differences in dealing charges.
Dividend reinvestment scheme Shareholders who have already opted for dividend reinvestment do not need to re-apply.
The last date for registering for this Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc 41 Shareholder Information continued Electronic communications Warrants Computershare has introduced a service to enable shareholders The final opportunity to exercise the warrants to subscribe for to receive correspondence electronically including annual and ordinary shares is on 2 August 2004.
Full details of the procedure interim reports if they wish.
If a shareholder opts to receive for exercise were sent to warrantholders with their copy of this documents in this way, paper documents will only be available report.
on request unless electronic submission fails, in which case a hard copy will be mailed to the investors last known address.
Performance Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice of performance.
The value of investments and the income from Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a link to the them may go down as well as up and are not guaranteed.
relevant section of the Merrill Lynch Investment Managers An investor may not get back the amount invested.
website where the documents can be viewed and printed.
Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis Electronic proxy voting The net asset value per ordinary share NAV is calculated and Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes electronically via published daily, with details of the geographical spread, sector Computershares internet site at www-uk.
com proxy analysis and the ten largest holdings being published monthly.
using a unique identification PIN which will be provided with voting instructions and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The daily NAV and monthly information are released through the Unfortunately this service is not available to shareholders on the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service and are available New Zealand branch register.
through the Reuters News Service under the code MLIMINDEX.
Information as at the month end is also included on page 8800 on Nominee code Topic 3 ICV terminals and under MLIM on Bloomberg.
Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the Company undertakes: Internet Details about the Company are also available on the MLIM to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of website at www.
co. uk its and shareholders on the UK shareholder communications, so long as an indication of register can check details of their holdings on Computershares quantities has been provided in advance: website at www-uk.
com investor to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company The financial statements and other literature are published on to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority is the MLIM website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that available: legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from that investors in the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts Savings Plan legislation in their jurisdiction.
are automatically sent shareholder communications, including details of general meetings, together with a form of direction to Savings Plan facilitate voting and to seek authority to attend: and The Company participates in the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments that investors through the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts ISA and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys and PEP are able to receive the annual and interim reports, ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on including details of annual general meetings, by request.
the Savings Plan should call MLIM free on 0800 445522.
Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary Individual Savings Account ISA authority to underlying shareholders to enable them to attend ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment, introduced by the the Companys general meetings.
The Company is a qualifying investment for the purposes of investment in the stocks and shares component of either a maxi or mini ISA.
Investors may invest up to 7,000 in the 42 Shareholder Information continued stocks and shares component of a maxi ISA, or up to 3,000 in General enquiries or Savings Plan, ISA or PEP enquiries the stocks and shares component of a mini ISA in each tax year.
Enquiries about the Company, or the Savings Plan, ISA or PEP should be directed to: The Companys shares are eligible investments within the stocks and shares component of the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts The Secretary ISA, which is a maxi ISA, details of which are available from Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc MLIM by calling free on 0800 445522.
33 King William Street London EC4R 9AS Personal Equity Plan PEP Telephone: 0800 445522 PEPs have been superseded by ISAs as a tax-efficient method of investment, but all PEP investments already in force by 5 April 1999 retained their tax-free status in line with ISAs.
You may transfer any existing PEPs with other fund managers to MLIM for investment in the Companys ordinary shares without affecting any of the tax benefits you currently enjoy.
For more information on PEP transfers, or your existing Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts PEP, call free on 0800 445522.
Shareholder enquiries In the event of queries regarding your holding of shares or warrants, please contact Computershare on 0870 702 0131.
Changes of name or address must be notified in writing to the registrar at: Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82, The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Shareholders who are registered on the New Zealand branch register must send any such notifications to Computershare Investor Services Limited in New Zealand, at the address shown on page 40.
Details relating to your holding can also be checked through Computershares website.
As a security check, certain information needs to be input to gain access to an individuals account.
This includes your shareholder reference number, which is available from either your share certificate or tax voucher.
The address of the UK website is www-uk.
Shareholders in New Zealand can access certain information through www.
com by selecting New Zealand under country options.
Merrill Lynch European Investment Trust plc 43
