Shareholder Information Financial calendar Services PLC on 0870 702 0131.
Shareholders who have already The timing of the announcement and publication of the opted for dividend reinvestment do not need to re-apply.
The Companys results may normally be expected in the months last date for registering for this service for the forthcoming shown below: dividends is 16 March 2005.
February Share price Preliminary results and final dividend for year announced.
The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted daily Annual report and financial statements published.
in The Financial Times under Investment Companies and in The Daily Telegraph and The Times under Investment Trusts.
March The share price is also available on the Merrill Lynch Investment Annual General Meeting.
co. uk its March April ISIN SEDOL numbers Dividend paid.
The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the Companys shares are: August Interim figures announced and interim report published.
Ordinary Shares ISIN GB0005774855 Dividend 2004 SEDOL 0577485 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended Reuters code MLW.
Bloomberg code MLW N The Board has declared a special dividend of 0.75p per share Share dealing payable on the same date as the final dividend.
Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company or sell all or part of their existing holding may do so through a Ex-dividend date 23 February 2005 shares transferred without the dividend stockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
Record date 25 February 2005 last date for registering transfers to receive The Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, the dividend has introduced a telephone share dealing service.
This service Last date for registering DRIP instructions 16 March 2005 is available on 0870 703 0084.
To use this service, you will Dividend payment date 31 March 2005 need your shareholder reference number, which is detailed on your certificate.
Payment of dividends Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995 CREST shareholder at their registered address, together with a tax The Companys shares have joined CREST, an electronic system voucher.
Dividends may be paid direct into a shareholders bank for uncertificated securities trading.
account via BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Service.
This may be arranged by contacting the Companys registrar, Private investors can continue to retain their share certificates Computershare Investor Services PLC, on 0870 702 0131.
Tax and remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are able vouchers will be sent to shareholders at their registered address, to buy and sell their holdings in the same way as they did prior unless other instructions have been given, to arrive on the to the introduction of CREST, although there may be differences payment date.
Dividend reinvestment scheme DRIP Electronic communications Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to Computershare has introduced a service to enable shareholders purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend reinvestment to receive correspondence electronically including annual and forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor interim reports if they wish.
If a shareholder opts to receive 44 Shareholder Information continued documents in this way, paper documents will only be available Shares of companies in the mining sector can prove volatile on request unless electronic submission fails, in which case a and this may be reflected in the Companys share price.
hard copy will be mailed to the investors last known address.
Any investment in the Company will involve an above average Shareholders who opt for this service would receive a Notice of risk and is suitable only for financially sophisticated investors.
Availability via e-mail from Computershare with a link to the relevant section of the Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future website where the documents can be viewed and printed.
The value of your investment in the Company and the income from it can fluctuate as the value of the For more information, to view the terms and conditions and to underlying investments fluctuates.
register for this service, please visit Computershares internet site at www.
com register uk you will need your Duration of the Company shareholder reference number, which is given on your share Shareholders are given an opportunity at each AGM to vote on certificate.
an ordinary resolution to continue the life of the Company for a further twelve months.
Electronic proxy voting Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes electronically via Nominee Code Computershares internet site at www-uk.
com proxy Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the using a unique identification PIN which will be provided with Company undertakes: voting instructions and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies or give shareholder communications, so long as an indication of an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy appointment quantities has been provided in advance: service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST manual.
More details are set out in the notes on the form of proxy to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available: Risk Factors As the Company invests worldwide, the value of its shares is that investors in the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts Savings also affected by changes in rates of exchange.
Plan are automatically sent shareholder communications, including details of general meetings, together with a form The price at which the Companys shares trade on the London of direction to facilitate voting and to seek authority to Stock Exchange is not the same as their net asset value attend: and although they are related and therefore you may realise returns which are lower or higher than NAV performance.
that investors through the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts ISA or PEP are able to receive the annual and interim reports, A lack of growth in world industrial production may adversely including details of annual general meetings, by request.
Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary Deteriorating economic conditions in certain countries may authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys lead to aggressive exporting of their metal and mineral general meetings.
production potentially leading to price reductions.
Publication of net asset value portfolio analysis There may be exposure to significant currency, political and The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is nationalisation risks due to the location of the operation of calculated daily, with details of the Companys investments and companies in which the Company may invest.
Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 45 Shareholder Information continued The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released For more information on PEP transfers, or an existing Merrill through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service Lynch Investment Trusts PEP, call free on 0800 445522. and are available on the MLIM website at www.
co. uk its and through the Reuters News Service under the code Shareholder enquiries MLIMINDEX, on page 8800 on Topic 3 ICV terminals and The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
under MLIM on Bloomberg monthly information only.
In the event of queries regarding your holding of shares, please contact the registrar on 0870 702 0131.
Changes of name or Internet address must be notified in writing to the registrar at: Other details about the Company are also available on the MLIM website at www.
co. uk its and shareholders can Computershare Investor Services PLC check details of their holdings on Computershares website at PO Box 82, The Pavilions www-uk.
com investor Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH The financial statements and other literature is published on the MLIM website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that Certain details relating to your holding can also be checked legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation through the Computershare website.
As a security check, and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from specific information needs to be input accurately to gain access legislation in their jurisdiction.
This includes your shareholder reference number, available from either your share certificate or Savings Plan tax voucher.
The address of the Computershare website is The Company participates in the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts www-uk.
com investor Savings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys General enquiries ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: the Savings Plan should call MLIM free on 0800 445522.
The Secretary Individual Savings Accounts ISA Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc ISAs are a tax-efficient method of investment, introduced by the 33 King William Street Government.
The Company is a qualifying investment for the London EC4R 9AS purposes of investment in the stocks and shares component of Telephone: 0800 445522. either a mini or maxi ISA.
Investors may invest up to 7,000 in the stocks and shares component of a maxi ISA, or up to 3,000 Enquiries about the Savings Plan, ISA or PEP should be in the stocks and shares component of a mini ISA.
directed to: The Companys shares are eligible investments within the stocks The Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts Administrator and shares component of the Merrill Lynch Investment Trusts FREEPOST NAT 6404 ISA, which is a maxi ISA, details of which are available from Basildon SS15 5ZZ MLIM by calling free on 0800 445522.
Personal Equity Plan PEP PEPs have been superseded by ISAs as the tax-efficient method of investment, but all PEP investments already in force by 5 April 1999 retained their tax-free status in line with ISAs.
Existing PEPs with other fund managers may be transferred to MLIM for investment in the Companys ordinary shares without affecting any tax benefits.
