Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eleventh Annual General of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be Meeting of Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc will be held at practicable to their respective holdings of such shares, 33 King William Street, London EC4R 9AS on Thursday, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as 17 March 2005 at 2.30 p. m. to transact the following business: the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical Ordinary business problems under the laws of any territory, or the 1.
To receive the report of the directors and the financial requirements or any recognised regulatory body or stock statements for the year ended 31 December 2004, together exchange, or any other matter whatever: with the report of the auditor thereon.
b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above up 2.
To approve the directors remuneration report.
to an aggregate nominal amount of 407,000: c at a price of not less than net asset value per share plus 3.
To declare a final dividend of 1.75p per ordinary share.
costs of the relevant sale as close as practicable to the 4.
To re-elect Mr P S Wilmot-Sitwell as a director.
allotment or sale: and shall expire on 16 September 2006, except that the 5.
To re-elect Mr G H Sage as a director.
Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements 6.
To elect Mr O A G Baring as a director.
which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or sold after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the 7.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to the Company.
Directors may allot or sell equity securities in pursuance of such offers or agreements.
To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
That, in substitution for the Companys existing authority to make market purchases of ordinary shares of 5p in the Special business Company ordinary shares, the Company be and it is To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the an ordinary resolution.
Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of ordinary 9.
That the Company shall continue in being as an investment shares provided that: trust.
a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as authorised to be purchased is 24,400,000: special resolutions.
b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary 10.
That, in addition to the power granted at the Extraordinary share is its nominal value exclusive of expenses : General Meeting on 25 March 2004, the directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered pursuant to section c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary 95 of the Act to allot equity securities as defined in section share shall be the lower of 5% above the average of the 94 of the Act of the Company for cash, pursuant to the market values of the ordinary shares for the five business authority conferred by the resolution to allot relevant days immediately preceding the date of the purchase and securities passed on 19 March 2003 and to sell equity the net asset value per ordinary share on the date of the securities within the meaning of section 94 of the Act purchase: and which are held by the Company in treasury as defined in d unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall Section 162A 3 of the Act, as if section 89 1 of the Act did expire on 16 September 2006 save that the Company not apply to any such allotments and sales, provided that may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to this power shall be limited to the allotment and sale of purchase ordinary shares which will or may be completed equity securities: or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights, open offer or other offer of securities, to holders Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc 47 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued All ordinary shares purchased pursuant to the above authority shall be either: a cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase: or b held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act.
By order of the Board Merrill Lynch Investment Managers Group Services Limited Secretary 14 February 2005 Registered Office: 33 King William Street London EC4R 9AS Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote in his stead.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Proxy forms must reach the office of the Companys registrars in Bristol by 2.30 p. m. on 15 March 2005.
A form of proxy is provided to shareholders with the annual report.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Proxy votes can be submitted electronically at www-uk.
com proxy by using the PIN and SRN numbers printed on the form of proxy.
The latest time for the submission of proxy votes electronically is 2.30 p. m. on 15 March 2005.
If you are a CREST system user including a CREST Personal member you can appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted.
To appoint a proxy or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by Computershare ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which Computershare is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at 11.00 p. m. on 15 March 2005 the specified time.
If the meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the time applicable to the original meeting, the specified time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned meeting.
If, however, the meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
No service contracts exist between the Company and any of the directors, who hold office in accordance with letters of appointment and the Articles of Association.
