NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the offices of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on 3 August 2004 at 11.00 am.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
Baillie Gifford may record your call.
Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-fifth meaning of section 163 3 of the Act of By Order of the Board ordinary shares of 5p each in the capital Annual General Meeting of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held within the of the Company Shares, provided Baillie Gifford & Co offices of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, that: Managers and Secretaries Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL on 2 July 2004 a the maximum aggregate number of Tuesday, 3 August 2004, at 11.00 am for Shares hereby authorised to be the following purposes: purchased shall be 14.99% of the Notes issued ordinary share capital on the 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the date on which this resolution is meeting is entitled to appoint one or more Ordinary Business passed: proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on his 1.
To approve the Accounts of the her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of Company for the year to 30 April 2004 b the minimum price which may be the Company.
A Form of Proxy for the use of with the Reports of the Directors and of paid for a Share shall be 5p: members is enclosed.
c the maximum price exclusive of 2.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated expenses which may be paid for a Securities Regulations 2001, the Company 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration specifies that only those shareholders entered on Share shall be an amount equal to Report.
the Register of Members of the Company as at 105% of the average of the middle 6.00 pm on 1 August 2004 or, in the event 3.
market quotations as derived from the that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register of Daily Official List of the London Stock 4.
To re-elect Sir Charles Nunneley as a Members 48 hours before the time of any Exchange for the Shares for the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend or Director.
5 business days immediately vote at the meeting in respect of the number of preceding the date of purchase: and 5.
To elect Ms CC Ferguson as a Director.
ordinary shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries on the Register of d unless previously varied, revoked or 6.
To re-appoint  Members after 6.00 pm on 1 August 2004 or, renewed by the Company in general LLP as Auditors.
in the event that the meeting is adjourned, in the meeting, the authority hereby Register of Members 48 before the time of any conferred shall expire at the 7.
To authorise the Directors to determine adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in conclusion of the Annual General the remuneration of the Auditors.
determining the rights of any person to attend or Meeting of the Company to be held vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any in respect of the year ending 30 April provisions in any enactment, the articles of To consider and, if thought fit, pass the 2005 or, on 2 February 2006, association of the Company or other instrument following resolution as a Special Resolution: whichever is the earlier, save that the to the contrary.
That, in substitution for any existing Company may, prior to such expiry, 3.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford authority under section 166 of the enter into a contract to purchase Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Companies Act 1985 the Act, but Shares under such authority which Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA without prejudice to the exercise of any will or might be completed or PEP who wish to vote and or attend the meeting must complete and return the enclosed such authority prior to the date hereof, executed wholly or partly after the reply-paid Form of Direction.
the Company be authorised, in expiration of such authority and may accordance with section 166 of the Act, make a purchase of Shares pursuant 4.
No Director has a contract of service with the to make market purchases within the to any such contract.
