FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information How to Invest Share Register Enquiries This is not a recommendation to buy, sell The Companys shares are traded on the Computershare Investor Services PLC or hold shares in Monks.
If you are London Stock Exchange.
They can be maintains the share register on behalf of unsure of what action to take contact a bought by placing an order with a the Company.
In the event of queries financial adviser authorised under the stockbroker, by asking a professional regarding shares registered in your own Financial Services and Markets Act adviser to do so, or through the Baillie name, please contact the Registrars on 2000.
Please note that share values may Gifford savings vehicles see inside back 0870 702 0010.
By quoting the go down as well as up, which may cover for details.
reference number on your share certificate result in you receiving less than what you you can check your holding on the originally invested.
Registrars web site: Sources of Further Information on the www-uk.
com investor Company Computershare Investor Services PLC is The price of shares is quoted daily in the authorised and regulated by the Financial Times and can also be found on Financial Services Authority.
the Baillie Gifford website at Telephone Share Dealing Service www.
com, Trustnet at A telephone share dealing service has Where this has been received in a www.
co. uk and on other financial been established with our Registrar, country where the provision of such a websites.
Company factsheets are also Computershare Investor Services PLC, service would be contrary to local laws available on the Baillie Gifford website which provides shareholders with a way of or regulations, this should be treated as and are updated monthly.
These are buying or selling Monks Investment Trust information only.
available from Baillie Gifford on request.
PLC ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
There are no forms to complete Monks is an investment trust.
Investment Key Dates and the share price at which you deal will trusts offer investors the following: Ordinary shareholders normally receive two generally be confirmed to you whilst you dividends in respect of each financial year.
are still on the telephone.
Please ensure Participation in a diversified portfolio An interim dividend is paid in February and you have your Shareholder Reference of shares.
a final dividend is paid in August.
The Number SRN ready when making the Constant supervision by experienced AGM is normally held in July August.
The SRN appears on your share professional managers.
For further information about this Capital Gains Tax service please phone 0870 702 0000.
The Company is free from capital gains For Capital Gains Tax indexation tax on capital profits realised within its Please note that this share dealing service purposes, the market value of an ordinary portfolio.
share in the Company as at 31 March is not available to shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford 1982 was 70.5p.
This figure has not been restated for the five for one share split Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan, ISA and PEP.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51
