Corporate Information Directors Custodian Bankers B N A Hardman Chairman JP Morgan Chase Bank A J M Coats P A F Gifford Auditors M Glen Ernst & Young LLP Sir David Trippier RD DL H van der Klugt appointed 5 May 2004 Solicitors McGrigors Secretary and Registered office Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Stockbroker 123 St Vincent Street UBS Glasgow G2 5EA Arbuthnot Securities Limited 0141 306 7400 Website Registered in Scotland - Company Number 12725 www.
Please indicate how you wish your proxy to vote by placing a tick in the appropriate space.
Vote Withheld Resolution For Against Note 5 1.
To receive the Directors Report and Accounts 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 3.
To re-elect Mr P A F Gifford as a Director 5.
To re-elect Mr H van der Klugt as a Director 6.
To re-elect Ms M Glen as a Director 7.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors 8.
To authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors' remuneration 9.
To authorise the Company to purchase its own shares 10.
To authorise the Directors to allot shares 11.
To disapply pre-emption rights The biographies of Mr P A F Gifford, Mr H van der Klugt and Ms Glen are shown on pages 4 and 5 of the Annual Report.
Unless otherwise indicated the proxy will vote, or abstain from voting, as thought fit on any resolution on which you do not give a specific instruction and, unless otherwise stated on any other business including amendments to resolutions which may properly come before the meeting.
This form of proxy has been sent to you by post.
It may be returned by either of the following methods: in hard copy form by post or courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, Proxy Department, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: or, in the case of CREST members, by using the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
CREST members should refer to note 6 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this form of proxy in relation to the submission of a proxy appointment via CREST.
In each case the proxy appointment must be received not less than 48 hours before the time for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting together except in the case of appointments utilising the CREST electronic appointment service with any authority or a notorially certified copy of such authority under which it is signed.
Where this form of proxy is executed by a corporation it must be either under its common seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
"If any other proxy be desired strike out the words ""the Chairman of the meeting"" and insert the name or names preferred."
Any alteration must be initialled.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company, but must attend the meeting to represent you.
In the case of joint holders, the signature of any one holder will be sufficient but the names of all the joint holders should be stated.
The Vote Withheld option is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
It should be noted that a Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes For and Against a resolution.
Third Fold and Tuck In BUSINESS REPLY SERVICE Licence No.
MB 122 1 Capita Registrars PO Box 125 Beckenham Kent BR3 4BR Second Fold Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 10 Queens Terrace Aberdeen AB10 1YG Tel 01224 631999 Fax 01224 647010 123 St. Vincent Street Glasgow G2 5EA Tel 0141 306 7400 Fax 0141 306 7401 Authorised and Regulated by The Financial Services Authority Member of the Aberdeen Asset Management Group of Companies 02 1016 0904
