Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 82 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Cairn Energy PLC will be held on the fourth floor at the Companys registered office at 50 Lothian Road, Edinburgh EH3 9BY on Friday 3 June 2005 at 12 noon for the following purposes: As Routine Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 8 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1 That the report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 be received.
2 That the directors remuneration report contained in the report and accounts be approved.
3 That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as auditors and that the directors be authorised to fix their remuneration.
4 That Andrew Shilston, who retires at the first Annual General Meeting following his appointment, be elected as a director.
Mr Shilston is a member of the audit committee.
5 That Norman Murray, who retires by rotation, be re-elected as a director.
Mr Murray is currently a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
Following the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, Mr Murray will stand down as a member of the audit and remuneration committees.
6 That Hamish Grossart, who retires pursuant to the provisions of the Combined Code, be re-elected as a director.
Mr Grossart is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
7 That Ed Story, who retires by rotation, be re-elected as a director.
Mr Story is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
8 That Bill Gammell, who retires by rotation, be re-elected as a director.
Mr Gammell is a member of the nomination committee.
As Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolution 9 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 10 to 12 will be proposed as special resolutions: 9 That, in substitution for any existing authority pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act and in accordance with section 80 of the Act and so that expressions used in this resolution shall bear the same meanings as in that section, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the date hereof, the directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to allot relevant securities of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,309,878.80, provided that this authority shall expire on 2 June 2010 unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, but shall allow and enable the directors of the Company to make offers or agreements in relation to relevant securities before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted in pursuance of such offers or agreements after the expiry of such period and to make allotments pursuant to such offers or agreements notwithstanding that such period has expired.
10 That a the 49,999 non-voting redeemable preference shares of 1.00 each which currently form part of the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company be and are hereby cancelled and the share capital of the Company be modified accordingly: and b the regulations contained in the document submitted to the Annual General Meeting and, for the purposes of identification, signed by the Chairman of the Company as relative to this resolution be and are hereby approved and adopted as the new articles of association of the Company and in substitution for and to the entire exclusion of the existing articles of association of the Company.
11 That, in substitution for any existing power under section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered, pursuant to section 95 1 of the Act, to: Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 83 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued a allot equity securities as defined in section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority referred to in resolution 9 above as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment: and b sell relevant shares as defined in section 94 5 of the Act in the Company if, immediately before the sale, such shares are held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in section 162A 3 of the Act treasury shares for cash as defined in section 162D 2 of the Act, as if section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to any such sale, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,309,878.80, such power to expire on 2 June 2010, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting, provided that such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities and the sale of treasury shares: i in connection with an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors of the Company to the holders of ordinary shares in the share capital of the Company on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as practicable to their respective holdings of such ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors of the Company may consider necessary or expedient to deal with legal problems under or resulting from the application or apparent application of the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or in connection with fractional entitlements or otherwise howsoever : and ii other than pursuant to sub-paragraph i of this resolution, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 796,481.80: save that the Company may, at any time prior to the expiry of such power, make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted or treasury shares to be sold after the expiry of such power and the directors of the Company may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such power had not expired.
12 That, in substitution for any existing authority pursuant to section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be and is hereby generally authorised to make market purchases pursuant to and in accordance with section 166 of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company the ordinary shares and each an ordinary share upon and subject to the following conditions but otherwise unconditionally: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 14.99% of the ordinary share capital of the Company as at 3 June 2005: ii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each such ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary share is purchased and the minimum price which may be paid for each such ordinary share shall be 10 pence exclusive of expenses : and iii unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on the earlier of 2 December 2006 or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed, provided that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of such contract.
By order of the Board Duncan Wood Company Secretary 50 Lothian Road Edinburgh EH3 9BY 4 May 2005 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 84 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes: 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy accompanies this Annual Report and must be lodged with the Company at the office of its registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6ZR the Registrars or received via the Sharevote service see Note 2 below a not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting or any adjournment s thereof, or b lodged using the CREST proxy voting service see Note 5 below.
Only holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend in person or by proxy and vote at the meeting.
The appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting from doing so if he or she wishes.
2 Members may register their proxy appointments or voting directions electronically via the www.
co. uk website, where full details of the procedure are given.
Members will need the Reference Number, Card ID and Account Number set out on the form of proxy which accompanies this Annual Report.
If more than one proxy appointment per member is returned, either by paper or by electronic communication, those received last by the Registrars before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Members are advised to read the terms and conditions of use carefully.
Electronic communication facilities are available to all shareholders and those who use them will not be disadvantaged.
The Company will not accept any communication that is found to contain a computer virus.
3 There will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any week day excluding public holidays from the date of this notice until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting, copies of the following documents: a the register of directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company: b the executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment: and c the Companys memorandum of association and articles of association and a revised draft of the articles of association marked to show the amendments that it is proposed be made pursuant to resolution 10.
4 The Company, pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, hereby specifies that only those shareholders registered on the register of members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 1 June 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 6.00 pm on 1 June 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any provisions in any enactment, the articles of association of the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
5 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 June 2005 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 85 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Registrars by no later than 6.00 pm on 1 June 2005.
No such message received through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Registrars are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
6 This Notice of Annual General Meeting should be read in conjunction with the sections of the Annual Report entitled Board of Directors on pages 20 and 21 and Directors Report on pages 32 to 37.
