Independent Auditors Report | 141 Independent Auditors Report to Old Mutual plc on the Achieved Profits Basis Supplementary Information for the year ended 31 December 2004 We have audited the supplementary information on pages 142 to 155 BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION in respect of the year ended 31 December 2004.
The supplementary We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards information has been prepared in accordance with the guidance issued issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, in December 2001 by the Association of British Insurers entitled on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Supplementary Reporting for Long Term Insurance Business the in the supplementary information.
It also includes an assessment of Achieved Profits Method the Guidance using the methodology the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in and assumptions set out on pages 142 to 155.
The supplementary the preparation of the supplementary information, and of whether information should be read in conjunction with the primary financial the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, statements which are on pages 57 to 137. consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted supplementary information stated on the achieved profits basis is free by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy have formed.
of the presentation of the supplementary information.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS OPINION As described on page 140, the directors responsibilities include In our opinion, the achieved profits supplementary information for the preparing the supplementary information on the achieved profits basis year ended 31 December 2004 has been properly prepared in accordance in accordance with the Guidance issued by the Association of British with the Guidance using the methodology and assumptions set out on Insurers.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditors, in relation to pages 142 to 155. the supplementary information are established in the United Kingdom by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance KPMG Audit Plc and the terms of our engagement.
Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the London EC4Y 8BB Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has been properly prepared in accordance with the Guidance using the 28 February 2005 methodology and assumptions set out on pages 142 to 155.
We also report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
