NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Continued 8 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Act on the London Stock Exchange PLC of ordinary shares of 10p each in the share capital of the Company Ordinary Shares provided that:- a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 11,900,000 representing approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital : b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10p: c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market price shown in the quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: d unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company: and e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
By order of the Board John G Gemmell Company Secretary Registered and Head Office: St Catherines Court Herbert Road Solihull West Midlands B91 3QE 15 December 2004 Registered in England No.
2336032 A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint a proxy to attend on his behalf and, on a poll, to vote instead of such member.
A proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
A proxy form is enclosed for use in connection with the meeting.
Proxy forms and any power of attorney or other written authority under which they are executed or an office or notarially certified copy thereof should be lodged with the Registrar of the Company at the address shown on the reverse of the proxy form not less than forty-eight hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting.
The appointment of a proxy will not preclude a shareholder from attending and voting at the meeting.
The register of directors interests and copies of directors service contracts will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this notice until the date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting from 10.00 a. m. on the date of such meeting until the conclusion thereof.
The Report and Accounts have been sent to the Companys shareholders.
Biographical details of all directors are provided on pages 12 and 13.
74 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC
