NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS Continued NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING FOR THE YEAR TO 30 SEPTEMBER 2004 TO ALL SHAREHOLDERS 36.
CAPITAL COMMITMENTS NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the sixteenth Annual General Meeting of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC will be held at There were no capital commitments 2003: nil contracted but not provided for.
Butchers Hall, 87 Bartholomew Close, London EC1A 7EB on 9 February 2005 at 10.30 a. m. for the following purposes: 37.
FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS AS ORDINARY BUSINESS 1 To receive and consider the Companys Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2004 and the Reports of the Directors At 30 September 2004 the Group had commitments to make annual payments under operating leases which expire as follows: and the Auditors.
2004 2003 2 To consider and adopt the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration.
4 To re-appoint as directors a Mr N Keen and b Mr C D Newell both of whom retire under Article 77 : and Plant and machinery c Mr R G Dench who retires under Article 83.
Within one year 0.1 - Land and buildings 5 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors and to authorise the directors to fix their remuneration.
Within one year 0.1 - Between two and five years 0.1 0.1 AS SPECIAL BUSINESS Over five years 4.9 4.9 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass resolution 6 as an ordinary resolution and resolutions 7 and 8 as special resolutions: 5.2 5.0 Ordinary Resolution The company had no such commitments.
6 THAT the Board be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in substitution for all subsisting authorities to the extent unused to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,264,200 PROVIDED THAT this authority shall expire 38.
EVENTS OCCURING AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless On 26 October 2004 the Group disposed of the entire share capital of its subsidiary NHL Reversions Limited for a consideration previously revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting save that the Company may before such expiry make an of 2.0m payable in cash.
The results of NHL Reversions for the year are not shown as discontinued activities in the Group offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may accounts as they are immaterial to the results of the Group.
allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
On 27 October 2004 the Group issued 1,000.0m of Mortgage Backed Floating Rate Notes through a subsidiary company, Paragon Mortgages No.
8 PLC, to refinance existing borrowings.
The Notes were denominated in sterling and euros.
Special Resolutions On 15 December 2004 the Group issued 300.0m of Asset Backed Floating Rate Notes through a subsidiary company, Paragon 7 THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 6, the Board be and it is hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Secured Finance No.
1 PLC, to refinance existing borrowings.
The Notes were denominated in sterling.
Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 6 as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, PROVIDED THAT this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer in favour of ordinary shareholders and in favour of all holders of any other class of equity security in accordance with the rights attached to such class where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all such persons on a fixed record date are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Board may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or any other matter whatsoever : and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 599,400, and shall expire upon the renewal of this power or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
72 THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC THE PARAGON GROUP OF COMPANIES PLC 73
