37 Group Accounting Policies BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated accounts deal with the results of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2004.
ACCOUNTING CONVENTION The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation of investments other than subsidiary undertakings.
The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Group has adopted the recommendations of the Statement of Recommended Practice on Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies 2003.
INVESTMENT INCOME Dividend income is credited to the revenue account on an ex-dividend basis.
Interest is credited on an accruals basis.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 16, Current Taxation, UK dividend income is shown at the amount receivable without any attributable tax credit.
Overseas dividend income is shown gross of withholding tax.
EXPENSES All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses are charged through the revenue account except as listed below: Expenses are charged to capital reserve where a direct connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
Expenses are charged to revenue where there is an indirect connection.
Investment management fees are considered to be indirect costs and are therefore charged to the revenue account.
Performance fees are charged to capital reserve as they derive from the capital performance of the investments.
The Group has in force certain incentive arrangements whereby fees payable are based entirely on the increase in the values of certain unquoted investments.
The cost of these incentive arrangements is considered to be a direct cost of enhancing the value of these investments and is therefore charged to capital reserve.
The Group has in force long-term incentive arrangements for Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge, both executive Directors of RITCP, and for other senior executives, whereby they receive additional remuneration based entirely on any increase in the Companys share price subject to a performance condition.
The primary objective of the Company is to deliver long-term capital growth for its investors.
The costs of these arrangements derive principally from the capital performance of the Group and consequently the Directors consider it appropriate to charge the costs of these arrangements in their entirety to capital reserve.
The Group has an Executive Bonus Plan for Lord Rothschild and Duncan Budge, whereby they receive a bonus calculated by reference to the Companys three-year moving average outperformance over three key total return indices.
The amount of the bonus depends principally on the capital performance of the Group and therefore the Directors consider it appropriate to charge the whole of the bonus to capital reserve.
FINANCE COSTS Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis and in accordance with the provisions of Financial Reporting Standard 4, Capital Instruments.
Since these costs are considered to be an indirect cost of maintaining the value of the investments they are charged in full to the revenue account.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 38 Group Accounting Policies FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS Fixed asset investments are included in the balance sheet at mid-market value in the case of listed investments and at Directors valuation in the case of unlisted investments.
The principal methods used by the Directors to value unlisted investments are set out in the Review of Principal Investments on page 7.
Investment properties are included at open market value on an existing use basis.
A valuation of properties is undertaken by independent professionally qualified valuers every year and reviewed every half year.
In accordance with SSAP19, Accounting for Investment Properties, depreciation is not provided on investment properties.
This is a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act concerning depreciation of fixed assets.
However, these properties are not held for consumption but for investment and the Directors consider that systematic annual depreciation would be inappropriate.
The accounting policy adopted is therefore necessary for the accounts to give a true and fair view.
Depreciation is only one of the many factors reflected in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been shown cannot be separately identified or quantified.
Subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost.
In accordance with the normal practice for investment trust companies, profits and losses on the realisation and revaluation of fixed asset investments are taken to capital reserve.
Costs incurred in connection with abortive fixed asset investment transactions are also taken to capital reserve.
DEALING INVESTMENTS Current asset investments held by the dealing subsidiary undertaking, including futures, options and other derivative instruments, are stated in the balance sheet at market value.
The movements in the fair value of trading positions are included in the revenue account.
The Companies Act 1985 requires that such assets be stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value and that, if revalued, certain movements in the fair value of trading positions be taken to a revaluation reserve.
In so far as the adopted treatment of trading positions represents a departure from current statutory requirements, the Directors consider this necessary for the financial statements to show a true and fair view.
This departure, which is consistent with industry practice, increased dealing profits in the statement of total return for the year ended 31 March 2004 by 1.5 million and increased net assets in the consolidated balance sheet by 1.5 million.
There was no effect on either dealing profits or net assets for the year ended 31 March 2003.
The departure has no effect on the net asset value per share published on a monthly basis and calculated in accordance with industry guidelines.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Tangible fixed assets are shown at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets.
It is calculated by the Group on a straight line basis by reference to original cost, estimated useful life and residual value.
The period of estimated useful life for this purpose is between three and four years.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on translating fixed asset investments are taken to capital reserve together with gains and losses arising on foreign currency transactions and borrowings to the extent that such gains and losses arise from transactions and borrowings which are hedging investments denominated in foreign currencies.
All other gains and losses are dealt with in the revenue account.
TAXATION In view of the Companys status as an investment trust, and its intention to continue meeting the conditions required to obtain approval for the foreseeable future, the Company has not provided current or deferred tax on any capital gains or losses arising on the revaluation or disposal of investments.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Group Accounting Policies 39 DEFERRED TAXATION In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 19, Deferred Tax, deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise, based on current tax rates and on laws enacted by the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
PENSIONS J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited is a participating employer in a non-contributory funded, defined benefit retirement scheme, which is currently closed to new members and the assets of which are held in a trustee administered fund.
The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements of Financial Reporting Standard 17, Retirement Benefits, which permit the costs, accruals and prepayments recorded in the balance sheet to be reported under the requirements of SSAP24, Accounting for Pension Costs.
This is consistent with the basis adopted last year.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
Surpluses or deficits arising from experience adjustments and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions are amortised as an even percentage of the pensionable payroll over the expected remaining working lives of the participating employees.
CAPITAL RESERVE The following are accounted for in the realised capital reserve: gains and losses on the realisation of investments realised exchange differences of a capital nature expenses, together with the related taxation effect, charged to this reserve in accordance with the above policies realised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature.
The following are accounted for in the unrealised capital reserve: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at the year end unrealised exchange differences of a capital nature unrealised gains and losses on transactions undertaken to hedge an exposure of a capital nature.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
