61 Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of RIT Capital Partners plc will be held at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS on 8 July 2004 at 11 a. m. Gentlemen attending are requested to wear a jacket and tie in order to comply with the rules of The Royal Automobile Club.
The Meeting will be held for the following purposes: ORDINARY BUSINESS As ordinary business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following which are proposed as ordinary resolutions: 1.
To approve the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004: 2.
To approve the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2004: 3.
To declare a final dividend of 3.1p per ordinary share: 4.
To re-elect Lord Rothschild as a Director: 5.
To re-elect Charles Bailey as a Director: 6.
To re-elect Timothy Barakett as a Director: 7.
To re-elect Mikael Breuer-Weil as a Director: 8.
To re-elect Baron Lambert as a Director, under special notice: 9.
To re-elect Jean Pigozzi as a Director: 10.
To re-elect Michael Sofaer as a Director: and 11.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following which are proposed as special resolutions: 12.
THAT the authority conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 A of the Companys Articles of Association authority to allot, and to make offers or agreements to allot, relevant securities be hereby extended for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2005 and 30 September 2005: AND THAT such authority shall for that period relate to relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 52,282,722.
THAT the power conferred upon the Directors by Article 11 B of the Companys Articles of Association power to allot, or make offers or agreements to allot, equity securities as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to such allotment be hereby renewed for the period ending on whichever is the earlier of the date of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2005 and 30 September 2005.
THAT the Company be authorised to purchase up to an aggregate of 23,511,540 ordinary shares of 1 each of the Company or such a number of ordinary shares as represents 14.99% of the Companys issued capital at the date of the Meeting, whichever is less at a price exclusive of expenses which is: a not less than 1 per share: and b not more than 5% above the arithmetical average of the middle-market quotations as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days preceding any such purchase: AND THAT the authority conferred by this Resolution shall expire on 30 September 2005 except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was concluded before such date and which might be executed wholly or partly after such date.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 62 Annual General Meeting 15.
THAT the Articles of Association be amended as follows: 1.
By the deletion of the existing Article 86 and the substitution therefor of the following: Each Director shall retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in which he was elected or last re-elected or, in the case of any Director not holding executive office, if nine years or more shall have elapsed since he was first appointed a Director, at each Annual General Meeting held thereafter but in each case, unless he falls within Article 87 below, he shall be eligible for re-election.
By the deletion of the existing Article 87 and the substitution therefor of the following: A Director shall also retire at any Annual General Meeting if he has agreed to do so whether in accordance with the terms of his appointment or otherwise and, unless the Directors have agreed otherwise, he shall not be eligible for re-election: 3.
By the amendment of the existing Article 91 as follows: by the removal of the words and any person so appointed shall be treated for the purpose of determining the time at which he or any other Director is to retire by rotation as if he had become a Director on the day on which the Director in whose place he is appointed was last elected a Director: 4.
By the amendment of the existing Article 92 as follows: by the removal of the words but shall not be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting.
By the amendment of Article 2 as follows: by the amendment of the existing definition of In writing by the insertion immediately after the words Written or produced by any substitute for writing or partly one and partly another of the following: including but only to the extent that the recipient if not the Company has requested or agreed electronic communication.
: by the insertion immediately after the definition of Secretary of the following: The expressions communication and electronic communication shall have the same respective meanings as in the Electronic Communications Act 2000, the latter including, without limitation, e-mail, facsimile, CD-Rom, audio tape and telephone transmission and in the case of electronic communication by the Company in accordance with Article 133 B a publication on a website.
The expression address shall include, in relation to electronic communication, any number or address used for the purposes of such communication.
By the amendment of Article 133 as follows: by the insertion immediately after the words it shall be sufficient to prove that such cover was properly addressed, stamped and posted.
of the following: Any document or notice which, in accordance with these Articles, may be sent by the Company by electronic communication shall, if so sent, be deemed to be received at the expiration of 24 hours after the time it was sent.
Proof in accordance with the formal recommendations of best practice contained in the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators that an electronic communication was sent by the Company shall be conclusive evidence of such sending.
By the insertion of a new Article 133 A as follows: Where under these Articles a document requires to be signed by a member or other person then, if in the form of an electronic communication, it must to be valid incorporate the electronic signature or personal identification details which may be details previously allocated by the Company of that member or other person, in such form as the Directors may approve, or be accompanied by such other evidence as the Directors may require to satisfy themselves that the document is genuine.
The Company may designate mechanisms for validating any such document, and any such document not so validated by use of such mechanisms shall be deemed not to have been received by the Company.
: RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual General Meeting 63 4.
By the insertion of a new Article 133 B as follows: Any member may notify the Company of an address for the purpose of his receiving electronic communications from the Company, and having done so shall be deemed to have agreed to receive notices and other documents from the Company by electronic communication of the kind to which the address relates.
In addition, if a member notifies the Company of his e-mail address, the Company may satisfy its obligation to send him any notice or other document by: a publishing such notice or document on a website: and b notifying him by e-mail to that e-mail address that such notice or document has been so published, specifying the address of the website on which it has been published, the place on the website where it may be accessed, how it may be accessed and if it is a notice relating to a shareholders meeting stating i that the notice concerns a notice of a company meeting served in accordance with the Act, ii the place, date and time of the meeting, iii whether the meeting is to be an annual or extraordinary general meeting and iv such other information as the Statutes may prescribe.
Any amendment or revocation of a notification given to the Company under this Article shall only take effect if in writing, signed by the member and on actual receipt by the Company thereof.
An electronic communication shall not be treated as received by the Company if it is rejected by computer virus protection arrangements.
By the amendment of Article 137 as follows: by the insertion immediately after the words In any such case the Company of the following: may still, where applicable, serve notice by electronic communication and: by the insertion immediately after the words shall send confirmatory copies of the notice by post of the following: to members to whom it was not sent by electronic communication.
By order of the Board J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Secretary 27 St Jamess Place London SW1A 1NR 24 May 2004 Notes Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude amember from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Copies of the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and Bank Holidays excepted until 8 July 2004 and at the place of the meeting from 10.45 a. m. until its conclusion.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
