Shareholder Information ShareGift Registered ofce and Group Corporate Centre The purpose of ShareGift is to make it easy for shareholders to donate 9th Floor, One Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, London EC3M 3BD.
any number of shares to charity.
The service can be particularly useful for Telephone: 44 0 20 7111 7000.
2339826. shareholders with a small number of shares, which would be uneconomic to sell.
Shares donated through ShareGift are transferred into the name Company website of The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered charity number 3150478.
The Annual Report & Accounts, interim results and other useful ShareGifts purpose is to realise as much value as possible by collecting information about the Company is available on the website shares, selling them and using the proceeds to make donations to a www.
com wide range of UK charities.
Further details can be obtained from: The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN.
Group Investor Relations For further information about Royal & SunAlliance, please contact the Telephone: 44 0 20 7337 0501.
The website address is www.
org Group Investor Relations department at: Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc, 9th Floor, One Plantation Place, 30 Fenchurch Street, London The Unclaimed Assets Register EC3M 3BD.
The Company supplies unclaimed dividend data to The Unclaimed Assets Register UAR, which provides investors who have lost track of Annual General Meeting AGM shareholdings with the opportunity to search the UARs database of Ordinary shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, unclaimed financial assets on payment of a small, xed fee.
The UAR which will be held in the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad donates part of the search fee to charity.
Further details can be obtained Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am on 27 May 2005. from: The Unclaimed Assets Register, Leconeld House, Curzon Street, Ordinary shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM to ask London W1J 5JA.
The website address a question in person may write to the Group Investor Relations is www.
co. uk department at the address above, or via the Company website.
Personal Equity Plans PEPs Disabled shareholders New investments in PEPs have not been permitted since 5 April 1999, when Royal & SunAlliance is committed to providing a quality service to all of the Government replaced PEPs with Individual Saving Accounts ISAs.
An induction loop will be installed at the AGM venue.
Investors who hold shares in an existing Royal & SunAlliance Corporate Please contact the Group Investor Relations department at the address PEP or Royal & SunAlliance Single Company PEP managed by Halifax above, or via the Company website.
Investment Services Limited can obtain full details of their investment from Halifax Investment Services, Mellon House, Ingrave Road, The Company will do its best to meet any requests for documentation in Brentwood, Essex CM15 8TG.
Please contact the Group Investor Relations department at the address above, or through the Company website.
Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA.
Share price The shareholder helpline telephone number is 0870 600 3988.
Overseas The Companys share price is shown on Ceefax BBC1 page 230, BBC2 callers should use 44 121 415 7064.
Shareholders with a text phone page 223 and on Teletext Ch4 page 515.
It is also available on the facility should use 44 0 870 600 3950.
Company website delayed by 20 minutes.
Please quote the company reference number 0059 and your Share dealing shareholder account number on your share certicate and dividend tax Shares can be bought or sold through a stockbroker, bank or building vouchers when contacting or corresponding with Lloyds TSB Registrars.
The rates of commission charged for share dealing services will The Company has appointed Lloyds TSB Registrars as its registrar to vary depending on the kind of service required.
The cheapest way to manage the shareholder register, to ensure that all information held deal in shares is usually on an execution only basis which means that about the Companys shareholders is kept up to date and to pay a broker will act on their clients instructions to buy or sell, but will not dividends.
Further details about the services provided by Lloyds TSB give advice on the merits of the transaction.
Registrars can be found on page 98.
The Company has established an execution only sharedealing service with Lloyds TSB Registrars for existing shareholders with a UK registered American Depositary Receipts address.
Shares can be bought or sold within minutes, between the hours The Companys ordinary shares are quoted on the New York Stock of 8.30am and 4.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday.
To deal, log on to Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs.
co. uk dealing or telephone 0870 850 0852.
Shareholders is equivalent to five ordinary shares.
ADSs are represented by American will need to have their share certicate s to hand when dealing.
The cost of dealing over the Internet is 0.5% of the value of the Any enquiry relating to registered ADR holdings should be addressed to: transaction, subject to a minimum charge of 17.50, plus 0.5% stamp Citibank Shareholder Services, PO Box 43077, Providence RI 02940-3077. duty reserve tax on purchases.
com adr The cost of dealing by telephone is 0.5% of the value of the transaction, The Annual Review & Summary Financial Statements are distributed to subject to a minimum charge of 20.00, plus 0.5% stamp duty reserve registered and beneficial ADR holders, followed by financial statements tax on purchases.
The Group les its annual report on Form 20-F and other information with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Capital Gains Tax The market value at 31 March 1982 of each post consolidation ordinary ADR dividends share of 27.5p in the Company, for capital gains tax purposes after ADR holders are eligible for stock dividends and other entitlements relevant adjustments, was 146.41p 25p shares 133.1p for former Royal accruing on the underlying Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc Insurance shareholders and 57.97p 25p shares 52.7p for former Sun ordinary shares and receive all cash dividends in US dollars.
An adjustment to tax cost is required to take are usually paid twice a year.
Dividend cheques are mailed directly to account of the 2003 rights issue, according to whether the rights were registered ADR holders on the ADR dividend payment date.
Dividends taken up or sold.
Similarly, for former Royal Insurance shareholders an on ADRs held via the Depositary Trust Company are subsequently paid adjustment to tax cost is required to take account of the 1993 rights to beneficial ADR holders in the Book Entry Only system.
issue, according to whether the rights were taken up or sold.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 97 Frequently Asked Questions Q Why do I receive multiple sets of information whenever you send A range of shareholder information is available on line at anything to me?
co. uk, including practical help on transferring shares or A If you have acquired shares on more than one occasion, your holdings updating details.
Shareholders can also register for secure access to their may have been recorded on the register of shareholders with slightly portfolio, enabling them to check holdings and register their email different details.
As a result, two or more accounts may have been address to receive shareholder information and the Annual Report & set up for you.
Sometimes multiple accounts are necessary, eg if you Accounts electronically.
At present, the portfolio service is free.
hold shares in your own name and also in joint names with a partner.
However, sometimes multiple accounts can be amalgamated.
Please QI have recently moved house.
contact Lloyds TSB Registrars to discuss whether your accounts can A Please notify Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing at the address on page 97. be amalgamated.
Remember to state clearly your old address.
If you hold shares in joint names, the letter must be signed by the first named person on the Q How can I get my dividends paid directly into my bank or building share certicate.
If you have previously registered for the Shareview society account?
portfolio service, you can log onto www.
co. uk and change AYou will need to supply your bank or building society account details your address electronically.
You can obtain a dividend payment mandate form from Lloyds TSB Registrars.
A copy of the form is also attached Q What should I do if I change my name?
when dividend cheques are mailed out.
ATo ensure that your shareholding is registered in your new name, please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars.
You will need to enclose Q Can I receive shares in lieu of cash dividends?
evidence of the change, for example, a copy of your marriage certicate or change of name deed please do not send originals, A The Company offers a scrip dividend scheme, which allows ordinary together with your share certicate s and any uncashed dividend shareholders to receive new ordinary shares of 27.5p each instead of cheques.
New documents will then be issued in the right name.
The scrip dividend scheme applies to both interim and final dividends, and enables shareholders to increase their holdings in Q My share certicate has been lost stolen.
How do I get a the Company without incurring dealing costs or stamp duty.
same time, the Company retains cash for reinvestment in the business, AYou should inform Lloyds TSB Registrars immediately.
They will send which would otherwise be paid out as a dividend.
you a form of indemnity to complete and request payment of an administration fee.
The form of indemnity is required to protect the QI would like to transfer shares to somebody I know.
How do I Company from the potential misuse of the missing share certicate, arrange this?
so must be returned before a new share certicate can be issued.
A Such transactions need not involve a stockbroker: you can use a stock transfer form.
The form can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars or QI have lost my dividend tax voucher.
printed from their website www.
co. uk ATo get a replacement, you will need to contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
If the lost voucher is more than six years old, a small fee will be Q How do I register the death of a shareholder?
A The first step is to write to Lloyds TSB Registrars, to let them know what you are going to do.
They will then place a temporary marker QI have found an out of date dividend cheque.
on the register to ensure that further dividend payments are not APlease send the out of date cheque to Lloyds TSB Registrars, with a issued in the late shareholders name.
They will also send you the request that they issue a replacement cheque.
There will be a small forms that you will need to complete.
administration charge for issuing replacement dividend cheques for larger payments.
QI would like to receive future communications electronically.
co. uk and create your own portfolio.
You will need your shareholder account number on your share certicate s and dividend tax vouchers to access this service.
Important disclaimer such statements due to various factors.
Such factors include general economic This document contains forward-looking statements as dened in the US Private conditions, including in particular economic conditions in the United Kingdom: Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
It contains forward-looking statements political and social conditions: the frequency, severity and development of and information relating to the Companys financial condition, results of insured loss events, including catastrophes and man made disasters: the operations, business, strategy and plans, and general industry outlook including availability and pricing of, and ability to collect on, reinsurance: the ability to trends in results, prices, volumes, operations, margins, overall market conditions, exclude and to reinsure the risk of loss from terrorism: mortality and morbidity risk management and exchange rates based on currently available information.
experience and trends: policy renewal and lapse rates: uctuations in interest These statements are often, but not always, made through the use of words or and ination rates: returns on and uctuations in the value of the Companys phrases such as aim, anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, investment portfolios: corporate bankruptcies: uctuations in foreign currency intend, may, plan, seek, should or will or the negative of these terms or exchange rates: the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends: a downgrade similar expressions.
The specic forward-looking statements cover, among other in the Companys financial strength or claims paying or other credit ratings: matters, our strategy and operational objectives: financial results: restructuring adverse changes in laws and regulations: adverse outcomes in judicial decisions plans, our expense savings, completion of disposals, losses related to the US and rulings and general competitive factors, and other risks and uncertainties, financial enhancement products, capital and solvency requirements in the UK, including those detailed in the Companys lings with the US Securities and regulatory position in the US, effect of litigation on the Companys financial Exchange Commission and the UK Listing Authority.
The Company undertakes position, delays in claims notications for asbestos and environmental claims no obligation to update or revise any of the forward-looking statements and adverse claims development on long tail business and court judgments.
publicly, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, Actual future results and trends could differ materially from those set forth in save in respect of any requirement under applicable law or regulation.
98 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Financial Calendar 10 March 2005 11 August 2005 Announcement of the full year results for 2004, the ordinary final Announcement of the interim results for the six months ended dividend for 2004 and the first preference dividend for 2005 30 June 2005, the ordinary interim dividend for 2005 and the second preference dividend for 2005 16 March 2005 Ex dividend date for the ordinary final dividend for 2004 and the first 17 August 2005 preference dividend for 2005 Ex dividend date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2005 18 March 2005 19 August 2005 Record date for the ordinary final dividend for 2004 and the first Record date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2005 preference dividend for 2005 24 August 2005 23 March 2005 Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary interim dividend for 2005 Announcement of the scrip dividend price for the ordinary final dividend for 2004 31 August 2005 Ex dividend date for the second preference dividend for 2005 1 April 2005 Payment date for the first preference dividend for 2005 2 September 2005 Record date for the second preference dividend for 2005 3 May 2005 Deadline for sending scrip dividend mandates to Lloyds TSB Registrars in relation to the ordinary final dividend for 2004 3 October 2005 Payment date for the second preference dividend for 2005 12 May 2005 Announcement of the results for the three months ended 1 November 2005 Deadline for sending scrip dividend mandates to Lloyds TSB Registrars 31 March 2005 in relation to the ordinary interim dividend for 2005 27 May 2005 10 November 2005 Annual General Meeting Announcement of the results for the nine months ended 30 September 2005 2 June 2005 Payment date for the ordinary final dividend for 2004 subject 30 November 2005 to shareholder approval at the AGM Payment date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2005 9 June 2005 7 December 2005 ADR payment date for the ordinary final dividend for 2004 ADR payment date for the ordinary interim dividend for 2005 subject to shareholder approval at the AGM provisional date Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 99 Notes 100 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Designed and produced by CGI Photography by Homer Sykes Printed in England by royle corporate print www.
