RBS Ann Review 50-53 7 3 05 10:42 am Page 53 53 Our 2004 performance potential.
The value of the Programme overall We employ 137,000 people worldwide.
was 46 million in 2004, making it one of the We are one of the largest corporate taxpayers in largest in Europe.
In 2004, dividends to shareholders totalled 2.1 billion and payments to suppliers were over Education 5 billion.
In 2004, our financial education programme, Face 2 Face With Finance, provided more than 84% of employees completed the 2004 5,000 lessons in financial education to over 150,000 Employee Opinion survey.
In 13 out of 14 categories pupils in 780 schools across the UK.
We are the the Group performed ahead of the ISR Global largest individual supporter to the Money Advice Financial Services norm.
Trust, donating 1.8 million over three years to provide advice for 800,000 people in financial hardship.
We provide 45% of the finance to businesses in the most deprived inner-city areas.
Aimhigher roadshows, which promote the benefits NatWest and the Royal Bank of Scotland are of university education, reached 119,000 young sponsoring Rethinking Regeneration: Enterprise people in the UK.
in conjunction with the Treasury.
The programme supports talented entrepreneurs in A new 3 million Supergrounds programme some of the UKs most deprived communities.
was announced to improve 450 primary school playgrounds.
Citizens Bank in the USA is working to extend its Outstanding Community Reinvestment Employment & enterprise Act rating to the newly acquired Charter One Bank.
In November 2004, the Group announced a 5 million extension over three years to its During 2004, the RBS Group established partnership with The Princes Trust.
800 employees a partnership with Green-Works, a social enterprise, volunteered for this good cause.
to ensure that all surplus Group furniture is recycled and reused by charities and educational Our support for Fairbridge and The Princes Trust establishments.
is helping 45,000 disadvantaged young people to improve their opportunities and prospects.
We have reduced courier mileage by an estimated 5 million miles per annum saving 40,000 single parents accessed free, confidential 500,000 litres of fuel.
35 miles of paper per night money advice through the RBS funded Lone Parent has been saved through delivering internal reports Helpline.
to our customer facing divisions electronically.
65,752 pieces of IT equipment were recycled.
Employee giving The RBS Give As You Earn scheme, which double matches monthly donations from our employees, Community investment raised 6.4 million for 2,800 charities.
Together with There are three principal elements to the Groups the Community Cashback Awards totalling 1.9 Community Investment Programme: Education, million, and the 1 million Christmas donation, the Employment & Enterprise, and Employee Giving.
three schemes generated a record 9.3 million in The Programme focuses on helping excluded charitable donations.
young people and communities realise their Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Corporate Responsibility RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 4:26 pm Page 54 54 Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 4:26 pm Page 55 Operating and financial review Contents 55 56 Presentation of information 57 Forward-looking statements 58 Description of business 60 Risk factors 60 Critical accounting policies 63 Accounting developments 66 Financial highlights 67 Summary consolidated profit and loss account 71 Analysis of results 79 Divisional performance 92 Consolidated balance sheet 94 Cash flow 95 UK GAAP compared with US GAAP 95 Capital resources 96 Risk management section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 4:26 pm Page 56 Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, The geographic analysis in the average balance sheet and the term company means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group interest rates, changes in net interest income and average plc, RBS or the Group means the company and its subsidiary interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have undertakings, the Royal Bank means The Royal Bank of been compiled on the basis of location of office UK and Scotland plc and NatWest means National Westminster Bank Plc.
Management believes that this presentation provides more useful information on the Groups yields, The company publishes its financial statements in pounds spreads and margins of the Groups activities than would be sterling or sterling.
The abbreviations m and bn provided by presentation on the basis of the domestic and represent millions and thousands of millions of pounds foreign activities analysis used elsewhere in this report as it sterling, respectively, and references to pence represent more closely reflects the basis on which the Group is 56 pence in the United Kingdom UK.
Reference to dollars or managed.
UK in this context includes domestic transactions $ are to United States of America US dollars.
The and transactions conducted through the offices in the UK abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands which service international banking transactions.
of millions of dollars, respectively, and references to cents represent cents in the US.
The abbreviation represents the The Group distinguishes its trading from non-trading activities euro, the European single currency and the abbreviations m by determining whether a business units principal activity is and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of euros, trading or non-trading and then attributing all of that units respectively.
activities to one portfolio or the other.
Although this method may result in some non-trading activity being classified as Certain information in this report is presented separately for trading, and vice versa, the Group believes that any resulting domestic and foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily misclassification is not material.
consist of the UK domestic transactions of the Group.
Foreign activities comprise the Groups transactions conducted In this report, the terms UK GAAP and US GAAP refer to through those offices in the UK specifically organised to generally accepted accounting principles GAAP in the UK service international banking transactions and transactions and the US, respectively.
conducted through offices outside the UK.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 57 Forward-looking statements Certain sections in this document contain forward-looking interest rate policies of the Bank of England, the Board of statements as that term is defined in the United States Private Governors of the Federal Reserve System and other G-7 Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as statements central banks: inflation: deflation: unanticipated turbulence in that include the words expect, estimate, project, anticipate, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity believes, should, intend, plan, probability, risk, Value-atprices and equity prices: changes in UK and foreign laws, Risk VaR, target, goal, objective, will, endeavour, outlook, regulations and taxes: changes in competition and pricing optimistic, prospects and similar expressions or variations on environments: natural and other disasters: the inability to such expressions including, but not limited to, sections such as hedge certain risks economically: the adequacy of loss reserves: Chairmans statement and Group Chief Executives review.
acquisitions or restructurings: technological changes: changes in consumer spending and saving habits: and the success of 57 In particular, this document includes forward-looking the Group in managing the risks involved in the foregoing.
statements relating, but not limited, to the Groups potential exposures to various types of market risks, such as interest The forward-looking statements contained in this document rate risk, foreign exchange rate risk and commodity and equity speak only as of the date of this report, and the Group does price risk.
Such statements are subject to risks and not undertake to update any forward-looking statement to uncertainties.
For example, certain of the market risk disclosures reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to are dependent on choices about key model characteristics and reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
assumptions and are subject to various limitations.
By their nature, certain of the market risk disclosures are only estimates For a further discussion of certain risks faced by the Group, and, as a result, actual future gains and losses could differ see Risk factors on page 60. materially from those that have been estimated.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by the forward-looking statements contained in this document include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions in the UK and in other countries in which the Group has significant business activities or investments, including the United States: the monetary and section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 58 Operating and financial review Description of business Customer choice and product flexibility are central to the Retail Introduction Banking proposition and customers are able to access The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company services through a full range of channels: branches, ATMs, the of one of the worlds largest banking and financial services internet and the telephone.
groups, with a market capitalisation of 55.6 billion at the end of 2004.
Headquartered in Edinburgh, the Group operates in the Retail Direct consists of the Groups non-branch based retail UK, US and internationally through its two principal subsidiaries, businesses.
Retail Direct issues a comprehensive range of the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest credit, charge and debit cards to personal and corporate are major UK clearing banks whose origins go back over 275 customers and provides merchant acquisition and processing years.
In the US, the Groups subsidiary, Citizens is ranked the facilities for retail businesses.
It also includes Tesco Personal 58 eighth largest commercial banking organisation by deposits.
Finance TPF, The One account, Direct Line Financial The Group has a large and diversified customer base and Services DLFS, Lombard Direct, WorldPay Limited, the provides a wide range of products and services to personal, Groups internet banking platform, the Primeline brand and in commercial and large corporate and institutional customers.
Europe, the Comfort Card businesses, all of which offer products to customers through direct channels.
The Group had total assets of 583 billion and ordinary shareholders equity of 27.3 billion at 31 December 2004.
It is During 2004 Retail Direct expanded its international operations.
strongly capitalised with a total capital ratio of 11.7% and tier 1 In the US, it acquired the credit card business of Peoples capital ratio of 7.0% as at 31 December 2004.
Bank, Lynk systems Inc. a leading merchant acquirer and entered into an agreement to issue credit cards to the Organisational structure and business overview customers of Kroger, a leading supermarket chain.
In The Groups activities are organised in the following business continental Europe, Retail Direct acquired Bibit NV, a leading divisions: Corporate Banking and Financial Markets, Retail internet payment specialist and agreed to provide consumer Banking, Retail Direct, Manufacturing, Wealth Management, finance services through the outlets of Tchibo, a leading RBS Insurance, Ulster Bank and Citizens.
each of the divisions is given below.
Manufacturing supports the customer facing businesses in the Corporate Banking and Financial Markets CBFM is the UK and Ireland and manages the Groups telephony, account largest provider of banking services to medium and large management and money transmission operations.
It is also businesses in the UK with growing presence in the US, Europe responsible for information technology operations and and Asia.
It provides an integrated range of products and development, global purchasing, property and other services.
services including corporate and commercial banking, treasury and capital markets products, structured and Manufacturing drives optimum efficiencies in high volume leveraged finance, trade finance, leasing and factoring.
processing activities, leverages the Group's purchasing power and has become a centre of excellence for managing large Within CBFM, Financial Markets provides corporate and scale and complex change programmes such as integration.
institutional customers with treasury services, including global interest rate derivatives trading, bond origination and trading, Wealth Management provides private banking and investment sovereign debt trading, futures brokerage, foreign exchange, services to its clients through a number of leading UK and money market, currency derivative and rate risk management overseas private banking subsidiaries and offshore banking services.
RBS Greenwich Capital, with headquarters in businesses.
Coutts is one of the worlds leading international Connecticut, US, delivers debt market solutions tailored to meet wealth managers with over 50 offices worldwide, including the needs of companies and institutions around the world.
Switzerland, Dubai, Monaco, Hong Kong and Singapore, as well as its premier position in the UK.
Adam & Company is the Retail Banking is one of the leading retail banks in the UK.
The major private bank in Scotland.
The offshore banking division comprises both the Royal Bank and NatWest retail businesses The Royal Bank of Scotland International and brands.
It offers a full range of banking products and related NatWest Offshore deliver retail banking services to local and financial services to the personal, premium and small business expatriate customers, and corporate banking and treasury markets.
services to corporate, intermediary and institutional clients, principally in the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
In the personal banking market, Retail Banking offers a comprehensive product range: money transmission, savings, RBS Insurance is the second largest general insurer in the UK, loans, mortgages and insurance.
In the small business market, by gross earned premiums.
Through the Direct Line, Churchill Retail Banking provides a full range of services which include and Privilege brands it sells and underwrites personal money transmission and cash management, short, medium insurance over the telephone and the internet in the UK.
and long-term financing, deposit products and insurance.
Through the red phone brand, RBS Insurance also sells and Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 59 underwrites personal insurance in Spain, Italy and Germany.
In the small business banking market, the Group competes UKI Partnerships is a leading provider of insurance and with other UK clearing banks, with specialist finance providers motoring related services through partner brands, including and building societies.
NIG sells personal and commercial products through a network of intermediaries, In the personal banking segment the Group competes with UK while Inter Group acts as an insurance administrator and Devitt banks and building societies, major retailers, life assurance Insurance Services operates as a specialist broker administrator.
In the mortgage market where the Group competes with UK banks and building Ulster Bank provides a comprehensive range of retail and societies, re-mortgaging activity by customers has been at a corporate banking services in Northern Ireland and the high level.
NatWest Life and Royal Scottish Assurance compete 59 Republic of Ireland.
In retail banking, Ulster Bank operates a with Independent Financial Advisors and life assurance network of branches throughout Ireland serving personal and companies.
The competitive situation in the long term savings commercial customers.
Corporate Banking and Financial market is dynamic due to the uncertainties created by Markets provides a wide range of services in the corporate regulatory change and continued evolution of institutions, and institutional markets.
particularly in the mutual sector.
In January 2004 Ulster Bank acquired First Active plc, a In the UK credit card market large retailers and specialist card leading provider of mortgages, retail savings and investment issuers, including major US operators, are active in addition to products in the Republic of Ireland.
First Active and Ulster the UK banks and building societies.
Competitive pressure Bank have retained their own distinctive brands, branch includes aggressive pricing, loyalty and reward schemes, and networks and customer propositions, with efficiencies derived packaged benefits.
In addition to physical distribution channels, from shared central manufacturing activities.
providers compete through direct marketing activity and, increasingly, the internet.
Citizens is the second largest commercial banking organisation in New England and the eighth largest commercial banking In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland International organisation in the US measured by deposits.
Citizens provides and NatWest Offshore compete with other UK and international retail and corporate banking services under the Citizens brand banks to offer offshore banking services.
Coutts and Adam & in the states of Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts, New Company compete as private banks with UK clearing and Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, and private banks, and with international private banks.
the Charter One brand in the states of Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, New York, Ohio and Vermont.
Through its branch RBS Insurance competes in personal lines insurance and to a network Citizens provides a full range of retail and corporate limited extent in commercial insurance.
There is competition banking services, including personal banking, residential from a range of insurance companies which now operate mortgages and cash management.
In addition, Citizens telephone and internet direct sales businesses.
RBS Insurance engages in a wide variety of commercial lending, consumer also competes with local insurance companies in the direct lending, commercial and consumer deposit products, motor insurance markets in Spain, Italy and Germany.
merchant credit card services, insurance products, trust services and retail investment services.
In Ireland, Ulster Bank and First Active compete in retail and commercial banking with the major Irish banks and building During 2004, Citizens completed the acquisitions of Thistle societies, and with other UK and international banks and Group Holdings, Co. the holding company of Roxborough building societies active in the market.
Competition is Manayunk Bank and Charter One Financial Group, Inc. the intensifying as both UK, Irish and other European institutions holding company of Charter One Bank.
seek to expand their businesses.
Competition In the United States, Citizens competes in the New England, The Group faces intense competition in all the markets it Mid-Atlantic and Mid-West retail and mid-corporate banking section serves.
In the UK, the Groups principal competitors are the markets with local and regional banks and other financial other UK retail and commercial banks, building societies institutions.
The Group also competes in the US in large 01 which are similar to savings and loans associations in the US corporate lending and specialised finance markets, and in and the other major international banks represented in London.
Competition is principally with the large US commercial and investment banks and Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK international banks active in the US.
is from UK banks and from large foreign financial institutions who are also active and offer combined investment and In other international markets, principally in continental Europe, commercial banking capabilities.
In asset finance, the Group the Group faces competition from the leading domestic and competes with banks and specialised asset finance providers, international institutions active in the relevant national markets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 60 Operating and financial review continued Risk factors Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the The Groups businesses are dependent on the ability to Groups future results and cause them to be materially different process a very large number of transactions efficiently and from expected results.
The Groups results are also affected by accurately.
Operational losses can result from fraud, errors by competition and other factors.
The factors discussed in this employees, failure to document transactions properly or to report should not be regarded as a complete and obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with regulatory comprehensive statement of all potential risks and requirements and Conduct of Business rules, equipment uncertainties.
failures, natural disasters or the failure of external systems, for example, the Groups suppliers or counterparties.
Although the The financial performance of the Group is affected by Group has implemented risk controls and loss mitigation 60 borrower credit quality and general economic conditions, in actions, and substantial resources are devoted to developing particular in the UK, US and Europe efficient procedures and to staff training, it is only possible to Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the be reasonably, but not absolutely, certain that such procedures recoverability of loans and amounts due from counterparties will be effective in controlling each of the operational risks are inherent in a wide range of the Groups businesses.
Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties or a general deterioration in UK, US, Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial European or global economic conditions, or arising from systemic regulation and regulatory oversight.
Any significant regulatory risks in the financial systems, could affect the recoverability developments could have an effect on how the Group and value of the Groups assets and require an increase in the conducts its business and on the results of operations provision for bad and doubtful debts and other provisions.
The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, administrative actions and policies in each location in which Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices the Group operates.
This supervision and regulation, in and other market factors affect the Groups business particular in the UK, if changed could materially affect the The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest Groups business, the products and services offered or the rate, foreign exchange and bond and equity price risks.
Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and Future growth in the Groups earnings and shareholder value borrowing costs.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the depends on strategic decisions regarding organic growth and sterling-dollar and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the potential acquisitions value of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign The Group devotes substantial management and planning currencies and affect earnings reported by the Groups nonresources to the development of strategic plans for organic UK subsidiaries, mainly Citizens, RBS Greenwich Capital and growth and identification of possible acquisitions, supported Ulster Bank, and may affect income from foreign exchange by substantial expenditure to generate growth in customer dealing.
The performance of financial markets may cause business.
If these strategic plans do not meet with success, changes in the value of the Groups investment and trading the Groups earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
The Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other market risks to Critical accounting policies which the Group is exposed.
However, it is difficult to predict The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting with accuracy changes in economic or market conditions and policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation to anticipate the effects that such changes could have on the of its financial statements.
The Groups principal accounting Groups financial performance and business operations.
policies are set out on pages 139 to 142.
UK company law and accounting standards require the directors, in preparing the The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting involving claims policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and Future claims in the Groups general and life assurance estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Where UK GAAP business may be higher than expected as a result of changing allows a choice of policy, Financial Reporting Standard FRS trends in claims experience resulting from catastrophic 18 Accounting Policies requires an entity to adopt those weather conditions, demographic developments, changes in policies judged to be most appropriate to its particular mortality and other causes outside the Groups control.
Such circumstances for the purpose of giving a true and fair view.
changes would affect the profitability of current and future insurance products and services.
The Group re-insures some The judgements and assumptions involved in the Groups of the risks it has assumed.
accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, assumptions or models that differ from those adopted by the Group would affect its reported results.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 61 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts Loans and advances recognition of interest income The Group provides for losses existing in its lending book so Interest receivable from loans and advances is credited to the as to state its loan portfolio at its expected ultimate net profit and loss account as it accrues unless there is significant realisable value.
Specific provisions are established against doubt that it can be collected.
If the collection of interest is in individual exposures and the general provision covers doubt, it is credited to a suspense account and excluded from advances impaired at the balance sheet date but which have interest receivable: it continues to be charged to the not been identified as such.
Bad and doubtful debt provisions customers account.
made during the year less amounts released and recoveries of amounts written-off in previous years are charged to the profit Pensions and loss account.
Loans and advances are reported on the The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension 61 balance sheet net of specific and general provisions.
schemes as described in Note 3 on the financial statements.
The assets of the schemes are measured at their fair value at For certain homogeneous portfolios, including credit card the balance sheet date.
Scheme liabilities are measured using receivables and other personal advances including mortgages, the projected unit method, which takes account of projected specific provisions are established on a portfolio basis, taking earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the credit scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
These cash flows are discounted at the significant factors in establishing these provisions are the interest rate applicable to high-quality corporate bonds of the expected loss rates and the related average life.
These factors same currency and term as the liabilities.
Any surplus or deficit are kept under constant review by the Group.
of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
An asset is only Other loans and advances are individually assessed and the recognised to the extent that the surplus can be recovered specific provision is determined from a review of the financial through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds condition of the borrower and any guarantor and takes into from the scheme.
In determining the value of scheme liabilities account the customers debt capacity and financial flexibility: assumptions are made as to price inflation, dividend growth, the level and quality of earnings: the amount and sources of pension increases, earnings growth and employees.
There is a cash flows: the industry in which the customer operates: and range of assumptions that could be adopted in valuing the the realisable value of any security held.
The most significant schemes' liabilities.
Different assumptions could significantly estimates that affect the quantum of a specific provision are alter the amount of the deficit recognised in the balance sheet the receipts from the borrower and the amount that will be and the pension cost charged to the profit and loss account.
recovered from any security held.
The assumptions underlying the 2004 deficit and pension cost are set out in Note 3 on the financial statements.
Evaluating these estimates involves significant judgement as receipts will depend on the future performance of the borrower Fair value and the value of security, both of which will be affected by Securities and derivatives held for trading purposes are future economic conditions.
Additionally, the security may not recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
In the be readily marketable.
balance sheet, trading securities are included within Treasury and other eligible bills, Debt securities and Equity shares as The general provision covers bad and doubtful debts that have appropriate.
Positive fair values assets of trading derivatives not been separately identified at the balance sheet date but are included in Other assets and negative fair values liabilities are known to be present in any portfolio of advances.
The level in Other liabilities.
Positive and negative fair values of trading of general provision is assessed in the light of past experience derivatives are offset where the contracts have been entered and reflects the size and diversity of the Groups loan portfolio, into under master netting agreements or other agreements that the current state of the economies in which the Group operates, give a legally enforceable right of set-off.
Gains or losses other factors affecting the business environment, recent trends arising from changes in fair value are included in Dealing in companies going into administration, receivership and profits in the profit and loss account.
section bankruptcy and the Groups monitoring and control procedures, including the scope of specific provisioning procedures.
Fair value is the value at which a position could be closed out 01 or sold in a transaction to a willing and knowledgeable The future credit quality of the Groups lending book is subject counterparty over a reasonable period of time under current to uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ market conditions.
Fair values are determined by reference to materially from reported loan loss provisions.
These observable market prices where available and reliable.
Where uncertainties include the economic environment, notably representative market prices for an instrument are not available interest rates and their effect on customer spending, the or are unreliable because of poor liquidity, the fair value is unemployment level, payment behaviour and bankruptcy trends derived from prices for its components using appropriate and changes in the Groups portfolios.
pricing or valuation models that are based on independently sourced market parameters, including interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and currency rates.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 62 Operating and financial review continued Securities carried at fair value include government, assetThe outstanding claims provision is based on information backed and corporate debt obligations and corporate equity available to management and the eventual outcome may vary shares.
Fair value for a substantial proportion of these from the original assessment.
Actual claims experience may instruments is based on observable market prices or derived differ from the historical pattern on which the estimate is based from observable market parameters.
Determining fair value for and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that assumed.
such instruments does not involve significant judgement.
Where observable prices are not available or if a position Goodwill could be liquidated only at an unfavourable price or over an The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of extended period, fair value is based on appropriate valuation businesses, as disclosed in the Accounting policies.
Goodwill techniques or management estimates.
is the excess of the cost of an acquisition and the fair value of 62 its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of assets and The Groups derivative products include swaps, forwards, futures liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of and options.
Exchange traded instruments are valued using management judgement: for example those financial assets quoted prices.
The fair value of over-the-counter instruments is and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices, and those derived from pricing models which take account of contract non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of terms, including maturity, as well as quoted market parameters market conditions such as property.
Different fair values would such as interest rates and volatilities.
Most of the Groups result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the postpricing models do not entail material subjectivity because the acquisition performance of the acquisition.
Under UK GAAP methodologies utilised do not incorporate significant judgement goodwill is amortised and there is a rebuttable presumption and the parameters included in the models can be calibrated that the useful economic life of purchased goodwill does not to actively quoted market prices.
Values established from pricing exceed 20 years from the date of acquisition.
The useful models are adjusted for credit risk, liquidity risk and future economic life of acquired goodwill is assessed on the basis of operational costs.
the type and diversity of the business, its location and the markets in which it operates.
Under US GAAP goodwill is not A negligible proportion of the Groups trading derivatives are amortised but is subject to annual review for impairment.
valued directly from quoted prices, the majority being valued using appropriate valuation techniques.
The fair value of An impairment test is designed to assess the recoverable substantially all securities positions carried at fair value is amount of an asset or, in the case of goodwill, an operating determined directly from quoted prices.
segment, by comparing its carrying value with the discounted value of future cash flows that it will generate.
Impairment General insurance claims testing inherently involves a number of judgmental areas: the The Group makes provision for the full cost of settling preparation of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond outstanding claims arising from its general insurance business the normal requirements of management reporting, the at the balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have valuation of the separable assets of each business whose been incurred but not yet reported at that date and claims goodwill is being reviewed and an assessment of the discount handling expenses.
Claims are recognised in the accounting rate appropriate to the business.
Under UK GAAP, impairment period in which the loss occurs.
tests are only undertaken in the year following an acquisition or when there is evidence that impairment might have occurred.
Provisions are determined by management based on US GAAP requires annual impairment tests that are different experience of claims settled and on statistical models which from any UK tests and accordingly they may support a different require certain assumptions to be made regarding the carrying value for the asset being tested.
incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific factors such as adverse weather conditions.
In order to calculate the total provision required, the historical development of claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, within acceptable probability parameters, the value of outstanding claims at the balance sheet date.
Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are other assumptions such as the inflationary factor used for bodily injury claims which is based on historical trends and, therefore, allows for some increase due to changes in common law and statute.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims handling expenses are also included.
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 63 Accounting developments Computer software under UK GAAP, most software UK GAAP development costs are written off as incurred.
Under IFRS, UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts and the such costs are capitalised if certain conditions are met and consequential amendment to UITF Abstract 17 Employee amortised over the estimated useful life of the software.
share schemes which are applicable for the year ended 31 December 2004 did not have a material effect on the Group.
Pensions the Group has implemented FRS 17 'Retirement Benefits' FRS 17 for 2004.
The measurement principles of this The Accounting Standards Board issued FRS 27 Life standard are similar to those required by IFRS.
IFRS, like FRS Assurance which introduces a new realistic method of 17, allow actuarial gains and losses to be recognised outside measuring life assurance liabilities and related assets.
The the profit and loss account.
However IFRS allow as alternatives 63 present value of in-force polices can continue to be actuarial gains and losses to be recognised in profit or loss recognised provided that future investment margins are not either in the period in which they occur or on a deferred basis.
The standard is applicable under UK GAAP for years ending on or after 31 December 2005 and is not expected to Share-based payments under UK GAAP, no compensation have a material effect on the Group.
expense is recognised for Inland Revenue approved Save-asyou-earn share option schemes or for other share option International Financial Reporting Standards schemes where the option has no intrinsic value i. e. where at In June 2002, the European Union adopted a regulation that date of grant the exercise price equals the market value.
IFRS requires, from 1 January 2005, listed companies to prepare require the fair value of share options at the date of grant to their financial statements in accordance with international be recognised as an expense accounting standards adopted by the EU.
The Groups 2005 financial statements will therefore be prepared in accordance Financial instruments: financial assets under UK GAAP, loans with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
are measured at cost less provisions for bad and doubtful These comprise not only IFRS but also International debts, derivatives held for trading are carried at fair value and Accounting Standards IAS.
hedging derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the treatment of the item being hedged see Derivatives and IFRS differ in certain significant respects from the Groups hedging below, and securities are classified as being held as accounting policies under UK GAAP.
The summary below investment securities, or held for dealing purposes.
Investment outlines the important differences for the Group in respect of debt securities are stated at cost less provision for any recognition and measurement on the basis of extant IFRS that permanent diminution in value.
Premiums and discounts on will be effective for 2005, including revised IAS 32 and IAS 39: dated securities are amortised to interest income over the period to maturity.
Other securities are carried at fair value.
Goodwill IFRS require goodwill arising on the acquisition of Under IFRS, financial assets are classified into held-to-maturity: subsidiaries or associates to be capitalised.
Amortisation of available-for-sale: held for trading: designated as fair value goodwill is prohibited but it must be tested annually for through profit or loss: and loans and receivables.
Financial impairment and whenever changes in circumstances indicate assets classified as held-to-maturity or as loans and impairment.
Under the Group's UK GAAP accounting policy, receivables are carried at amortised cost.
Other financial goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1998 is recognised as an assets are measured at fair value.
Changes in the fair value of asset and amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful available-for-sale financial assets are reported in a separate economic life.
Impairment tests are carried out at the end of component of shareholders equity.
Changes in the fair value of the first full accounting period after its acquisition, and financial assets held for trading or designated as fair value are whenever there are indications of impairment.
Goodwill arising taken to the profit and loss account.
Financial assets can be on acquisitions before 1 October 1998 was deducted from classified as held-to-maturity only if they have a fixed maturity reserves immediately.
Certain amounts that would be included and the reporting entity has the positive intention and ability to as goodwill under UK GAAP are recognised as intangibles hold to maturity.
Trading financial assets are held for the under IFRS.
Such intangibles are amortised over their useful purpose of selling in the near term.
IFRS allow any financial section lives unless they are regarded as having an indefinite useful asset to be designated as fair value through profit and loss on life in which case they are not amortised but tested for initial recognition.
Unquoted debt financial assets that are not 01 impairment annually and whenever changes in circumstances classified as held-to-maturity, held for trading or designated as indicate impairment.
fair value through profit or loss are categorised as loans and receivables.
All other financial assets are classified as Merger accounting IFRS require all business combinations available-for-sale.
to be accounted for as acquisitions by applying the purchase method.
UK GAAP requires business combinations meeting Effective interest rate and lending fees under UK GAAP, loan certain criteria to be accounted for using merger accounting.
origination fees are recognised when receivable unless they are charged in lieu of interest.
IFRS require origination fees to Dividends IFRS require dividends payable to be recorded in be deferred and recognised as an adjustment to the effective the period in which they are declared whereas under UK GAAP interest rate on the related financial asset.
The effective interest dividends are recorded in the period to which they relate.
rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash flows over Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 64 Operating and financial review continued an instruments expected life to its net carrying value.
It takes In a cash flow hedge and in the hedge of a net investment in a into account all fees and points paid that are an integral part of foreign operation, the element of the derivatives gain or loss the yield, transaction costs and all other premiums and that is an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity.
Under IFRS, the carrying value of a financial The ineffective element is taken to the profit and loss account.
instrument held at amortised cost is calculated using the Certain conditions must be met for a relationship to qualify for effective interest method.
These include designation, documentation and prospective and actual hedge effectiveness.
Loan impairment under UK GAAP, provisions for bad and doubtful debts are made so as to record impaired loans at their Embedded derivatives under IFRS, a derivative embedded in expected ultimate net realisable value.
IFRS require impairment a contract must be accounted for separately from the host 64 losses on financial assets carried at amortised cost to be contract if the embedded derivative has economic measured as the difference between the assets carrying characteristics that differ from those of the host contract.
There amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows is no equivalent requirement in UK GAAP.
discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Impairment must be assessed individually for individually Offset for a financial asset and financial liability to be offset, significant assets but can be assessed collectively for other IFRS require that an entity must intend to settle on a net basis assets.
or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
However, under UK GAAP an intention to settle net is not a Financial instruments: financial liabilities IFRS require all requirement for set off, although the entity must have the ability to financial liabilities to be measured at amortised cost except insist on net settlement and that ability is assured beyond doubt.
those held for trading and those that were designated as fair value through profit and loss on initial recognition.
Under UK Leasing under UK GAAP, finance lease income is recognised GAAP, short positions in securities and trading derivatives are so as to give a level rate of return on the net cash investment carried at fair value, all other financial liabilities are recorded at in the lease.
IFRS require a level rate of return on the net amortised cost.
In IFRS as adopted by the EU, the option to investment in the lease.
This means that under UK GAAP tax designate at fair value through profit and loss is not available.
cash flows are taken into account in allocating income but they are not under IFRS.
Liabilities and equity under UK GAAP, all issued shares are classified as shareholders funds, and analysed between equity Transition IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International and non-equity interests.
There is no concept of non-equity Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 1 will apply to the shares in IFRS.
Instruments are classified between equity and Group's 2005 financial statements.
The standard requires an liabilities in accordance with the substance of the contractual opening IFRS balance sheet to be prepared as at the date of arrangements.
A non-derivative instrument is classified as equity transition to IFRS, being the beginning of the earliest if it does not include a contractual obligation either to deliver comparative period presented under IFRS in its first IFRS cash or to exchange financial instruments with another entity financial statements the transition date.
Accounting policies under potentially unfavourable conditions, and if the instrument must comply with each IFRS effective at the reporting date of will or may be settled by the issue of equity, settlement does the first IFRS financial statements, and applied throughout all not involve the issue of a variable number of shares.
Derivatives and hedging under UK GAAP, non-trading In the opening balance sheet the entity: derivatives are accounted for on an accruals basis in accordance with the accounting treatment of the underlying recognises all assets and liabilities whose recognition is transaction or transactions being hedged.
If a non-trading required by IFRS, but not any assets or liabilities not derivative transaction is terminated or ceases to be an effective permitted by IFRS to be recognised: hedge, it is re-measured at fair value and any gain or loss amortised over the remaining life of the underlying transaction reclassifies items recognised under previous GAAP in or transactions being hedged.
If a hedged item is accordance with IFRS requirements: derecognised the related non-trading derivative is remeasured at fair value and any gain or loss taken to the profit and loss applies IFRS in measuring all recognised assets and account.
Under IFRS, all derivatives are measured at fair value.
Hedge accounting is permitted for three types of hedge relationship: fair value hedge the hedge of changes in the IFRS 1 provides certain optional exemptions from the above fair value of a recognised asset or liability or firm commitment: principles: cash flow hedge the hedge of variability in cash flows from a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction: and the Business combinations past business combinations need hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
In a fair value not be restated in accordance with IFRS 3 'Business hedge the gain or loss on the derivative is recognised in the Combinations'.
profit and loss account as it arises offset by the corresponding gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the risk hedged.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 65 IFRS 1 prohibits retrospective application of some aspects Fair value or revaluation as deemed cost the fair value of of IFRS: an item of property, plant or equipment, or a previous GAAP revaluation that approximates fair value of such an item, Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities may be treated as though it were the cost basis for the the derecognition requirements of IAS 39 are to be applied asset, with subsequent depreciation and impairment based prospectively for transactions occurring on or after 1 January on that amount.
However, an entity is permitted to apply the derecognition requirements retrospectively from a date of its choice.
Employee benefits under IAS 19 Employee Benefits, actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes may be Hedge accounting at the transition date, all derivatives unrecognised if they fall within a corridor.
On first time 65 must be measured at fair value.
Gains and losses deferred application, an entity may determine the unrecognised gains under previous accounting must be eliminated.
Hedge and losses from inception of the pension scheme and accounting for relationships that do not qualify under IAS 39 recognise only those that would be recognised under IAS must be discontinued in accordance with the hedge 19, or alternatively recognise all cumulative gains and losses termination rules in IAS 39. at the transition date.
Assets classified as held for sale and discontinued Cumulative translation differences cumulative translation operations entities with a transition date before 1 January differences on the net investment in a foreign operation prior 2005 must apply the transition rules in IFRS 5 Non-current to the transition date need not be calculated but set at zero.
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
Compound financial instruments split accounting required IFRS require at least one year of comparative data.
However by IAS 39 need not be applied for a compound financial this data need not comply with IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 instrument if the liability component is no longer outstanding Insurance Contracts.
If comparatives that do not comply with at the date of transition.
IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 are presented, then the date of transition for these standards will be the beginning of the first Designation of financial instruments an entity is allowed to IFRS reporting period.
designate a financial instrument as financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss on the US GAAP date of transition rather than on initial recognition as For a discussion of recent developments in US GAAP relevant required by IAS 39. to the Group, see Note 53 on the accounts.
Share-based payment transactions IFRS 2 Share-based Payment must be applied to equity instruments granted on or after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before the later of the transition date and 1 January 2005. section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 66 Operating and financial review continued Financial highlights 2004 2003 2002 for the year ended 31 December m m m Total income 22,754 19,281 17,016 Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs 8,101 7,068 6,540 Profit before tax 6,917 6,076 4,852 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,256 2,254 2,034 Cost:income ratio % 1 40.8 42.6 44.2 Basic earnings per share pence 138.0 76.9 70.6 Adjusted earnings per share pence 2 172.5 157.2 146.3 66 Dividend cover times 3 2.9 3.1 3.3 Adjusted after-tax return on equity % 4 20.1 20.1 18.3 2004 2003 2002 at 31 December m m m Total assets 583,467 454,428 411,038 Loans and advances to customers 345,469 252,531 223,324 Deposits 384,143 304,286 273,881 Shareholders funds 31,865 26,098 25,071 Risk asset ratio tier 1 % 7.0 7.4 7.3 total % 11.7 11.8 11.7 Notes: 1 Cost:income ratio represents operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and integration costs, and after netting operating lease depreciation against rental income, expressed as a percentage of total income.
2 Adjusted earnings per share is based on earnings per share adjusted for goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the Additional Value Shares dividend in 2002 and 2003.
3 Dividend cover represents the total ordinary dividend expressed as a multiple of profit attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted for goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the Additional Value Shares dividend in 2002 and 2003.
4 Adjusted after-tax return on equity is based on profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the Additional Value Shares dividend in 2002 and 2003, and average equity shareholders funds.
restated see page 139 Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 67 Summary consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2004 The profit and loss account set out below shows goodwill amortisation and integration costs separately.
In the statutory profit and loss account on page 143, these items are included in the captions prescribed by the Companies Act.
2004 2003 2002 m m m Net interest income 9,208 8,301 7,849 Dividend income 79 58 58 Fees and commissions receivable 6,634 5,693 5,249 Fees and commissions payable 1,954 1,337 965 Dealing profits 1,988 1,793 1,462 67 Other operating income 1,855 1,650 1,410 8,602 7,857 7,214 General insurance net premium income 4,944 3,123 1,953 Non-interest income 13,546 10,980 9,167 TOTAL INCOME 22,754 19,281 17,016 Staff costs 5,231 4,528 4,054 Other operating expenses 4,431 3,996 3,727 OPERATING EXPENSES 9,662 8,524 7,781 Profit before other operating charges 13,092 10,757 9,235 General insurance net claims 3,480 2,195 1,350 Operating profit before provisions 9,612 8,562 7,885 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 1,428 1,461 1,286 Amounts written off fixed asset investments 83 33 59 PROFIT BEFORE TAX, GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND INTEGRATION COSTS 8,101 7,068 6,540 Goodwill amortisation 915 763 731 Integration costs 269 229 957 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 6,917 6,076 4,852 Tax 2,155 1,888 1,582 Profit after tax 4,762 4,188 3,270 Minority interests including non-equity 250 210 133 Preference dividends non-equity 256 261 305 4,256 3,717 2,832 Additional Value Shares dividend non-equity 1,463 798 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,256 2,254 2,034 Basic earnings per ordinary share 138.0p 76.9p 70.6p Additional Value Shares dividend 49.9p 27.7p 138.0p 126.8p 98.3p Goodwill amortisation 28.7p 25.0p 24.2p Integration costs 5.8p 5.4p 23.8p Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 172.5p 157.2p 146.3p restated see page 139 section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 68 Operating and financial review continued 2004 compared with 2003 Operating expenses Profit Operating expenses, excluding goodwill amortisation and Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs integration costs, rose by 13% to 9,662 million to support the increased by 15% or 1,033 million, from 7,068 million to strong growth in business volumes.
At constant exchange rates the increase was at constant exchange rates, operating expenses were up by 18% or 1,278 million.
Profit before tax was up 14%, from 6,076 million to 6,917 Cost:income ratio million.
The Group's ratio of operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and integration costs and after netting operating 68 The Group made a number of acquisitions during 2004 which lease depreciation against rental income to total income had a bearing on the year's results.
These included: improved further to 40.8% from 42.6%.
Excluding Charter One, the Group's cost:income ratio was 40.6%.
In January 2004, Ulster Bank completed the acquisition of First Active plc, for a cash consideration of 887 million.
Net insurance claims General insurance claims, after reinsurance, increased by 59% In March 2004, RBS completed the purchase of the credit card to 3,480 million.
Excluding Churchill, the increase was 20%, business of People's Bank in the US.
consistent with volume growth and business mix.
In August 2004, Citizens completed the acquisition of Charter Provisions One Financial, Inc. for a cash consideration of US$10.1 billion.
The profit and loss charge for bad and doubtful debts and amounts written off fixed asset investments was 1,511 million The Group has adopted Financial Reporting Standard 17 compared with 1,494 million in 2003.
The charge for Retirement Benefits FRS 17 the standard that replaces provisions in 2004 represented 0.51% of gross loans and SSAP24 Pension Costs.
The effect on prior years of adopting advances to customers excluding reverse repurchase FRS 17 is shown on page 139. agreements, compared with 0.64% in 2003.
Total income Credit quality The Group achieved strong growth in income during 2004. Credit quality remains strong with no material change during Total income was up 18% or 3,473 million to 22,754 million.
2004 in the distribution by grade of the Group's total risk assets.
Excluding acquisitions and at constant exchange rates, total income was up by 11%, 2,004 million.
The ratio of risk elements in lending to gross loans and advances to customers improved to 1.58% 2003 2.01%.
Net interest income increased by 11% to 9,208 million and Risk elements in lending and potential problem loans represents 40% of total income 2003 43%.
Excluding represented 1.66% of gross loans and advances to customers acquisitions and at constant exchange rates, net interest 2003 2.24%.
Average loans and advances to customers and average customer deposits grew by 19% and 10% Provision coverage of risk elements in lending and potential respectively.
Non-interest income increased by 23% to 13,546 million and Integration represents 60% of total income 2003 57%.
Excluding Integration costs in 2004 were 269 million principally relating acquisitions and at constant exchange rates, non-interest to the integration of Churchill and the acquisitions by Citizens.
There was good growth in transmission income and other fees, up 17% while general insurance Earnings and dividends premium income increased by 58%, reflecting organic growth Basic earnings per ordinary share increased by 79%, from and the acquisition of Churchill in September 2003.
The final dividend on the Additional Value income from rental assets grew by 18%, reflecting strong Shares AVS paid in December 2003 reduced earnings per growth in operating lease assets.
ordinary share for that year by 49.9p.
Adjusting for this and for goodwill amortisation and integration costs, earnings per Net interest margin ordinary share increased by 10%, from 157.2p to 172.5p.
The Group's net interest margin at 2.92% was in line with expectations.
Excluding the acquisition of First Active, the A final dividend of 41.2p per ordinary share is recommended, Group's net interest margin was down 0.03% from 2.97% in making a total for the year of 58.0p per share, an increase of 2003, principally as a result of strong organic growth in 15%.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 3 June mortgage lending and the increased funding cost of rental 2005 to shareholders registered on 11 March 2005.
The total assets, the income from which is included in other income.
dividend is covered 2.9 times by earnings before goodwill amortisation and integration costs.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 69 Balance sheet Income from rental assets grew by 17% to 1,088 million, Total assets were 583 billion at 31 December 2004, 28% reflecting the growth in operating leases and investment higher than total assets of 454 billion at 31 December 2003. properties.
Lending to customers, excluding repurchase agreements and Net interest margin stock borrowing reverse repos, increased in 2004 by 28% The Groups net interest margin at 2.97% was, in line with the or 64.8 billion to 293.3 billion.
Excluding acquisitions and first half, down from 3.13% in 2002 due to a reduced benefit reverse repos, lending increased by 18%.
Customer deposits, from interest-free funds arising from the lower interest rate excluding repurchase agreements and stock lending repos, environment, and the outcome of the Competition Commission grew in 2004 by 16% or 33.0 billion to 242.9 billion.
69 Excluding acquisitions and repos, deposits increased by 7%.
Operating expenses Although the adoption of FRS 17 has reduced shareholders' Operating expenses, excluding goodwill amortisation and funds by 3,220 million 2003 2,001 million, this has no integration costs, rose by 10% to 8,524 million.
Excluding effect on the Group's regulatory capital at 31 December 2004. acquisitions, operating expenses were up 7% in support of higher business volumes and 10% income growth.
Capital ratios at 31 December 2004 were 7.0% tier 1 and 11.7% total, against 7.4% tier 1 and 11.8% total at 31 Cost:income ratio December 2003.
The strong growth in income together with tight cost management resulted in a further improvement in the Groups ratio of Profitability operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and The adjusted after-tax return on ordinary equity was stable at integration costs and after netting operating lease depreciation 20.1%.
This is based on profit attributable to ordinary against rental income to total income, to 42.6% from 44.2%.
shareholders before goodwill amortisation, integration costs Excluding the effect of acquisitions, the cost:income ratio and in 2003 the AVS dividend, and average ordinary equity.
Net insurance claims 2003 compared with 2002 General insurance claims, after reinsurance, increased by 63% Profit to 2,195 million.
Excluding Churchill, the increase was 29%, Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs consistent with volume growth in the component parts of the increased by 8% or 528 million, from 6,540 million to 7,068 insurance division.
Provisions Profit before tax was up 25%, from 4,852 million to 6,076 million.
The profit and loss charge for bad debts and amounts written off fixed asset investments was 1,494 million compared with Total income 1,345 million in 2002.
The profit and loss charge is in line with The Group achieved strong growth in income during 2003. the growth in loans and advances.
Total income was up 13% or 2,265 million to 19,281 million.
Non-interest income accounted for 57% of total income.
Credit quality Excluding acquisitions, total income rose by 10%.
There was no material change during the year in the distribution by grade of the Groups total risk assets.
Net interest income increased by 6% to 8,301 million and represented 43% of total income 2002 46%.
Average loans The ratio of risk elements in lending to gross loans and and advances to customers and average customer deposits advances to customers at 2.01% at 31 December 2003 grew by 12% and 8% respectively.
The benefit of this growth showed an improving trend 31 December 2002 2.14%.
more than offset the impact on net interest income of the Competition Commission inquiry into SME banking in the UK and section Risk elements in lending and potential problem loans represented the lower interest rate environment in the UK and the US which 2.24% of gross loans and advances to customers compared reduced income earned from deposits and investments.
Non-interest income increased by 20% to 10,980 million and Integration represented 57% of total income 2002 54%.
Fees Integration costs in the year were 229 million, of which, 143 receivable were up 8% with good growth in lending, million related to the final elements of the NatWest integration transmission and card related fees reflecting higher volumes.
and 86 million related to other acquisitions, including Citizens General insurance premium income grew strongly, reflecting acquisitions and Churchill.
volume growth in both motor and home insurance products, and the acquisition of Churchill.
In addition, volumes in All integration initiatives in relation to NatWest have been financial markets were up strongly in both the UK and the US implemented.
The programme benefits, comprising 890 reflecting growth in customer-driven activity in interest rate million annual revenue benefits and 1,440 million annual cost protection, mortgage securitisation and foreign exchange.
savings, were fully implemented less than three years after the Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 70 Operating and financial review continued acquisition of NatWest.
Total costs for the integration programme In April 2003, Citizens announced the acquisition of Port were 2.3 billion.
Since 6 March 2000 the integration initiatives Financial Corp. the holding company of the Massachusetts have contributed a cumulative 5.6 billion to the Group.
savings bank, CambridgePort Bank for a cash consideration of US$285 million.
This transaction was completed on 31 July 2003.
Earnings and dividends Basic earnings per ordinary share increased by 9%, from In May 2003, RBS announced the acquisition of Nordisk 70.6p to 76.9p.
Earnings per ordinary share, adjusted for Renting AB, a Swedish leasing company, for a cash goodwill amortisation, integration costs and the dividend on consideration of 104 million.
This transaction was completed Additional Value Shares AVS, increased by 7%, from 146.3p on 2 June 2003. to 157.2p.
70 In May 2003, RBS announced the acquisition of the credit card The final dividend of 55p per share amounting to 1.5 billion and personal loans portfolios of Frankfurt-based Santander was paid on 1 December 2003 to the holders of the AVS Direkt Bank for a cash consideration of 486 million.
This issued in connection with the acquisition of NatWest.
A total of transaction was completed on 31 July 2003.
1 per AVS amounting to 2.7 billion in aggregate was paid over three years to shareholders in accordance with the In June 2003, RBS announced the acquisition of Churchill original schedule.
Insurance Group PLC for a cash consideration of 1.1 billion.
This transaction was completed on 1 September 2003.
The total ordinary dividend for the year was 50.3p per ordinary share an increase of 15%.
The total dividend was covered 3.1 In July 2003, Citizens announced the acquisition of Community times by earnings before goodwill amortisation, integration Bancorp, Inc. the holding company for Community National costs and the AVS dividend.
Bank, for a cash consideration of US$116 million.
This transaction was completed on 31 October 2003.
Balance sheet Total assets were 454 billion at 31 December 2003, 11% In September 2003, Citizens announced the acquisition of Thistle higher than total assets of 411 billion at 31 December 2002.
Group Holdings, Co. the holding company for Roxborough Manayunk Bank, for a cash consideration of US$136 million.
Lending to customers, excluding repurchase agreements and This transaction was completed on 5 January 2004. stock borrowing reverse repos, increased by 13% or 27 billion to 228 billion.
Customer deposits, excluding In October 2003, Coutts Bank Switzerland Limited announced repurchase agreements and stock lending repos, grew by the acquisition of a Swiss private bank, Bank von Ernst & Cie 8% or 16 billion to 210 billion.
AG, for a cash consideration of Swiss Francs 500 million.
This transaction was completed on 28 November 2003.
Capital ratios at 31 December 2003 were 7.4% tier 1 and 11.8% total, against 7.3% tier 1 and 11.7% total at 31 In October 2003, RBS announced that it had agreed terms for December 2002. a recommended acquisition of First Active plc, for a cash consideration of 887 million.
This transaction was completed Profitability on 5 January 2004.
The adjusted after-tax return on ordinary equity was 20.1% compared with 18.3% for 2002.
This is based on profit On 3 February 2004, RBS announced that it had agreed terms attributable to ordinary shareholders before goodwill with Peoples Bank of Connecticut to purchase their credit card amortisation, integration costs and the AVS dividend, and portfolio.
This transaction was completed on 5 March 2004. average equity shareholders funds.
Disposals Acquisitions In May 2003, RBS announced the sale of the Miami-based In January 2003, Citizens completed the acquisition of Latin American private banking operations of Coutts Group to Pennsylvania-based commercial bank, Commonwealth Santander Central Hispano.
The cash consideration was Bancorp, Inc. for a cash consideration of US$450 million.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 71 Analysis of results Net interest income 2004 2003 2002 m m m Interest receivable 16,696 13,998 13,561 Interest payable 7,488 5,697 5,712 Net interest income 9,208 8,301 7,849 % % % Gross yield on interest-earning assets of the banking business 5.30 5.00 5.41 Cost of interest-bearing liabilities of the banking business 2.70 2.32 2.70 Interest spread of the banking business 2.60 2.68 2.71 71 Benefit from interest-free funds 0.32 0.29 0.42 Net interest margin of the banking business 2.92 2.97 3.13 Yields, spreads and margins of the banking business % %% Gross yield Group 5.30 5.00 5.41 UK 5.70 5.20 5.56 Overseas 4.38 4.44 4.97 Interest spread Group 2.60 2.68 2.71 UK 2.68 2.68 2.72 Overseas 2.48 2.71 2.69 Net interest margin Group 2.92 2.97 3.13 UK 2.96 2.95 3.14 Overseas 2.83 3.02 3.09 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc base rate 4.38 3.69 4.00 London inter-bank three month offered rates: Sterling 4.64 3.74 4.06 Eurodollar 1.62 1.22 1.80 Euro 2.11 2.33 3.32 Notes: 1 Gross yield is the interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets of the banking business.
2 Interest spread is the difference between the gross yield and the interest rate paid on average interest-bearing liabilities of the banking business.
3 Net interest margin is net interest income of the banking business as a percentage of average interest-earning assets of the banking business.
2004 compared with 2003 Within this, average loans and advances to customers were up Group The net interest margin decreased from 2.97% to 2.92%.
12%, 23.3 billion, to 213.3 billion due to growth in both The interest spread declined reflecting principally a change in corporate and personal lending.
mix towards relatively lower margin mortgage business including the acquisition of First Active.
This was partially offset by an Interest spread for the Group as a whole decreased from 2.71% increase in the benefit from interest-free funds due to increased to 2.68%.
Interest-free balances fell partly due to the outcome volumes and movements in interest rates.
of the Competition Commission inquiry into SME banking.
This, together with the lower interest rate environment UK The UK net interest margin increased slightly from 2.95% to contributed to the reduction in the benefit of interest-free funds 2.96%.
An increase in the benefit from interest-free funds, due to from 0.42% to 0.29% giving a decline in net interest margin movements in interest rates, and improvements in corporate from 3.13% to 2.97%.
section lending margins were largely offset by growth in the mortgage business.
UK Interest spread decreased from 2.72% to 2.68% with 01 product margins remaining stable despite growth in the Overseas The Overseas net interest margin decreased from relatively lower margin mortgage business.
This reduction reflected the continued benefit of interest-free funds due to the rate and volume tightening of asset spreads in the US, together with the growth in impact described above resulted in the decrease in net mortgage business following the acquisition of First Active.
Higher volumes together with movements in interest rates led to an increase in the benefit of interest-free funds.
Overseas Interest spread increased from 2.69% to 2.71%.
Asset spreads tightened in the US due to lower interest rates: 2003 compared with 2002 however, this was more than offset by overall mix and volume Net interest income increased by 6%, 452 million, to 8,301 improvements elsewhere.
Lower interest rates led to a million.
Average interest-earning assets of the Groups banking reduction in the benefit from interest-free funds, resulting business increased by 12%, 29.1 billion, to 279.7 billion.
in the decline in net interest margin from 3.09% to 3.02%.
2 Loans and advances to customers include non-accrual loans.
Interest income includes income on non-accruing loans only to the extent cash payments have been received.
3 Interest receivable and interest payable on trading assets and liabilities are included in dealing profits.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 73 2002 Average balance Interest Rate m m % Assets Treasury and other eligible bills UK 910 24 2.64 Treasury and other eligible bills Overseas 351 6 1.71 Loans and advances to banks UK 13,439 532 3.96 Loans and advances to banks Overseas 9,811 304 3.10 Loans and advances to customers UK 154,202 9,141 5.93 73 Loans and advances to customers Overseas 35,759 1,963 5.49 Debt securities UK 17,950 675 3.76 Debt securities Overseas 18,188 916 5.04 Total interest-earning assets banking business 250,610 13,561 5.41 trading business 3 78,380 Total interest-earning assets 328,990 Non-interest-earning assets 64,867 Total assets 393,857 Percentage of assets applicable to overseas operations 32.0% Liabilities and shareholders equity Deposits by banks UK 21,090 544 2.58 Deposits by banks Overseas 9,058 215 2.37 Customer accounts: demand deposits UK 58,618 1,062 1.81 Customer accounts: demand deposits Overseas 8,275 99 1.20 Customer accounts: savings deposits UK 16,002 463 2.89 Customer accounts: savings deposits Overseas 11,742 229 1.95 Customer accounts: other time deposits UK 45,902 1,542 3.36 Customer accounts: other time deposits Overseas 16,264 462 2.84 Debt securities in issue UK 24,154 965 4.00 Debt securities in issue Overseas 8,693 209 2.40 Loan capital UK 13,154 640 4.87 Loan capital Overseas 166 17 10.24 Internal funding of trading business UK 20,129 709 3.52 Internal funding of trading business Overseas 1,301 26 2.00 Total interest-bearing liabilities banking business 211,688 5,712 2.70 trading business 3 75,059 Total interest-bearing liabilities 286,747 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Demand deposits UK 21,848 Demand deposits Overseas 6,401 Other liabilities 52,047 Shareholders funds equity 23,075 section Shareholders funds non-equity 3,739 01 Total liabilities and shareholders equity 393,857 Percentage of liabilities applicable to overseas operations 30.4% restated see page 139 Notes: 1 The analysis into UK and Overseas has been compiled on the basis of location of office.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 74 Operating and financial review continued Analysis of change in net interest income volume and rate analysis Volume and rate variances have been calculated based on movements in average balances over the period and changes in interest rates on average interest-earning assets and average interest-bearing liabilities.
Changes due to a combination of volume and rate are allocated pro rata to volume and rate movements.
Non-interest income represented 57% of total 57%.
Excluding acquisitions and at constant exchange rates, income.
Excluding general insurance premium income, nonnon-interest income was up 13%.
interest income rose by 9% or 643 million to 7,857 million reflecting strong performances in CBFM, up 18% or 670 Within non-interest income, fees and commissions receivable million and Retail Direct, up 17%, or 145 million.
increased by 17% or 941 million, to 6,634 million.
This reflected strong growth in lending, transmission and card Within non-interest income, fees and commissions receivable related fees together with increased insurance brokerage increased by 8% or 444 million, to 5,693 million.
reflected an increase in lending and transmission fees, and good growth in insurance brokerage, cards related fees and Fees and commissions payable increased by 617 million to ATM income.
1,954 million reflecting higher brokerage costs in CBFM due to greater volumes of trading and structuring business and Fees and commissions payable increased by 372 million to fees paid in Retail Direct in support of higher volumes.
1,337 million reflecting higher brokerage costs in CBFM, fees Commissions payable to brokers and intermediaries in the paid in Retail Direct in support of higher volumes and general insurance business were up reflecting the acquisition commissions payable to brokers and intermediaries following of Churchill in September 2003. the acquisition of Churchill.
Dealing profits at 1,988 million were up 195 million, 11% on Dealing profits at 1,793 million were up 331 million, 23% on 2003.
Growth was achieved across all customer segments and 2002.
This reflected strong growth in volumes in all product product classes with further diversification of dealing revenues areas.
The performance in the first half of the year benefited in the US to compensate for lower residential refinancing from the unusually high levels of demand for mortgage backed volume than the previous year.
Other operating income increased by 12% to 1,855 million.
Other operating income increased by 17% to 1,650 million.
This was principally due to higher gross income from rental This was due to growth in income from rental assets assets reflecting strong growth in operating lease assets.
comprising operating lease assets and investment properties and higher investment securities gains.
section General insurance premium income, after reinsurance, rose by 58%, or 1,821 million to 4,944 million reflecting organic General insurance premium income, after reinsurance, rose by 01 growth and the acquisition of Churchill.
Excluding Churchill, the 60%, or 1,170 million to 3,123 million.
Excluding the acquisition growth was 17% reflecting volume growth in motor and home of Churchill Insurance the growth was 25% or 490 million insurance products.
reflecting volume growth in motor and home insurance products.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 76 Operating and financial review continued Operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and integration costs 2004 2003 2002 m m m Administrative expenses: Staff costs 5,231 4,528 4,054 Premises and equipment 1,150 1,042 879 Other administrative 2,176 2,035 1,955 Total administrative expenses 8,557 7,605 6,888 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 1,105 919 893 9,662 8,524 7,781 restated see page 139 76 2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 Operating expenses, excluding goodwill amortisation and Operating expenses excluding goodwill amortisation and integration costs, rose by 13% to 9,662 million to support the integration costs rose by 10% or 743 million to 8,524 million.
strong growth in business volumes.
Excluding acquisitions and This increased expenditure was in support of strong organic at constant exchange rates, operating expenses were up by growth and customer service improvements.
acquisitions, operating expenses were up 7%, 544 million in support of higher business volumes and 13% income growth.
Staff costs were up 703 million, 16% to 5,231 million reflecting acquisitions, business growth and higher pension Staff costs were up 474 million, 12% to 4,528 million costs following the implementation of FRS 17.
The number of reflecting acquisitions and business growth.
The number of staff increased by 15,700, 13% to 136,600.
Of the increase staff increased by 9,100, 8% to 120,900.
Acquisitions in the 10,500 was due to acquisitions.
year added 9,700 staff of which 8,500 related to Churchill.
Premises and equipment expenses increased by 108 million, Premises and equipment expenses increased by 163 million, 10% to 1,150 million reflecting investment to upgrade the 19% to 1,042 million reflecting the continuing upgrade of the property portfolio in major UK centres to support the core property portfolio in major UK centres to support the core business.
The increase in other administrative expenses reflected business The increase in other administrative expenses reflected higher volume growth and continued expenditure in support of Group business volumes and included expenditure in support of wide projects.
The Group's ratio of operating expenses excluding goodwill Continued income growth coupled with a rigorous approach to amortisation and integration costs and after netting operating cost management further improved the Groups cost:income lease depreciation against rental income to total income ratio, to 42.6% from 44.2%.
Excluding the effect of acquisitions improved further to 40.8% from 42.6%.
the cost:income ratio improved to 43.9%.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 77 Integration costs 2004 2003 2002 m m m Staff costs 113 125 530 Premises and equipment 34 31 127 Other administrative expenses 120 73 298 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 2 2 269 229 957 77 Integration costs in 2004 comprise 87 million relating to the Integration costs in 2002 comprise 810 million relating integration of Churchill, 91 million relating to the integration of to the integration of NatWest and 147 million relating to Charter One and 91 million in respect of other acquisitions.
the integration of Citizens' acquisitions.
Integration costs in 2003 comprise 143 million relating Accruals in relation to integration costs are set out below.
to the integration of NatWest, 63 million relating to the integration of Citizens' acquisitions and 23 million in respect of other acquisitions.
At 31 December Currency translation Charge to profit Utilised during At 31 December 2003 adjustments and loss account the year 2004 m m m m m Staff costs redundancy 19 19 27 11 Staff costs other 27 1 94 91 29 Premises and equipment 2 1 34 22 13 Other 33 2 122 109 44 81 4 269 249 97 section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 78 Operating and financial review continued Provisions 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net new provisions 1,658 1,566 1,408 less: recoveries of amounts previously written off 147 72 63 Charge to profit and loss account 1,511 1,494 1,345 Comprising: Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 1,428 1,461 1,286 Amounts written off fixed asset investments 83 33 59 78 Charge to profit and loss account 1,511 1,494 1,345 2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 Gross new provisions were up 6%, 92 million to 1,658 million.
Gross new provisions were up 11%, 158 million to 1,566 million.
Recoveries of amounts previously written more than doubled to Recoveries of amounts previously written off were up 9 million, 147 million.
Consequently the net charge to the profit and loss 14%, to 72 million.
Consequently the net charge to the profit account was up 17 million, 1% to 1,511 million.
and loss account was up 149 million, 11% to 1,494 million.
Bad debt provisions amounted to 1,428 million compared with Bad debt provisions amounted to 1,461 million compared with 1,461 million in 2003, a decrease of 2%.
Amounts written off 1,286 million in 2002, an increase of 14%.
The increased fixed asset investments were up from 33 million in 2003 to 83 charge was in line with the growth in lending during 2003. million.
Amounts written off fixed asset investments, largely in the second half of the year, were down 26 million to 33 million Total balance sheet provisions for bad and doubtful debts compared with 59 million in 2002. amounted to 4,228 million compared with 3,929 million at 31 December 2003.
Total provision coverage the ratio of total Total balance sheet provisions for bad and doubtful debts balance sheet provisions to total risk elements in lending amounted to 3,929 million compared with 3,927 million at remained stable at 76%.
Total provision coverage the ratio of total balance sheet provisions to total risk elements in lending was The ratio of total balance sheet provisions to total risk elements 76% compared with 80% at 31 December 2002. in lending and potential problem loans increased to 73% compared with 68% at 31 December 2003.
The ratio of total balance sheet provisions to total risk elements in lending and potential problem loans increased to 68% compared with 65% at 31 December 2002.
Taxation 2004 2003 2002 m m m Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2,155 1,888 1,582 % %% UK corporation tax rate 30.0 30.0 30.0 Effective tax rate 31.2 31.1 32.6 The actual tax charge differs from the expected tax charge computed by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax as follows: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Expected tax charge 2,075 1,823 1,456 Goodwill amortisation 241 200 183 Contributions to employee share schemes 32 35 40 Non-deductible items 227 248 179 Non-taxable items 251 207 188 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 415 626 340 Other 45 16 6 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 168 77 15 Current tax charge for year 1,722 1,342 1,241 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of timing differences 482 581 397 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 49 35 56 Actual tax charge 2,155 1,888 1,582 restated see page 139 Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 79 Divisional performance The contribution of each division before goodwill amortisation and integration costs and, where appropriate, Manufacturing costs is detailed below.
2004 2003 2002 m m m Corporate Banking and Financial Markets 4,265 3,620 3,261 Retail Banking 3,279 3,170 3,074 Retail Direct 1,040 881 708 Manufacturing 2,439 2,114 1,952 Wealth Management 468 402 407 RBS Insurance 862 609 456 79 Ulster Bank 468 354 318 Citizens 1,037 857 766 Central items 879 711 498 Profit before goodwill amortisation and integration costs 8,101 7,068 6,540 prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer in 2004 of certain activities from Wealth Management to Retail Banking and from other divisions, principally RBS Insurance and Ulster Bank, to Manufacturing.
restated following the implementation of FRS 17 The performance of each of the divisions is reviewed on pages 80 to 91. section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 80 Operating and financial review continued Corporate Banking and Financial Markets 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net interest income excluding funding cost of rental assets 2,959 2,653 2,631 Funding cost of rental assets 414 329 282 Net interest income 2,545 2,324 2,349 Fees and commissions receivable 1,723 1,537 1,394 Fees and commissions payable 277 220 157 Dealing profits before associated direct costs 1,855 1,661 1,338 Income on rental assets 1,282 1,088 931 Other operating income 381 307 197 80 Non-interest income 4,964 4,373 3,703 Total income 7,509 6,697 6,052 Direct expenses staff costs 1,642 1,410 1,230 other 412 394 375 operating lease depreciation 610 518 461 2,664 2,322 2,066 Contribution before provisions 4,845 4,375 3,986 Provisions 580 755 725 Contribution 4,265 3,620 3,261 bn bn bn Total assets 265.3 219.0 203.4 Loans and advances to customers gross banking book 114.9 99.3 92.1 trading book 10.0 5.0 3.6 Rental assets 11.2 10.1 7.0 Customer deposits 74.9 68.6 62.2 Weighted risk assets banking 160.9 140.0 125.2 Weighted risk assets trading 16.9 12.6 11.3 excluding repos and reverse repos 2004 compared with 2003 credit asset classes, rose by 12% to 1,855 million.
Growth Contribution increased by 18%, 645 million to 4,265 million was achieved across all our customer segments and product reflecting growth in all business areas.
classes with further diversification of dealing revenues in the US to compensate for lower residential mortgage refinancing Total income was up 12% or 812 million to 7,509 million.
The Group's trading value-at-risk VaR Strong growth in all locations was partially masked by the remains modest and the average VaR was 10.8 million 2003 effect of stronger sterling on the translation of income from 9.4 million.
Europe and North American businesses.
At constant exchange rates, income grew by 14% and contribution was up 20%.
The asset rental business, comprising operating lease assets and investment properties continued to grow strongly.
Rental Net interest income, excluding the cost of funding rental assets, assets increased to 11.2 billion and income after deducting increased 12% or 306 million to 2,959 million.
Average loans funding costs and operating lease depreciation increased by and advances to customers of the banking business increased 7%, 17 million to 258 million.
The second half of 2004 saw a modest recovery in large corporate lending.
Average Other operating income also grew strongly, up 74 million or customer deposits within the banking business increased by 24% to 381 million.
An improvement in margins was achieved through strong growth in our UK mid-corporate Direct expenses increased by 15% or 342 million to 2,664 relationships.
Excluding operating lease depreciation, operating expenses were up 14%, 250 million.
This was mainly due to Fees receivable rose by 186 million, 12% to 1,723 million the mix effect of faster growth in businesses with inherently with growth driven by lending, structured finance and capital higher cost:income ratios, such as Capital Markets and our markets activities.
Fees payable, including brokerage, were up overseas businesses, together with the investment in new 57 million to 277 million due to the greater volumes of revenue initiatives in the US.
The charge for provisions for bad debts and amounts written Dealing profits, which is income before associated direct off fixed asset investments amounted to 580 million, a decrease costs arising from our role in providing customers with debt of 23%, 175 million.
The reduction reflects an improvement in and risk management products in interest rate, currency and corporate credit quality and the economic environment in 2004.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 81 2003 compared with 2002 Dealing profits which is income before associated direct costs Contribution increased by 11% or 359 million to 3,620 arising from our role in providing customers with debt and risk million.
As well as in the UK, the division also achieved good management products in interest rate, currency and credit growth in Europe and North America.
asset classes, rose by 24% to 1,661 million providing incremental profit contribution of some 170 million.
There was Total income was up 11% or 645 million to 6,697 million with steady growth in underlying customer volumes in all product strong growth across all business areas.
While first half performance was particularly strong given the unusually high levels of demand for mortgage Average loans and advances to customers of the banking backed securities in the United States, dealing revenues in the business increased by 9% or 7.5 billion to 94.3 billion.
second half were up 10% on the prior year period, in line with 81 Lending margin was maintained.
Average customer deposits the growth in income for the division as a whole.
within the banking businesses increased by 7% or 4.1 billion to 61.0 billion: however, the lower interest rate environment Other operating income was up 110 million, 56% to 307 adversely affected deposit margins as it reduced the benefit of million partially due to the full year effect of the inclusion of interest free funds.
Net interest income was further impacted Dixon Motors gross profit.
by the effect of implementing from 1 January 2003 the pricing remedies agreed following the Competition Commission inquiry Direct expenses increased by 12% or 256 million to 2,322 into SME banking and by lower money market income, due to million.
Excluding the effect of the acquisition of Nordisk less favourable market conditions.
Renting and Dixon Motors and operating lease depreciation, operating expenses were up 10%, 161 million.
This was due The asset rental business comprising operating leases and to performance related costs associated with the strong growth investment properties, grew strongly.
Rental assets increased in trading revenues, expansion in all business areas and to 10.1 billion and net income after deducting funding costs continued investment in capital market activities and in the and operating lease depreciation increased by 28%, 53 growing overseas franchise.
The charge for provisions for bad debts and amounts written Fees receivable rose by 143 million, 10% to 1,537 million off fixed asset investments amounted to 755 million, an due to growth in fees related to lending and from the increase of 30 million.
The charge in the second half of the expansion and success of capital markets activities.
Fees year was 351 million, 13% lower than the first half.
The payable including brokerage were up 63 million to 220 increase in provisions of 4% over last year was less than the million due to higher volumes in Financial Markets.
growth in lending of 9%, reflecting an improvement in credit quality and the economic environment during 2003. section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 82 Operating and financial review continued Retail Banking 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net interest income 3,112 2,959 2,849 Non-interest income 1,630 1,514 1,430 Total income 4,742 4,473 4,279 Direct expenses staff costs 834 793 729 other 240 237 263 1,074 1,030 992 82 Contribution before provisions 3,668 3,443 3,287 Provisions 389 273 213 Contribution 3,279 3,170 3,074 bn bn bn Total banking assets 74.2 63.9 57.4 Loans and advances to customers gross mortgages 44.1 36.6 32.1 small business 15.2 13.8 12.5 consumer lending 12.9 11.4 11.0 Customer deposits 70.6 66.5 61.9 Weighted risk assets 49.7 42.9 38.8 prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer in 2004 of certain activities from Wealth Management.
2004 compared with 2003 Direct expenses increased by 4% or 44 million to 1,074 The division continued to achieve strong volume growth across million.
Staff expenses increased 5% or 41 million to 834 all key product areas in particular mortgages, loans and million, principally due to the deployment of an additional one savings supported by increased customer numbers.
As a thousand customer facing staff in the NatWest network.
The result, income increased by 6% or 269 million to 4,742 million, increase in other expenses was 1% or 3 million, reflecting and contribution by 3% or 109 million to 3,279 million.
Net interest income rose by 5% or 153 million to 3,112 The charge for provisions for bad and doubtful debts increased million, reflecting strong growth in lending and deposits which by 116 million to 389 million.
The increased charge reflects more than offset the impact of business mix particularly the anticipated increase in delinquency rates in the NatWest strong growth in low risk mortgage lending and the impact of portfolio following growth in unsecured lending in recent years.
lower margin in some areas, especially unsecured lending.
NatWest credit experience is now broadly consistent with the Average loans to customers, excluding mortgages, grew by RBS portfolio which has been stable for a number of years.
Average mortgage lending reported in the first half, there has also been a higher incidence grew by 21% or 7.0 billion to 40.7 billion.
Both mortgage and of fraud which has led to some deterioration in recovery rates.
non-mortgage lending have evidenced a slowdown in growth in the second half of the year.
Average customer deposits The overall quality of the loan portfolio, the majority of which is increased by 8% or 4.9 billion to 66.0 billion.
mortgage lending, as measured by probability of default, remained in line with expectations.
Non-interest income rose by 8% or 116 million to 1,630 million.
This reflected higher fee income associated with strong asset growth in both personal and business sectors together with increased volumes of money transmission activity.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 83 2003 compared with 2002 The division achieved strong volume growth across all personal Non-interest income rose by 6% or 84 million to 1,514 million.
product areas - current accounts, mortgages and loans and This reflected further growth in the customer base and a 15% savings.
Despite lower interest rates and the adverse effect of growth in general insurance income to 301 million.
Embedded the pricing remedies agreed following the Competition value profits of the life assurance business increased by 14%, Commission inquiry into SME banking which were implemented or 7 million to 57 million.
from 1 January 2003, income increased by 5% or 194 million to 4,473 million, and contribution by 3% or 96 million to Direct expenses increased by 4% or 38 million to 1,030 3,170 million.
Staff expenses increased 9% or 64 million to 793 million reflecting further investment in customer facing staff.
83 Net interest income rose by 4% or 110 million to 2,959 million, reflecting the continued strong growth in customer advances Other expenses decreased 10% or 26 million to 237 million, and deposits which was partially offset by the implementation as a result of our rigorous approach to management of nonof the Competition Commission pricing remedies and the staff costs.
impact of a lower interest rate environment.
Excluding the effect of the Competition Commission the increase was 8%.
The charge for provisions for bad debts increased by 60 million Average loans to customers, excluding mortgages, grew by to 273 million.
The overall quality of the loan portfolio 9% or 1.9 billion to 23.7 billion.
Average mortgage lending remained stable and the increased charge reflected growth grew by 12% or 3.6 billion to 33.7 billion.
Average customer in lending over recent years particularly in NatWest since its deposits increased by 6% or 3.7 billion to 60.9 billion.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 84 Operating and financial review continued Retail Direct 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net interest income 938 849 749 Non-interest income 1,191 986 841 Total income 2,129 1,835 1,590 Direct expenses staff costs 259 211 190 other 453 446 411 712 657 601 84 Contribution before provisions 1,417 1,178 989 Provisions 377 297 281 Contribution 1,040 881 708 bn bn bn Total assets 26.9 21.9 19.4 Loans and advances to customers gross mortgages 9.2 8.2 7.0 other 16.0 13.8 12.4 Customer deposits 4.4 4.4 4.4 Weighted risk assets 21.1 16.8 14.4 prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer in 2004 of certain activities to Manufacturing.
2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 Contribution increased by 18% or 159 million to 1,040 million.
Contribution increased by 24% or 173 million to 881 million.
Total income was up 15% or 245 million to 1,835 million, Total income was up 16% or 294 million to 2,129 million, reflecting continued strong growth in supermarket banking reflecting continued strong growth across all products, TPF, mortgages and cards.
Net interest income was up 13% particularly credit cards.
Excluding acquisitions income rose or 100 million to 849 million.
Average lending rose by 15% by 9%, 155 million, and contribution was up by 14%, 125 to 20.3 billion of which average mortgage lending was 20% million.
Net interest income was up 10% or 89 million to 938 higher at 7.6 billion mainly in The One account.
Average lending rose by 19% to 24.2 billion, of which customer deposits were up 5% to 4.4 billion.
During 2003, the average mortgage lending was 16% higher at 8.8 billion, total number of customer accounts increased by 1.7 million.
mainly in The One account.
Average customer deposits were stable.
The new MINT branded credit card was launched in Non-interest income was up 17% or 145 million to 986 million.
December 2003 and while the 0% introductory interest rate for There was good growth in insurance and ATM income resulting nine months on MINT cards depressed net interest margin, from increased volumes, particularly in TPF and in the Cards over 711,000 MINT credit cards have been issued and Business.
During 2004, the total number of Direct expenses increased by 9% or 7% excluding acquisitions, customer accounts increased by 2.3 million.
and other expenses increased by 35 million, 9% 7% excluding acquisitions, with increased processing and operational costs Non-interest income was up 21% or 205 million to 1,191 in support of the higher business levels.
million, reflecting increased volumes and acquisitions.
The charge for provisions for bad debts increased by 16 Direct expenses increased by 8% or 55 million to 712 million.
million or 6% to 297 million, reflecting growth in lending Staff costs were up 23%, due to the acquisitions and increased volumes offset by higher recoveries.
The indicators of credit headcount to support higher business volumes.
acquisitions, staff costs were up 8%.
The increase in other expenses was limited to 2%, as a result of tight cost management and efficiencies within the core businesses.
The charge for provisions for bad debts increased by 80 million or 27% to 377 million, reflecting the growth in lending volumes and the acquisition of the credit card business from People's Bank.
Excluding acquisitions, provisions for bad debts were up 14%, 41 million.
Credit metrics across the portfolio remain broadly stable, however consistent with the market there was some increase in the levels of arrears towards the end of the year in credit cards.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 85 Manufacturing 2004 2003 2002 m m m Staff costs 794 671 571 Other costs 1,645 1,443 1,381 Total manufacturing costs 2,439 2,114 1,952 Analysis: Group Technology 807 686 665 Group Purchasing and Property Operations 854 718 649 Customer Support and other operations 778 710 638 85 Total manufacturing costs 2,439 2,114 1,952 prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer in 2004 of certain activities, principally from RBS Insurance and Ulster Bank.
2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 Manufacturings costs increased by 325 million, 15% to Manufacturings costs increased by 8% or 162 million, to 2,439 million.
Manufacturing is now supporting RBS Insurance and Ulster Group Technology costs increased by 21 million to 686 Bank and of the 325 million increase, 82 million reflects million.
This reflected business as usual cost growth and a technology and property operations of Churchill 2004 96 specific improvement programme, the majority of the cost of million: 2003 33 million and First Active 2004 19 million: which will be borne by Group Technology.
This is providing 2003 nil which were acquired in September 2003 and benefits across the Group and further investment opportunities January 2004 respectively.
were identified which will lead to further efficiency benefits across the Group.
The balance of the increase was required to support higher business volumes, to upgrade the Group's regional property The cost base of Group Purchasing and Property Operations portfolio and to invest in the Group Efficiency Programme rose by 11% or 69 million to 718 million, largely as a result of initiatives that are improving the Group's overall efficiency.
the continuing upgrade of the property portfolio in major UK centres to support the Groups core business.
A number of initiatives aimed at improving efficiency and customer service were introduced in the year, including a sales Customer Support and other operations costs were 710 million, prompt system on screens in NatWest branches and in RBS 11% or 72 million higher than the previous year.
This reflected and NatWest telephony: enhanced fraud prevention: further expansion of business operations with increased conversion of paper based branch reports to screen: image expenditure in customer support areas of Lending, Telephony, and workflow capability in service centres: the introduction of Payments and Security.
In telephony, the Royal Bank of Scotland a new image enabled mortgage platform which has improved customer service proposition was introduced to NatWest the efficiency and quality of our service and the introduction of customers who can now choose between speaking to their local an on-line customer query management system.
branch, to a customer service officer or using the automated telephone service.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 86 Operating and financial review continued Wealth Management 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net interest income 497 457 451 Non-interest income 451 352 370 Total income 948 809 821 Expenses staff costs 299 259 279 other 164 139 146 463 398 425 86 Contribution before provisions 485 411 396 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts charge release 17 9 11 Contribution 468 402 407 bn bn bn Loans to customers 9.2 7.9 7.3 Investment management assets excluding deposits 22.3 22.3 16.1 Customer deposits 31.7 29.1 28.9 Weighted risk assets 8.3 9.1 8.4 prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer of certain activities to Retail Banking and Manufacturing.
2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 Contribution at 468 million was 66 million or 16% higher than Contribution was 402 million, 5 million or 1% lower than 2002.
Excluding the acquisition and adjusting for the disposal, Excluding the acquisition and disposals, income was up 1%, contribution was up 14%, 54 million.
with contribution before provisions up 4%.
The charge for provisions for bad and doubtful debts was 9 million compared Total income increased by 17% or 139 million to 948 million, with a net release of 11 million in 2002. including a full year contribution from Bank von Ernst.
Excluding the acquisition and disposal, income was 12%, 94 million higher.
Total income was down by 1% or 12 million to 809 million.
Net interest income increased by 9% or 40 million to 497 Net interest income increased by 1% or 6 million to 457 million.
The increase reflects growth in both lending and million.
The benefit from growth in lending volumes was partly deposit volumes, combined with the benefit of higher average negated by the effect of lower interest rates which also caused interest rates.
Non-interest income increased by 28% or 99 million to 451 Non-interest income declined by 5% or 18 million to 352 million.
million, reflecting higher fee income as a result of the improved Excluding the acquisition and disposals the decrease was 1%.
equity markets and the acquisition of Bank von Ernst.
This reflected the impact of lower equity markets adversely affecting fees and commissions.
Investment management assets were stable at 22.3 billion.
Excluding the acquisition and disposal and at constant Investment management assets increased by 6.2 billion or exchange rates, investment assets increased 7%.
39% to 22.3 billion principally due to the acquisition of Bank von Ernst in the year.
Expenses were up by 16% or 65 million to 463 million to support the growth in income and reflecting the acquisition of Expenses were down by 6% or 27 million to 398 million Bank von Ernst.
Excluding the acquisition and disposal, reflecting tight cost control in difficult market conditions and expenses were up 9%, 33 million.
the 7% reduction in staff numbers since 31 December 2002.
The charge for provisions for bad and doubtful debts was Provisions for bad and doubtful debts were 9 million 17 million compared with 9 million in 2003, reflecting a compared with a net release of 11 million in 2002. small number of specific cases.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 87 RBS Insurance 2004 2003 2002 m m m Earned premiums 5,357 3,627 2,442 Reinsurers share 413 504 489 Insurance premium income 4,944 3,123 1,953 Net fees and commissions 488 161 6 Other income 478 283 180 Total income 4,934 3,245 2,139 Expenses staff costs 293 222 166 87 other 299 219 167 592 441 333 Gross claims 3,724 2,644 1,693 Reinsurers share 244 449 343 Net claims 3,480 2,195 1,350 Contribution 862 609 456 In-force policies 000s Motor: UK 8,338 8,086 4,668 Motor: Continental Europe 1,639 1,425 1,165 Other including home, rescue, pet : UK 10,919 10,518 6,697 Gross insurance reserves total m 7,394 6,582 3,002 prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer in 2004 of certain activities to Manufacturing and to recognise a reclassification of income from net fees and commissions to insurance premium income.
2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 Contribution increased by 42% or 253 million to 862 million Contribution increased by 34% or 153 million to 609 million.
and included the first full year's contribution from Churchill, Excluding Churchill, contribution increased by 22% or 99 million.
which was acquired in September 2003.
Excluding Churchill, Total income was up 52% or 1,106 million to 3,245 million.
Excluding Churchill, total income grew by 25% or 525 million.
Total income was up 52% or 1,689 million to 4,934 million.
After reinsurance, insurance premium income was up 60% or Excluding Churchill, total income grew by 17%, 450 million.
Excluding Churchill, insurance After reinsurance, insurance premium income was up 58% or premium income net of reinsurance grew by 25% or 490 1,821 million to 4,944 million.
The number of UK in-force motor insurance policies insurance premium income grew by 17%.
At 31 December increased by 3.4 million of which 3.1 million was from Churchill, 2004, the number of UK in-force motor insurance policies was while the number of UK in-force home insurance policies 8.3 million and the number of in-force motor policies in increased by 3.6 million including 3.4 million from Churchill.
The International Division The number of motor policies in Continental Europe increased passed the milestone of 1 million motor policies in Spain in by 260,000 during the year.
Non-motor policies, including home, rescue and pet Other income net of commissions payable was down from insurance, increased to 10.9 million at 31 December 2004.
Excluding Churchill, which Net fees and commissions payable increased from 161 million included 148 million commissions payable to brokers and to 488 million, due mainly to commissions payable to intermediaries, other income was up 19% or 35 million due to intermediaries in the broker division acquired as part of higher investment income, embedded value profits and share Churchill.
Other income was up due to the acquisition of of associates profits.
Churchill and increased investment income driven by higher Expenses increased by 32% or 108 million to 441 million.
section Excluding Churchill, expenses increased by 10% or 33 Expenses increased by 34% or 151 million to 592 million.
Staff numbers, excluding Churchill, increased by 4% 01 Excluding Churchill, expenses increased by 10%, 37 million, 400 to support growth in business volumes, particularly in the to support higher business volumes.
Net claims, after reinsurance, increased by 59% or 1,285 Net claims, after reinsurance, increased by 63% or 845 million million to 3,480 million.
Excluding Churchill, net claims to 2,195 million.
Excluding Churchill, net claims increased by increased by 20%, consistent with mix and volume growth.
The UK combined operating ratio, which includes UK combined operating ratio was 91.2%.
Excluding Churchill, manufacturing costs, was 93.7% compared with 91.2% for the UK ratio was 88.6% compared with 88.2% for 2002.
This deterioration is attributable in part to a change in business mix due to the full year impact of commissions payable to brokers and intermediaries in Churchill.
Excluding Churchill, the UK ratio was broadly in line with the prior year 2004 89.9%: 2003 88.6%.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 88 Operating and financial review continued Ulster Bank 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net interest income 550 396 339 Non-interest income 193 185 181 Total income 743 581 520 Expenses staff costs 158 137 122 other 77 58 58 235 195 180 88 Contribution before provisions 508 386 340 Provisions 40 32 22 Contribution 468 354 318 bn bn bn Total assets 27.4 15.6 12.7 Loans and advances to customers gross mortgages 8.8 2.8 1.8 other 12.9 8.8 7.3 Customer deposits 13.5 9.7 8.8 Weighted risk assets 18.5 11.0 9.0 Average exchange rate 1.474 1.445 1.591 Spot exchange rate 1.418 1.416 1.536 prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer in 2004 of certain activities to Manufacturing.
2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 Contribution increased by 32% or 114 million to 468 million.
Contribution increased by 11% or 36 million to 354 million driven by strong volume growth in both loan and deposit products.
Total income increased by 28% or 162 million to 743 million The number of customers increased in 2003 by 36,000. reflecting the acquisition of First Active and strong organic growth, particularly in residential mortgages.
Adjusting for First Total income increased by 12% or 61 million to 581 million Active and the disposal in October 2003 of NCB Stockbrokers reflecting the strong volume growth, in particular residential 'NCB', income increased by 12% at constant exchange rates.
During 2004, the number of customers increased by 454,000, of which 374,000 relate to First Active.
Net interest income rose by 17% or 57 million to 396 million, reflecting strong growth in both average customer lending and Net interest income rose by 39% or 154 million to 550 deposits which increased by 26% or 2.1 billion, to 10.1 million, reflecting strong growth across all customer lending billion and by 13% or 1.0 billion, to 8.9 billion respectively.
products and in customer deposits.
Excluding First Active and NCB and at constant exchange rates, net interest income Non-interest income increased by 4 million to 185 million.
The net interest margin decreased mainly Strong growth in lending, transmission and card fee income due to strong growth in low risk mortgage lending both organic was partially offset by lower dealing profits.
Uncertainty in and due to the acquisition of First Active, a leading mortgage equity markets adversely affected brokerage fees in the provider in the Republic of Ireland.
Underlying product stockbroking business which was sold in October 2003. margins remain stable.
Expenses increased by 8% or 15 million to 195 million.
This Non-interest income increased by 8 million, 4% to 193 reflected the annual pay award and the additional costs to million.
Strong growth in lending fees and sales of treasury support increased business volumes.
products was partially offset by a reduction in brokerage fees following the disposal of NCB.
Excluding First Active and NCB, The charge for provisions for bad debts was up 10 million to non-interest income was up 6%, 10 million.
32 million reflecting growth in lending.
Expenses increased by 21% or 40 million to 235 million.
Excluding First Active and NCB expenses increased by 8% to support the growth in business.
The charge for provisions for bad debts increased by 8 million to 40 million, reflecting the growth in lending business.
Excluding First Active and NCB provisions for bad and doubtful debts were up 4 million.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 89 Citizens 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net interest income 1,540 1,310 1,248 Non-interest income 601 514 468 Total income 2,141 1,824 1,716 Expenses staff costs 551 505 485 other 473 374 370 1,024 879 855 Contribution before provisions 1,117 945 861 89 Provisions 80 88 95 Contribution 1,037 857 766 $bn $bn $bn Total assets 132.1 76.8 61.1 Loans and advances to customers gross 83.4 43.5 31.4 Customer deposits 99.2 62.8 51.1 Weighted risk assets 87.4 50.8 38.8 Average exchange rate $ 1.832 1.635 1.503 Spot exchange rate $ 1.935 1.786 1.613 2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 Contribution was affected by the weak US dollar relative to Contribution which increased by 12% or 91 million to 857 sterling and at 1,037 million was up 21%, 180 million.
In US million was diminished by the weakening of the US dollar in dollar terms, contribution increased by 36% or $499 million to relation to sterling.
In US dollar terms, contribution increased $1,900 million.
Excluding the acquisitions, contribution by 22% or $250 million to $1,401 million.
increased by 13% or $183 million to $1,570 million.
Total income was up 16% or $406 million to $2,984 million.
Total income was up 31% or $939 million to $3,923 million.
During 2004, Citizens increased its personal customer base by Net interest income increased by 14% or $268 million to 1,993,000 accounts and its business customers by 174,000.
Excluding the acquisitions, net interest income Excluding the acquisitions, Citizens increased its personal was up 9% or $164 million 100 million, reflecting strong customers by 199,000 and its business customers by 30,000. organic growth in personal loans and deposits.
Excluding the acquisitions, average loans were up 29% or $8.0 billion and Net interest income increased by 32% or $678 million to average deposits were up 20% or $9.1 billion.
The benefit of $2,821 million, reflecting the acquisitions and strong organic this growth was reduced by a narrowing interest margin due to growth in both personal loans and deposits.
Excluding the reductions in US interest rates.
acquisitions, net interest income increased by 11% or $228 million, average loans were up 24% or $8.8 billion and average Non-interest income rose by 20% or $138 million to $841 deposits were up 14% or $8.0 billion.
The benefit from higher million.
Excluding the acquisitions, non-interest income was up volumes more than offset the impact of interest rates on margins.
Non-interest income rose by 31% or $261 million to $1,102 Expenses increased by 12% or $153 million to $1,438 million.
Excluding the acquisitions, non-interest income Excluding the acquisitions, expenses increased by 8% or $102 section increased 6% or $47 million before a reduction in mortgage million 62 million, to support higher business volumes and fees, down from $53 million to $24 million in 2004. expansion of Citizens supermarket banking programme.
01 Expenses increased by 31% or $439 million to $1,877 million.
Provisions were up $3 million from $142 million to $145 million.
Excluding acquisitions, expenses were up 7% due to additional Excluding the acquisitions, provisions were $2 million 1 costs to support higher business volumes, investment in million, or 1%, lower than 2002. Credit quality metrics branch automation and the expansion of traditional and remained strong and total non-performing loans were 0.40% supermarket banking in Mid Atlantic and New England.
of total loans and advances at 31 December 2003 compared with 0.57% at the end of 2002.
Provisions increased by only $1 million to $146 million, with credit quality metrics remaining strong.
In 2003, Citizens increased its personal customer base by 376,000 accounts and its business customers by 36,000 due to growth through both traditional and supermarket branches, and the acquisition of Commonwealth Bancorp, Inc.
Port Financial Corp. and Community Bancorp, Inc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 90 Operating and financial review continued Central items 2004 2003 2002 m m m Funding costs 284 215 215 Departmental and corporate costs 595 496 283 Total Central items 879 711 498 prior periods have been restated following the implementation of FRS 17.
90 2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 Total Central items increased by 168 million to 879 million.
Total Central items increased by 213 million to 711 million.
Funding costs at 284 million, were up 32% or 69 million Funding costs were 215 million.
Increased income from reflecting the funding of the various acquisitions undertaken by higher shareholders funds was offset by the funding costs the Group during the year.
associated with the acquisition of Churchill in September 2003 and the 1.5 billion AVS dividend paid in December 2003.
Changes in net pension costs on the adoption of FRS 17 are reported in Central items.
These comprise higher pension cost Central departmental costs and other corporate items at 496 of 81 million partially offset by the expected return on million were 213 million or 75% higher than 2002.
Net pension pension scheme assets less interest on scheme liabilities of costs increased by 172 million reflecting lower returns on 33 million.
pension scheme assets together with increased pension costs.
This was also partly due to staff costs and other costs relating to Central departmental costs and other corporate items at 595 certain departments such as Customer Relations which have million were 99 million or 20% higher than 2003.
This is been centralised and additional resources devoted to Group principally due to higher Group pension costs, up 48 million, wide projects such as preparations for the implementation of the centralisation of certain functions and expenditure on Basel II and International Accounting Standards.
Group-wide projects such as International Accounting Standards and Basel II.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 91 Employee numbers at 31 December 2004 2003 2002 Corporate Banking and Financial Markets 16,400 15,900 16,900 Retail Banking 32,200 31,100 30,500 Retail Direct 9,700 7,300 7,000 Manufacturing 24,900 23,400 23,200 Wealth Management 5,200 5,200 5,600 RBS Insurance 19,500 18,800 10,300 Ulster Bank 4,100 3,400 3,300 Citizens 22,600 14,100 13,300 91 Centre 2,000 1,700 1,700 Group total 136,600 120,900 111,800 Acquisitions in the year 10,500 9,700 5,600 Underlying 126,100 111,200 106,200 prior periods have been restated to reflect the transfer in 2004 of certain activities from Wealth Management to Retail Banking and from RBS Insurance and Ulster Bank to Manufacturing.
2004 compared with 2003 2003 compared with 2002 The number of employees increased by 15,700, 13% to The number of employees increased by 9,100, 8% to 120,900.
The acquisitions in the year added 10,500 staff, The acquisition of Churchill added 8,500 staff in RBS Insurance.
including over 8,100 relating to Charter One.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 92 Operating and financial review continued Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2004 2004 2003 m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 4,293 3,822 Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,629 2,501 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 6,110 4,846 Loans and advances to banks 58,260 51,891 Loans and advances to customers 345,469 252,531 92 Debt securities 91,211 79,949 Equity shares 2,960 2,300 Intangible fixed assets 17,576 13,131 Tangible fixed assets 16,294 13,927 Settlement balances 5,682 2,857 Other assets 22,255 17,807 Prepayments and accrued income 6,928 5,309 579,667 450,871 Long-term assurance assets attributable to policyholders 3,800 3,557 Total assets 583,467 454,428 Liabilities Deposits by banks 99,081 67,323 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 802 958 Customer accounts 285,062 236,963 Debt securities in issue 58,960 41,016 Settlement balances and short positions 32,990 21,369 Other liabilities 26,152 20,584 Accruals and deferred income 15,588 13,155 Post-retirement benefit liabilities 1,901 1,445 Provisions for liabilities and charges 3,071 2,249 Subordinated liabilities 20,366 16,998 Minority interests equity 158 11 non-equity 3,671 2,724 Shareholders funds equity 27,345 23,175 non-equity 4,520 2,923 579,667 450,871 Long-term assurance liabilities attributable to policyholders 3,800 3,557 Total liabilities 583,467 454,428 Analysis of repurchase agreements included above Reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing Loans and advances to banks 29,975 26,522 Loans and advances to customers 52,184 24,069 82,159 50,591 Repurchase agreements and stock lending Deposits by banks 43,342 27,044 Customer accounts 42,134 27,021 85,476 54,065 restated see page 139 Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 93 Overview of consolidated balance sheet including the acquisition of Charter One and Ulster Bank, 3.8 Total assets of 583.5 billion at 31 December 2004 were up billion, including First Active.
In $ terms, Citizens grew US$36.4 129.0 billion, 28%, compared with 31 December 2003, billion, 58%, including US$29.1 billion related to acquisitions.
reflecting business growth and acquisitions.
Debt securities in issue increased by 17.9 billion, 44%, to Treasury bills and other eligible bills increased by 1.3 billion, 59.0 billion primarily to meet the Group's funding requirements.
26%, to 6.1 billion, reflecting trading activity.
The increase in settlement balances and short positions Loans and advances to banks rose 6.4 billion, 12%, to 58.3 reflected growth in customer activity.
Bank placings were up 2.9 billion, 11% to 28.3 billion, 93 and reverse repurchase agreements and stock borrowing Other liabilities rose by 5.6 billion, 27% to 26.2 billion, reverse repos, were up 3.5 billion, 13%, to 30.0 billion.
principally due to an increase in the mark-to-market value of trading derivatives.
Loans and advances to customers were up 92.9 billion, 37%, to 345.5 billion.
Within this, reverse repos increased by 28.1 Accruals and deferred income increased by 2.4 billion, 18% billion to 52.2 billion reflecting growth in trading activities.
Excluding reverse repos, lending increased by 64.8 billion, 28% to 293.3 billion reflecting organic growth across all Post-retirement benefit liabilities, recognised on the adoption of divisions and 23.4 billion arising from acquisitions, principally FRS 17, were up 0.5 billion, 32% to 1.9 billion with actuarial Charter One, 18.0 billion, First Active, 4.1 billion, and the losses, net of deferred tax, up 1.1 billion, mainly due to changes People's Bank credit card business, 1.0 billion.
In $ terms, in actuarial assumptions, partially offset by asset growth and a Citizens grew US$39.5 billion, 92%, including US$32.7 billion 750 million payment to the RBS Group Pension Fund.
Provisions for liabilities and charges increased 0.8 billion, 37% Debt securities increased by 11.3 billion, 14%, to 91.2 billion, to 3.1 billion principally due to higher provisions for deferred tax.
principally due to increased holdings in Financial Markets and the acquisition of First Active.
Subordinated liabilities were up 3.4 billion, 20% to 20.4 billion.
This reflected the issue of 1.3 billion US$2,425 million, 0.7 Equity shares were up 0.7 billion, 29%, to 3.0 billion, mainly billion 1,000 million and 0.4 billion AUD1,000 million due to the acquisition of Charter One and growth in Financial dated loan capital, and 1.1 billion 1,100 million, 1.0 billion Markets trading activity.
1,500 million and 0.1 billion JPY25 billion undated loan capital, together with 0.1 billion of dated and undated loan Intangible fixed assets increased by 4.4 billion, 34% to 17.6 capital arising from the acquisition of First Active and 0.2 billion billion.
Goodwill arising on the acquisitions made during 2004 dated loan capital arising from the acquisition of Charter One.
amounted to 5.9 billion, including 4.7 billion in respect of This was partially offset by the redemption of dated loan Charter One.
This was partially offset by goodwill amortisation, capital, 0.7 billion US$1,050 million and 140 million, the 0.9 billion and the adverse effect of exchange rate conversion of 0.5 billion US$850 million undated loan capital movements, 0.5 billion.
into US$ preference shares and the effect of exchange rate movements, 0.4 billion.
Tangible fixed assets were up 2.4 billion, 17% to 16.3 billion, mainly reflecting growth in operating lease assets, up 1.4 billion, Non-equity minority interests were up 0.9 billion, 35% to 3.7 22% to 7.8 billion.
billion mainly reflecting the issues by subsidiaries of the Group of US$950 million 0.5 billion non-cumulative trust preferred Settlement balances increased by 2.8 billion to 5.7 billion as securities in August 2004 and US$1,000 million 0.6 billion nona result of increased levels of customer activity.
cumulative trust preferred securities in August September 2004. section Other assets rose by 4.4 billion, 25% to 22.3 billion, mainly Shareholders' funds increased by 5.8 billion, 22% to 31.9 due to an increase in the mark-to-market value of trading billion including 2.6 billion from the placing of 165 million 01 derivatives and acquisitions.
ordinary shares in connection with the acquisition of Charter One, the issue of 1.3 billion preference share capital and Deposits by banks increased by 31.8 billion, 47% to 99.1 billion conversion of 0.5 billion US$850 million undated loan capital to fund business growth, with repurchase agreements and into US$ preference shares.
The remainder reflects retentions stock lending repos up 16.3 billion, 60%, to 43.3 billion of 2.4 billion and the issue of 0.6 billion of ordinary shares and inter-bank deposits up 15.5 billion, 38% to 55.8 billion.
in respect of scrip dividends and the exercise of share options and revaluation of premises, 0.1 billion, which were partly Customer accounts were up 48.1 billion, 20% at 285.1 offset by 1.1 billion actuarial losses, net of deferred tax, billion.
Within this, repos were up 15.1 billion, 56% to 42.1 recognised in post-retirement benefit schemes and the billion reflecting growth in trading activities.
Excluding repos, adverse effect of exchange rate movements on share premium deposits rose by 33.0 billion, 16%, to 243.0 billion with account, 0.2 billion and profit and loss account, 0.4 billion.
growth in CBFM, 6.3 billion, Retail Banking, 4.1 billion, Wealth Management, 2.7 billion, Citizens, 15.8 billion, Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 94 Operating and financial review continued Cash flow 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,307 19,708 13,737 Dividends received from associated undertakings 9 91 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 1,070 956 1,103 Taxation 1,394 1,454 1,107 Capital expenditure and financial investment 1,526 6,965 9,185 Acquisitions and disposals 7,674 1,571 281 Equity and AVS dividends paid 1,235 2,235 1,527 94 Financing 9,369 4,128 2,711 Increase in cash 2,786 10,664 3,246 2004 Net purchases of investment securities of 3,056 million and The major factors contributing to the net cash inflow of fixed assets of 3,909 million, including operating lease assets 6,307 million from operating activities in 2004 were the profit and investment properties, comprised the net cash outflow before tax of 6,917 million, increases in deposits and debt from capital expenditure and financial investment.
securities in issue of 70,580 million, increases in short positions and settlement balances of 8,796 million, partially Equity and Additional Value Shares AVS dividends paid offset by increases in treasury and other eligible bills of 1,264 includes the final dividend on the AVS of 1,463 million.
million, increases in securities of 10,367 million and increases in loans and advances of 72,913 million.
The issue of 883 million trust preferred securities and 3,817 million subordinated debt, partially offset by the redemption of Interest on subordinated liabilities of 613 million and preference shares of 364 million and repayment of 336 dividends of 457 million to preference and minority million of subordinated debt were the main contributors to the shareholders were paid during the year.
net cash inflow from financing of 4,128 million.
Net sales of investment securities of 1,232 million and net 2002 purchases of fixed assets of 2,758 million, including The major factors contributing to the net cash inflow of 13,737 operating lease assets and investment properties, comprised million from operating activities in 2002 were the profit before the net cash inflow from capital expenditure and financial tax of 4,852 million and an increase in deposits, debt investment.
securities in issue and other liabilities of 40,981 million, which were partially offset by the increase in loans and advances of The issue of 1,075 million trust preferred securities and 4,624 35,426 million.
million subordinated debt, partially offset by the repayment of 718 million of subordinated debt were the main contributors Interest on subordinated liabilities of 674 million and dividends to the net cash inflow from financing of 9,369 million.
of 429 million to preference and minority shareholders were paid during the year.
2003 The major factors contributing to the net cash inflow of 19,708 Net purchases of investment securities of 6,629 million and million from operating activities in 2003 were the profit before fixed assets of 2,556 million, including operating lease assets, tax of 6,076 million, increases in deposits and debt securities comprised the net cash outflow from capital expenditure and in issue of 33,935 million, increases in short positions and financial investment.
settlement balances of 3,202 million and decreases in treasury and other eligible bills of 6,626 million, partially Equity and AVS dividends paid includes the second dividend offset by the net increase in loans and advances of 23,343 on the AVS of 798 million.
million and increases in securities of 9,871 million.
The issue of 1,242 million trust preferred securities and Interest on subordinated liabilities of 557 million and 2,157 million subordinated debt, partially offset by the dividends of 399 million to preference and minority redemption of preference shares of 600 million and repayment shareholders were paid during the year.
of 202 million of subordinated debt were the main contributors to the net cash inflow from financing of 2,711 million.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 057-095 7 3 05 11:08 am Page 95 UK GAAP compared with US GAAP employees under US GAAP.
Actuarial gains and losses are The Groups financial statements are prepared in accordance recognised in full in the statement of total recognised gains with UK GAAP, which differs in certain material respects from and losses for the period under UK GAAP.
US GAAP as described on pages 187 to 199.
A net decrease in net income of 261 million relating to The net income available for ordinary shareholders under US capitalisation and amortisation of software development GAAP was 3,948 million, 308 million lower than profit costs that meet certain criteria under US GAAP.
Such costs attributable to ordinary shareholders under UK GAAP of are generally charged to the profit and loss account under 4,256 million.
The principle reasons for the decrease are: UK GAAP.
95 A reduction of 437 million relating to derivatives and The above decreases are partially offset by an increase of hedging.
Under US GAAP, non-derivative financial 780 million in net income under US GAAP relating to intangible instruments cannot be designated as hedges of the foreign assets.
Goodwilll amortisation is charged to the profit and loss exchange exposure of available-for-sale securities: such account under UK GAAP whereas under US GAAP only hedging is permitted under UK GAAP.
Under US GAAP, the intangible assets with finite lives are amortised.
Goodwill is not Group has not designated any of its non-trading derivatives amortised but instead is reviewed annually for impairment.
as hedges and these are recorded at fair value.
Furthermore, US GAAP requires certain embedded derivatives to be US GAAP shareholders equity at 36,191 million is 4,326 accounted for separately from the host instrument.
million higher than shareholders equity under UK GAAP, principally due to the reinstatement of goodwill amortised Higher pension costs under US GAAP compared with UK under UK GAAP and the reversal of the final dividend.
GAAP principally reflecting deferral of actuarial gains and losses over the average remaining service lives of current Capital resources The following table analyses the Groups regulatory capital resources at the period end: 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Capital base Tier 1 capital 22,694 19,399 17,155 15,052 12,071 Tier 2 capital 20,229 16,439 13,271 11,734 10,082 Tier 3 capital 172 167 42,923 35,838 30,426 26,958 22,320 Less: investments in insurance subsidiaries, associated undertakings and other supervisory deductions 5,165 4,618 3,146 2,698 2,228 Total capital 37,758 31,220 27,280 24,260 20,092 Weighted risk assets Banking book: On-balance sheet 261,800 214,400 193,800 176,000 146,600 Off-balance sheet 44,900 36,400 28,700 22,000 16,200 Trading book 17,100 12,900 11,500 12,500 12,400 323,800 263,700 234,000 210,500 175,200 Risk asset ratios % %%%% section Tier 1 7.0 7.4 7.3 7.1 6.9 01 Total 11.7 11.8 11.7 11.5 11.5 It is the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital base, to UK banking sector, comparing a banks capital resources with expand it as appropriate and to utilise it efficiently throughout its weighted risk assets the assets and off-balance sheet its activities to optimise the return to shareholders while exposures are weighted to reflect the inherent credit and maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base other risks : by international agreement, the RAR should be and the underlying risks of the business.
In carrying out this not less than 8% with a tier 1 component of not less than 4%.
policy, the Group has regard to the supervisory requirements At 31 December 2004, the Groups total RAR was 11.7% of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
Asset Ratio RAR as a measure of capital adequacy in the Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 96 Operating and financial review continued Risk management Group Risk Management GRM reports to the GEMC through the Group Finance Director and is responsible for Framework risk policy, measurement and controls across the Group.
An A number of high-level committees support the Board in the assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of each effective measurement and management of risk.
Board subdivisional risk management team is undertaken by GRM on a committees have the following roles and responsibilities: continuous basis to ensure effective control of risks.
Each divisional risk function has a direct reporting line to the Group Audit Committee is a non-executive committee that Director of Group Risk Management, which reinforces these supports the Board in carrying out its responsibilities for controls and ensures independence of risk management financial reporting including accounting policies, and in within each division.
96 respect of internal control and risk assessment.
The Group Audit Committee monitors the ongoing process of the Group Treasury GT also reports to the GEMC through the identification, evaluation and management of all significant Group Finance Director, and is responsible for the management risks throughout the Group.
The Committee is supported by of the Groups balance sheet, capital raising, liquidity and Group Internal Audit which provides an independent hedging policies.
GT assesses and monitors the effectiveness assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of the of the divisional asset and liability management teams.
GRM and GT also respond to various regulatory developments Advances Committee is an executive committee that deals affecting risk, capital and liquidity management.
This includes with all transactions that exceed the Group Credit working with international and domestic trade associations, Committees delegated authority, which in turn approves being active with various regulators, especially the FSA, and facility limits in excess of the authorities delegated to encouraging discussions with the main regulatory and political divisional credit committees.
groups, such as the Basel Committee and the EU Commission.
In addition to the responsibilities at Board level outlined above, The principal risks that the Group manages are as follows: operational authority and oversight is delegated to the Group Executive Management Committee GEMC, which is Credit risk responsible for implementing a risk management framework consistent with the Board's risk appetite.
The GEMC, in turn, is Liquidity risk supported by: Market risk Group Risk Committee GRC, which recommends and Insurance risk approves limits, processes and policies in respect of the Enterprise risk effective management of all material risks across the Group.
These risks are discussed on pages 97 to 112.
Group Asset and Liability Management Committee GALCO which is responsible for reviewing the balance sheet, funding and capital implications of the Group's strategy and operations.
In addition, GALCO monitors and reviews legal, regulatory and accounting developments affecting balance sheet risks and capital.
It also reviews the effect of external, economic and environmental changes on the Group's balance sheet, risks, margins and capital.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 97 Credit risk Different credit approval processes exist for each customer Credit risk is the risk arising from the possibility that the Group type in order to ensure appropriate skills and resources are will incur losses from the failure of customers to meet their employed in credit assessment and approval.
exposures are aggregated to determine the appropriate level of credit approval required and to facilitate consolidated credit The credit risk framework risk management: The management of credit risk is undertaken within an agreed and regulated Credit Risk Framework which is defined in the Retail and personal businesses employ market best practice Groups Principles for Managing Credit Risk.
These set out credit scoring techniques to process small scale, large volume minimum standards for managing credit risk, defining and credit decisions.
Scores from such systems are combined 97 maintaining the credit risk framework, approving credit risk with management judgement to ensure an effective ongoing taken by the Group, credit stewardship and reviewing the process of approval, review and enhancement.
Credit effectiveness of the credit culture.
These standards are used decisions for loans above specified thresholds, including to manage the Groups portfolio of credit risk assets.
lending to SMEs, are individually assessed.
All credit risk exposures require approval by authorised Assessments of corporate borrower and transaction risk are individuals or credit committees, independent of business undertaken using a range of credit rating models revenue generation.
Existing credit risk exposures are supplemented by the judgement of relationship managers.
monitored and reviewed periodically against approved risk Specialist internal credit risk departments independently limits.
Review occurs at least annually with the lower quality oversee the credit process and make decisions or exposures being subject to greater frequency of analysis and recommendations to the appropriate credit committee.
Exposures below specified thresholds and Credit authority is not extended to relationship managers.
meeting specific criteria can be approved through authorised, largely automated, processes.
Financial Markets counterparties are approved by a dedicated credit function which specialises in the traded market product risk.
GRM and the GEMC review the reports on the Groups portfolio of credit risks on a monthly basis.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 98 Operating and financial review continued Credit risk continued Risk asset quality Asset quality S&P equivalent Internal reporting and oversight of risk assets is principally AQ1 AAA to BBBdifferentiated by credit ratings.
Internal ratings are used to AQ2 BB to BB assess the credit quality of borrowers.
Customers are assigned AQ3 BBto B credit ratings, based on statistical and judgemental rating AQ4 B to B systems that map to a Group asset quality scale reflecting the AQ5 B and below probability of default.
Over the past year, RBS has made significant strides in updating its credit grading models to take account of the new Basel Capital Accord see page 219.
98 As at December 2004, exposure to investment grade Distribution of risk assets by asset quality counterparties AQ1 accounted for over half of risk assets.
Over 97% of exposures were to counterparties rated AQ4 or higher.
Loans and advances The Groups loan portfolio consists of loans including overdraft facilities, instalment credit and finance lease receivables.
The value of loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2004 was 349,691 million 2003 256,453 million, representing an increase of 93,238 million 36% over the year, of which 23,468 million relates to the largest three acquisitions Charter One, First Active & Peoples Bank Cards and 28,115 million relates to growth in reverse repo activity.
Including banks, total loans and advances at 31 December 2004 was 407,957 million 2003 308,351 million, an increase of 32%.
2004 2003 2002 Loans and advances gross m m m Loans and advances to customers by division gross CBFM 176,690 128,124 117,365 Retail Banking 72,197 61,809 55,619 Retail Direct 25,206 22,024 19,350 Wealth Management 9,221 7,894 7,267 Ulster Bank 21,659 11,633 9,111 Citizens 43,104 24,384 19,457 Other 1,614 585 925 Loans and advances to customers gross 349,691 256,453 227,244 Loans and advances to banks gross 58,266 51,898 44,303 Total loans and advances gross 407,957 308,351 271,547 Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 99 l Industry analysis Industry analysis plays an important part in assessing potential concentration risk within the loan portfolio.
Particular attention is given to industry sectors where the Group believes there is a higher degree of risk or potential for volatility in the future.
2004 2003 2002 Loans and advances to customers by industry m m m Central and local government 3,079 2,100 2,385 Finance 70,453 38,936 34,079 Individuals home mortgages 91,657 61,960 49,986 99 other 43,875 35,027 30,021 Other commercial and industrial comprising: Manufacturing 14,883 12,769 14,715 Construction 7,976 5,839 5,152 Service industries and business activities 57,305 50,772 48,155 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 3,024 3,081 3,026 Property 41,113 31,629 26,593 Finance leases and instalment credit 16,326 14,340 13,132 Total loans and advances to customers gross 349,691 256,453 227,244 The increase in Finance was principally due to higher level of reverse repurchase agreements which by industry were as follows: 2004 2003 2002 Reverse repurchase agreements m m m Central and local government 1,413 1,079 1,000 Finance 50,771 22,883 20,941 Service industries and business activities 107 Total 52,184 24,069 21,941 2004 loans and advances to customers by industry segment Together, corporates, financial institutions and sovereigns, account for 61% of loans and advances.
The remaining exposures, accounting for 39% of loans and advances, relate to personal and retail customers, especially mortgage lending and other small loans that are intrinsically highly diversified.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 100 Operating and financial review continued Credit risk continued l Geographic analysis Although the Group is active in 27 different countries, its principal focus is on the UK, US and Europe.
Geographically, 90% of loans and advances to customers fall within the UK or US, both of which have experienced stable or improving economic growth.
Europe accounts for about 9% of loans and advances to customers.
The UK includes domestic transactions and transactions conducted through the offices in the UK which service international banking transactions.
l Cross border exposures Cross border exposures are defined as loans to banks and customers including finance lease and instalment credit receivables and other monetary assets, including non-local currency claims of overseas offices on local residents.
The Group monitors the geographical breakdown of these exposures based on the country of domicile of the borrower or guarantor of ultimate risk.
The table below sets out the Groups cross border outstandings in excess of 0.75% of Group total assets including acceptances, which totalled 583.8 billion 2003 455.0 billion: 2002 413.6 billion.
None of these countries has experienced repayment difficulties that have required refinancing of outstanding debt.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 101 Risk elements in lending and potential problem loans The table below sets out the Groups loans that are classified as non-accrual, accruing past due and restructured loans together risk elements in lending REIL or potential problem loans PPL as defined by the SEC in the US.
The figures incorporate estimates and are stated before deducting the value of security held or related provisions.
2004 2003 2002 REIL and PPL m m m Non-accrual loans 2 4,780 4,432 4,175 Accrual loans past due 90 days 3 725 642 492 Troubled debt restructurings 24 83 204 101 Total REIL 5,529 5,157 4,871 PPL 4 280 591 1,183 Total REIL and PPL 5,809 5,748 6,054 Notes: 1 The classification of a loan as non-accrual, past due 90 days or troubled debt restructuring does not necessarily indicate that the principal of the loan is uncollectable in whole or in part.
Collection depends in each case on the individual circumstances of the loan, including the adequacy of any collateral securing the loan and therefore classification of a loan as non-accrual, past due 90 days or troubled debt restructuring does not always require that a provision be made against such a loan.
In accordance with the Groups provisioning policy for bad and doubtful debts, it is considered that adequate provisions for the above risk elements in lending have been made.
2 The Groups UK banking subsidiary undertakings account for loans on a non-accrual basis from the point in time at which the collectability of interest is in significant doubt.
Certain subsidiary undertakings of the Group, principally Citizens, generally account for loans on a non-accrual basis when interest or principal is past due 90 days.
3 Overdrafts generally have no fixed repayment schedule and consequently are not included in this category.
4 Loans which are current as to the payment of principal and interest but in respect of which management have serious doubts about the ability of the borrowers to comply with contractual repayment terms.
Substantial security is held in respect of these loans and appropriate provisions are made in accordance with the Groups provisioning policy for bad and doubtful debts.
REIL increased to 5,529 million, a rise of 7% compared with REIL and PPL as a percentage of loans and advances 2003 partly due to acquisitions made in 2004.
REIL as a proportion of total loans and advances to customers was 1.58% in 2004 2003 2.01%: 2002 2.14%, reflecting active risk management, growth in lower risk portfolios and improvements in the economic environment in the Groups key markets.
REIL and PPL in aggregate, as a proportion of loans and advances also shows an improving trend, accounting for 1.66% of loans and advances to customers in 2004 2003 2.24%: 2002 2.66%.
Provisions Corporate portfolios consist of higher value, lower volume The Group provides for losses in its loan portfolio so as to credits, which tend to be structured to meet individual record impaired loans and advances at their expected ultimate customers requirements.
These portfolios do not have an net realisable value.
The objective is to set provisions based on automated provisioning process, relying on individual expert the current understanding of the portfolio.
To reach this judgement and provisioning committees to provide the understanding, retail and corporate loans and advances are necessary controls and oversight to identify problems.
01 Early and proactive management of problem exposures ensures The Groups retail portfolios which consist of small value, high that credit losses are minimised.
Specialised units are used for volume credits have highly efficient largely automated processes different customer types to ensure that the appropriate risk for identifying problem credits and very short timescales, mitigation is taken in a timely manner.
typically three months, before resolution or adoption of various recovery measures.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 102 Operating and financial review continued Credit risk continued General provisions: cover losses that have not yet been Specific and general provisions specifically identified but are known from experience to be Provisions fall into one of two categories, specific or general: present in any portfolio of loans.
The level of general provision reflects the size and diversity of the Groups loan Specific provisions: arise when the creditworthiness of a portfolio, past experience, the current state of the borrower has undergone a significant deterioration and the economies in which the Group operates and the scope of recovery of the advance is in significant doubt.
The amount specific provisioning procedures.
of specific provision reflects the financial condition of the borrower, the realisable value of security and the costs of recovery.
102 2004 2003 2002 Provision charge m m m Charge to profit and loss account for bad and doubtful debts 1,428 1,461 1,286 Charge as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers 0.48% 0.59% 0.61% Provisions for bad and doubtful debts charged to the profit and loss account in 2004 were 1,428 million, down 33 million 2% from 1,461 million in 2003.
Expressed as a percentage of average loans and advances to customers, the bad and doubtful debt charge improved to 0.48%, from 0.59% in 2003.
2004 2003 2002 Summary of provisions m m m 1 Specific provision 3,648 3,356 3,323 General provision 574 566 597 Total bad and doubtful debt provisions 4,222 3,922 3,920 Total loans and advances to customers 349,691 256,453 227,244 Specific provision as a percentage of loans and advances to customers 1.04% 1.31% 1.46% General provision as a percentage of loans and advances to customers 0.17% 0.22% 0.26% Total provisions as a percentage of loans and advances to customers 1.21% 1.53% 1.72% Closing provisions for bad and doubtful debts expressed as a: % of REIL 76% 76% 80% % of REIL and PPL 73% 68% 65% 1 Excludes specific provisions against loans and advances to banks of 6 million 2003 7 million: 2002 7 million Total bad and doubtful debt provisions increased to 4,222 The coverage ratio of closing provisions as a percentage of million in 2004, compared with 3,922 million in 2003, a rise of REIL remained stable at 76% while the coverage ratio of total 8%, reflecting acquisitions, new provisions and write-offs net of closing provisions as a percentage of REIL and PPL increased to recoveries and currency translations.
The ratio of provisions to 73% from 68% at the end of 2003. loans and advances to customers reduced from 1.53% at the end of 2003 to 1.21%.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 103 Analysis of specific provisions The table below shows specific provisions by industry and geographic area.
2 The geographic analysis is based on location of office.
Amounts written off and recovered The table below shows the amounts written off by industry and geographical area.
2004 2003 2002 m m m Industry: Finance 20 66 44 Individuals home mortgages 4 22 Individuals other 676 415 391 Other commercial and industrial 768 1,036 598 1,468 1,519 1,035 Geography: UK 1,109 1,333 803 US 292 156 164 Europe 54 15 40 Rest of the World 13 15 28 Total amounts written off 1,468 1,519 1,035 Notes: 1 Excludes amounts written off in respect of banks of nil 2003 nil: 2002 1 million.
The following table shows amounts previously written off and subsequently recovered during the year by industry and geographical area.
2004 2003 2002 m m m Industry: section Finance 4 1 01 Individuals other 105 42 41 Other commercial and industrial 38 29 22 147 72 63 Geography: UK 88 38 37 US 46 25 21 Europe 4 44 Rest of the World 9 51 Total recoveries 147 72 63 Notes: 1 The geographic analysis is based on location of office.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 104 Operating and financial review continued Liquidity risk Short-term liquidity risk is managed on a consolidated basis for Liquidity management within the Group focuses on both overall the whole Group excluding the activities of Citizens and insurance balance sheet structure and the control, within prudent limits, businesses, which are subject to regulatory regimes that of risk arising from the mismatch of maturities across the balance necessitate the separate management of liquidity.
sheet and from undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations.
Internal liquidity mismatch limits are set for all other subsidiaries and non-UK branches which have material local treasury The management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken activities in external markets, to ensure those activities do not within limits and other policy parameters set by GALCO, who compromise daily maintenance of the Groups overall liquidity review monthly and receive, on an exception basis, reports risk position within the Groups policy parameters.
104 detailing compliance with those policy parameters.
A weekly report is also provided to the GEMC.
Compliance is monitored The level of large deposits taken from banks, corporate and co-ordinated daily under the stewardship of the Group customers, non-bank financial institutions and other customers Treasury function, both in respect of internal policy and the and significant cash outflows therefrom are also reviewed to regulatory requirements of the FSA.
Detailed liquidity position monitor concentrations and identify any adverse trends.
reports are compiled each day by Group Treasury and reviewed daily and weekly with Financial Markets, who manage day-to-day The degree of maturity mismatch within the overall long-term and intra-day market execution within the policy parameters set.
structure of the Groups assets and liabilities is also managed within internal policy limits, to ensure that term asset commitments In addition to their consolidation within the Groups daily may be funded on an economic basis over their life.
In liquidity management process, it is also the responsibility of all managing its overall term structure, the Group analyses and Group subsidiaries and branches outside the UK to ensure takes into account the effect of retail and corporate customer compliance with any separate local regulatory liquidity behaviour on actual asset and liability maturities where they requirements where applicable.
differ materially from the underlying contractual maturities.
The structure of the Groups balance sheet is managed to The Group also periodically undertakes stress tests and maintain substantial diversification, to minimise concentration sensitivity analysis to analyse the potential impact on its across its various deposit sources, and to contain the level of liquidity risk.
Contingency plans are maintained to anticipate reliance on total and net short-term wholesale sources of and respond to any approaching or actual material funds within prudent levels.
The short-term maturity structure of the Groups assets and liabilities is also managed on a daily basis to ensure that contractual cash flow obligations, and potential cash flows arising from undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations, can be met as they arise from day to day, either from cash inflows from maturing assets, new borrowing or the sale or repurchase of debt securities held.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 105 Sources of funding Excluding capital and other liabilities, customer accounts continue to provide a majority of the Groups funding and represent a well diversified and stable source of funds from a wide range of retail, corporate and non-bank institutional customers.
Deposits by banks are taken from a wide range of 32,986 million 16%, and represent 51% of the Groups counterparties, with the largest single depositor continuing to funding excluding capital and other liabilities.
Excluding the represent less than 1% of the Groups total funding.
Charter One acquisition the growth would have been 18,381 million 9%.
The proportion of funding from wholesale sources Debt securities in issue increased by 17,944 million to has increased reflecting the higher rate of growth in customer represent 13% of the Groups funding, excluding capital and loans and advances excluding reverse repos, up 65,123 other liabilities, at 31 December 2004.
Total debt securities in million 28% 48,405 million 21% excluding Charter One.
issue at 31 December 2004 includes 9,589 million 2003 9,187 million with a maturity of over one year, reflecting the Repo agreements with corporate and institutional customers activity of the Group in raising term funds through its Euro and are undertaken primarily by RBS Greenwich Capital in the US US Medium Term Note programmes and other term issues.
Repo activity with customers represented 9% of the Groups funding excluding capital and The Group remains well placed to access various wholesale other liabilities at 31 December 2004. funding sources from a wide range of counterparties and markets, and the changing mix evident between customer repos, Deposits by banks including repos increased by 31,758 deposits by banks and debt securities in issue primarily reflects million 27,240 million excluding Charter One to represent comparative pricing, maturity considerations and investor 21% of the Groups funding, excluding capital and other counterparty demand rather than any material perceived trend.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 106 Operating and financial review continued Liquidity risk continued Customer lending and customer accounts Net customer lending rose by 32,137 million as the growth in loans and advances to customers exceeded the growth in customer accounts.
Structural liquidity risk continues to be maintained within the Groups policy parameters.
2004 2003 2002 m m m Loans and advances to customers gross, excluding reverse repos 297,507 232,384 205,303 Customer accounts excluding repos 242,928 209,942 194,101 Customer lending less customer accounts 54,579 22,442 11,202 106 Customer accounts as % of loans and advances to customers excluding repos 81.7% 90.3% 94.5% In prevailing economic conditions and with interest rates at dependence on the wholesale market for funding.
The Group relatively low historical levels in the UK, US and Europe, it is has evaluated a range of balance sheet management anticipated that the growth in demand for further borrowing by strategies to address the consequent impact on its liquidity risk customers may, in the medium term, continue to exceed position and has developed and implemented plans to contain customer deposits received, thus increasing net customer that within its normal prudent liquidity risk policy parameters.
lending further and increasing gradually over time the Groups Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 107 Sterling liquidity In measuring its non-sterling liquidity risk, due account is taken Over 47% of the Groups total assets are denominated in of the marketability within a short period of the wide range of sterling.
The FSA requires the Group, on a consolidated basis, debt securities held.
Appropriate adjustments are applied in to maintain daily a minimum ratio of 100% between: each case, dependent on various parameters, to determine the Groups ability to realise cash at short notice via the sale or 1. a stock of qualifying high quality liquid assets primarily UK repo of such marketable assets if required to meet and EU government securities, treasury bills, and cash held unexpected outflows.
in branches and The level of contingent risk from the potential drawing of 2. the sum of: undrawn or partially drawn commitments, back-up lines, 107 standby lines and other similar facilities is also actively sterling wholesale net outflows contractually due within 5 monitored and reflected in the measures of the Groups nonworking days offset up to a limit of 50%, by 85% of sterling liquidity risk.
Particular attention is given to the US$ sterling certificates of deposit held which mature beyond commercial paper market and the propensity of the Groups five working days : and corporate counterparties who are active in raising funds from that market to switch to utilising facilities offered by the Group 5% of retail deposits with a residual contractual in the event of either counterparty specific difficulties or a maturity of five working days or less.
significant widening of interest spreads generally in the commercial paper market.
The Group has exceeded the minimum ratio requirement throughout 2004.
The Group also provides liquidity back-up facilities to both its own conduits and certain other conduits which take funding The FSA also sets an absolute minimum level for the stock of from the US$ commercial paper market.
Limits sanctioned for qualifying liquid assets that the Group is required to maintain such facilities totalled less than 7,500 million at 31 December each day.
The Group has exceeded that minimum stock 2004.
The short-term contingent liquidity risk in providing such requirement at all times during 2004. back-up facilities is also mitigated by the spread of maturity dates of the commercial paper taken by the conduits.
The Groups operational processes are actively managed to ensure that both the minimum sterling liquidity ratio and the The Group has operated within its non-sterling liquidity policy minimum stock requirement are achieved or exceeded at all mismatch limits at all times during 2004 and operational times.
processes are actively managed to ensure that will continue to be the case going forward.
Liquidity in non-sterling currencies For non-sterling currencies, no specific regulatory liquidity Contingency plans are also maintained to enable the Group to requirement is set for the Group by the FSA.
However, the respond effectively to unforeseen market liquidity or major importance of managing prudently the liquidity risk in its nonpayment systems problems that may emerge from time to time.
sterling activities is recognised and the Group manages its non-sterling liquidity risk daily within net mismatch limits set for the 0-8 calendar day and 0-1 month periods as a percentage of the Groups total deposit liabilities.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 108 Operating and financial review continued Market risk VaR using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the The Group is exposed to market risk because of positions held market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged in its trading portfolios and its non-trading business including within one day.
The Group manages the market risk in its trading and treasury portfolios through its VaR using a 95% confidence level does not reflect the extent market risk management framework, which is based on valueof potential losses beyond that percentile.
at-risk VaR limits, together with, but not limited to, stress testing, scenario analysis, and position and sensitivity limits.
The Group largely computes the VaR of trading portfolios at Stress testing measures the impact of abnormal changes in the close of business and positions may change substantially market rates and prices on the fair value of the Groups trading during the course of the trading day.
Controls are in place to 108 portfolios.
GEMC approves the high-level VaR and stress limits limit the Groups intra-day exposure: such as the calculation of for the Group.
The Group market risk function, independent the VaR for selected portfolios.
These limitations and the nature from the Groups trading businesses, is responsible for setting of the VaR measure mean that the Group cannot guarantee and monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups that losses will not exceed the VaR amounts indicated.
Trading Value-at-risk The principal focus of the Groups trading activities is client VaR is a technique that produces estimates of the potential facilitation - providing products to the Groups client base at negative change in the market value of a portfolio over a competitive prices.
The Group also undertakes: market making specified time horizon at given confidence levels.
For internal quoting firm bid buy and offer sell prices with the intention risk management purposes, the Groups VaR assumes a time of profiting from the spread between the quotes: arbitrage horizon of one day and a confidence level of 95%.
The Group entering into offsetting positions in different but closely related uses historical simulation models in computing VaR.
This markets in order to profit from market imperfections: and approach, in common with many other VaR models, assumes proprietary activity taking positions in financial instruments as that risk factor changes observed in the past are a good principal in order to take advantage of anticipated market estimate of those likely to occur in the future and is, therefore, conditions.
The main risk factors are interest rates, credit limited by the relevance of the historical data used.
The spreads and foreign exchange.
Financial instruments held in Groups method, however, does not make any assumption the Groups trading portfolios include, but are not limited to, about the nature or type of underlying loss distribution.
debt securities, loans, deposits, securities sale and repurchase The Group typically uses the previous two years of market agreements and derivative financial instruments futures, data.
The Groups VaR should be interpreted in light of the forwards, swaps and options.
For a discussion of the Groups limitations of the methodology used.
These limitations include: accounting policies for, and information with respect to, its exposures to derivative financial instruments, see Accounting Historical data may not provide the best estimate of the joint policies and Note 39 on the accounts.
distribution of risk factor changes in the future and may fail to capture the risk of possible extreme adverse market movements which have not occurred in the historical window used in the calculations.
The VaR for the Groups trading portfolios segregated by type of market risk exposure is presented in the table below.
2004 2003 Average Period end Maximum Minimum Average Period end Maximum Minimum m m m m m m m m Trading Interest rate 11.5 11.2 16.5 6.9 9.4 7.4 14.5 5.7 Currency 1.1 1.2 2.7 0.5 1.3 0.8 2.5 0.7 Equity 0.6 0.2 2.0 0.2 0.5 0.4 1.4 0.2 Diversification 2.3 1.2 Total trading VaR 10.8 10.3 16.0 6.4 9.4 7.4 14.2 5.6 Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 109 Non-trading Structural interest rate risk is calculated in each division on the The principal market risks arising from the Group's non-trading basis of establishing the repricing behaviour of each asset activities are interest rate risk, currency risk and equity risk.
For many products, the actual interest rate Treasury activity and mismatches between the repricing of repricing characteristics differ from the contractual repricing.
assets and liabilities in its retail and corporate banking In most cases, the repricing maturity is determined by the operations account for most of the non-trading interest rate market interest rate that most closely fits the historical risk.
Non-trading currency risk derives from the Group's behaviour of the product interest rate.
For non-interest bearing investments in overseas subsidiaries, associates and branches.
current accounts, the repricing maturity is determined by the The Group's venture capital portfolio, investments held by its stability of the portfolio.
The repricing maturities used are general insurance business and its strategic equity investments approved by Group Treasury and divisional asset and liability 109 are the principal sources of non-trading equity price risk.
The committees at least annually.
Key conventions are reviewed Group's portfolios of non-trading financial instruments mainly annually by GALCO.
comprise loans including finance leases, debt securities, equity shares, deposits, certificates of deposits and other debt A static maturity gap report is produced as at the month-end securities issued, loan capital and derivatives.
To reflect their for each division, in each functional currency based on the distinct nature, the Group's long-term assurance assets and behaviouralised repricing for each product.
It is Group policy liabilities attributable to policyholders have been excluded from to include in the gap report, non-financial assets and liabilities, these market risk disclosures.
mainly tangible fixed assets and the Groups capital and reserves, spread over medium and longer term maturities.
This l Interest rate risk report also includes hedge transactions, principally derivatives.
Non-trading interest rate risk arises from the Groups treasury activities and retail and corporate banking businesses.
Any residual non-trading interest rate exposures are controlled by limiting repricing mismatches in the individual balance Treasury sheets.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the The Groups treasury activities include its money market medium to long term are measured and controlled using a business and the management of internal funds flow within the version of the same VaR methodology that is used for the Groups businesses.
Money market portfolios include cash Groups trading portfolios but without discount factors.
Net instruments principally debt securities, loans and deposits interest income exposures are measured and controlled in and related hedging derivatives.
VaR for the Groups treasury terms of sensitivity over time to movements in interest rates.
portfolios, which relates mainly to interest rate risk was 5.5 million at 31 December 2004 2003 8.1 million.
During the year the maximum VaR was 8.6 million 2003 11.0 million, the minimum 5.5 million 2003 5.6 million and the average 7.0 million 2003 8.3 million.
Retail and corporate banking Structural interest rate risk arises in these activities where assets and liabilities have different repricing dates.
It is the Groups policy to minimise the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates and where interest rate risk is retained to ensure that appropriate resources, measures and limits are applied.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 110 Operating and financial review continued Market risk continued acquisition.
VaR, like all interest rate risk measures, has its Non-trading continued limitations when applied to retail banking books and the Non-trading interest rate VaR management of Citizens interest rate exposures involves a Non-trading interest rate VaR for the Groups treasury and retail number of other interest rate risk measures and related limits.
and corporate banking activities was 72.4 million at 31 Two measures that are reported both to Citizens ALCO and December 2004 2003 78.1 million with the major exposure Board are: being to changes in longer term US dollar interest rates.
During the year, the maximum VaR was 89.7 million 2003 the sensitivity of their net interest income to a series of 78.1 million, the minimum 51.5 million 2003 29.9 million parallel movements in interest rates: and and the average 71.2 million 2003 51.7 million.
110 economic value of equity EVE limits.
Citizens was the main contributor to the Groups non-trading interest rate VaR.
It invests its surplus retail deposits in a These limits are set to parallel movements of -1% and -2%.
portfolio of highly rated and liquid investments principally The EVE methodology captures deposit re-pricing strategies mortgage-backed securities.
This balance sheet management and the embedded option risks that exists within both the approach is common for US retail banks where mortgages are investment portfolio of mortgage-backed securities and the originated and then sold to Federal agencies for funding consumer loan portfolio.
EVE is the present value of the cash through the capital markets.
The significant increase in VaR flows generated by the current balance sheet.
EVE sensitivity during 2003 and 2004 reflects substantial growth in retail to a 2% parallel movement upwards and downwards in US deposits in Citizens and asset growth in home equity loans and interest rates is shown below.
mortgage backed securities both organically and through Percent increase decrease in Citizens EVE 2% parallel upward 2% parallel downward movement in movement in US interest rates US interest rates no negative rates allowed 2004 % % Period end 9.2 4.4 Maximum 12.6 18.5 Minimum 5.2 4.4 Average 9.3 9.2 Percent increase decrease in Citizens EVE 2% parallel upward 2% parallel downward movement in movement in US interest rates US interest rates no negative rates allowed 2003 % % Period end 9.4 8.8 Maximum 11.4 14.2 Minimum 3.2 0.6 Average 4.4 6.4 At Group level, the other major structural interest rate risk Note 40 on the accounts includes, on pages 175 and 176, arises from a low interest rate environment, particularly in tables that summarise the Groups interest rate sensitivity gap sterling, sustained for a number of years.
In such a scenario for its non-trading book at 31 December 2004 and 31 December deposit pricing may reach effective floors below which it is not 2003.
The tables show the contractual re-pricing for each reasonable to reduce rates further whilst variable rate asset category of asset, liability and for off-balance sheet items and pricing continues to decline.
A sustained low rate scenario do not reflect the behaviouralised repricing used in the Groups would also generate progressively reduced income from the asset and liability management methodology and the nonmedium and long term hedging of non-interest bearing trading interest rate VaR presented above.
GALCO regularly reviews the impact of successive declines in rates to ensure that appropriate risk management strategies are employed.
This may involve execution of derivatives, product development and tactical pricing changes.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 111 l Currency risk branches, except where doing so would materially increase the The Group does not maintain material non-trading open sensitivity of either the Groups or the subsidiarys regulatory currency positions other than the structural foreign currency capital ratios to currency movements.
The policy requires translation exposures arising from its investments in overseas structural foreign exchange positions to be reviewed regularly subsidiaries and associated undertakings and their related by GALCO.
Gains or losses on foreign currency investments currency funding.
The Groups policy in relation to structural net of any gains or losses on related foreign currency funding positions is to match fund the structural foreign currency or hedges are recognised in the statement of total recognised exposure arising from net asset value, including goodwill, in gains and losses.
overseas subsidiaries, equity accounted investments and 111 The tables below set out the Groups structural foreign currency exposures.
Foreign currency Structural Net investments borrowings foreign in overseas hedging net currency operations investments exposures 2004 m m m US dollar 12,367 6,580 5,787 Euro 2,086 1,349 737 Swiss franc 398 392 6 Other non-sterling 116 112 4 14,967 8,433 6,534 2003 US dollar 5,329 5,198 131 Euro 1,422 826 596 Swiss franc 357 357 Other non-sterling 118 114 4 7,226 6,495 731 The US dollar open structural foreign currency exposure reflects the action taken to mitigate the effect of the acquisition of Charter One on the Groups capital ratios.
The structural foreign currency exposure in euros is principally due to Ulster Bank running an open structural foreign exchange position to minimise the sensitivity of its capital ratios to possible movements in the Euro exchange rate against Sterling.
l Equity risk VaR is not an appropriate risk measure for the Groups venture Non-trading equity risk arises principally from the Groups capital investments, which comprise a mix of quoted and strategic investments, its venture capital activities and its general unquoted investments, or its portfolio of strategic investments.
At 31 December 2004, equity shares held as investment securities had a book value of 2,440 million 2003 1,821 million and a valuation of 2,882 million 2003 2,238 million.
section 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Operating and financial review Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 096-112 7 3 05 11:10 am Page 112 Operating and financial review continued Insurance risk Enterprise risk The Group is exposed to insurance risk, either directly through In order to adequately identify and manage the full range of its businesses or through using insurance as a tool to reduce Enterprise risk, the Group has separately defined operational other risk exposures: and external risk: Insurance is a source of risk where the Group sells and Operational risk is defined as the risk arising from within the underwrites general insurance and life assurance.
The organisation from: essence of an insurance contract is the transfer of risk from the policyholder to the insurer for the payment of a sum on the People risks arising from an inappropriate level of staff, occurrence of an insured event.
inadequately skilled or managed people.
112 The management of insurance risk is overseen by a Pricing Process risk caused by inadequate or failed internal Committee that meets weekly to review underwriting factors, processes.
e. g. car groups, terms and conditions, claims experience.
This is supplemented by a range of system controls and processes Systems risks of inadequately designed or maintained including risk acceptance, with regular independent reviews of systems.
Primary focus is on high volume and relatively straightforward products for example Assets risk of damage, misappropriation or theft of the home and motor.
This facilitates the generation of Groups physical, logical and intangible assets.
comprehensive underwriting and claims data, which is used to monitor and accurately price the risks accepted.
This External risk is defined as the risk arising from outside of the attention to data analysis is reinforced by tight controls on organisation in three main areas: costs and claims handling procedures.
Business risks arising from product performance, Underwriting concentrations and catastrophe exposure are competitor activity, supplier unreliability or customer activity.
reviewed and, where necessary, mitigated by reinsurance which is spread across a number of reinsurers.
Reviews of Political risks caused by political unrest or uncertainty, the Groups general insurance reserves by external activity by public interest groups or extremists, and nonactuaries are conducted annually.
compliance with, or changes to, current legislation.
Investment strategy reflects the maturity of underwriting Environment risks arising due to demographic, macro liabilities and is governed through Investment Management economic, technical, cultural or environmental change.
Committees, with involvement and oversight from Group Treasury.
The Groups underwriting experience, the level of Enterprise risk also includes the potential or actual impact on retained risk and solvency are monitored at divisional and corporate reputation arising from any of the Groups activities.
Enterprise risk management is achieved through monitoring the The Insurance Sourcing Department is responsible for the Groups exposure to direct or indirect loss using a range of Group-wide purchase of insurance as a means of reducing policies, procedures, data, analytical tools and reporting other risk exposures.
As such, it is a key component of the techniques.
In particular, Group-wide risk management processes Groups risk management process and reports its activities ensure that Enterprise risk issues are quickly escalated and to the GEMC.
resolved, that the risks inherent in new products are fully evaluated, and that emerging external risks are actively monitored.
Operational risk exposures and loss events for each division are captured through monthly Risk and Control returns, which provide details on the change of risk exposures for each risk category in the light of improving deteriorating trends and the risk profile of each division.
Operating and financial review RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 113 Governance Contents 113 114 Board of directors and secretary 116 Report of the directors 120 Corporate governance 124 Directors remuneration report 134 Directors interests in shares 135 Statement of directors responsibilities section 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 114 Board of directors and secretary Sir George Mathewson Sir Fred Goodwin Sir Angus Grossart Lord Vallance of Tummel 114 Lawrence Fish Fred Watt Gordon Pell Archie Hunter Joe MacHale Charles Bud Koch Iain Robertson Eileen Mackay Jim Currie Bob Scott Colin Buchan Sir Steve Robson Peter Sutherland Miller McLean, Secretary Board of directors and secretary RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 115 Chairman trustee of the National Heritage Far East.
He has considerable of Case Western Reserve Directorate.
He is a nonSir George Mathewson age 64 Memorial Fund and a former international investment University.
He was the executive director of Cazenove CBE, DUniv, LLD, FRSE, FCIBS chairman of the trustees of the banking experience, as well as chairman, president and chief Group Plc, Xstrata Plc and C Chairman, N Chairman National Galleries of Scotland.
experience in very large risk executive officer of Charter Partnerships UK plc, and a Appointed to the Board in He has also served on the management in the equities One Financial, Inc. and its member of the Chairmans September 1987 and as boards of a wide range of business.
He was formerly a wholly owned subsidiary, Advisory Committee of KPMG.
Chairman in April 2001, Sir other companies in the UK, the member of the group Charter One Bank, N. A George Mathewson has a wide USA and Canada.
management board of UBS AG between 1973 and 2004.
Bob Scott age 63 background in finance, and head of equities of UBS CBE, FCIBS technology and management Executive directors Warburg.
He is vice-chairman Joe MacHale age 53 C, N, R Chairman and spent some of his career Sir Fred Goodwin age 46 of Standard Life Investments A Appointed to the Board in in the United States.
He DUniv, FCIBS, FCIB, LLD Limited and a director of Appointed to the Board in January 2001, Bob Scott is an became Group Chief Executive Group Chief Executive Merrill Lynch World Mining September 2004, Joe MacHale Australian national.
He is the 115 in January 1992 and in March C Trust Plc, Merrill Lynch Gold is currently a non-executive senior independent director.
2000, he was appointed Appointed to the Board in Limited, Royal Scottish National director and chairman of the Bob Scott has many years Executive Deputy Chairman.
August 1998, Sir Fred Goodwin Orchestra Society Limited, UBS audit committee of Morgan experience in the international He is a director of The Scottish is a Chartered Accountant.
He Securities Canada Inc. and Crucible plc and a trustee insurance business and played Investment Trust PLC and the was formerly chief executive World Mining Investment of MacMillan Cancer Relief.
a leading role in the Institute of International and director, Clydesdale Bank Company Limited.
He held a number of senior consolidation of the UK Finance, Inc.
He is also vicePLC and Yorkshire Bank PLC.
executive positions with J P insurance industry.
He is a president of the International He is chairman of The Princes Jim Currie age 63 Morgan between 1979 and former group chief executive of Monetary Conference, a Trust and a former president of D. Litt 2001 and was latterly chief CGNU plc and chairman of the member of the Advisory the Chartered Institute of R executive of J P Morgan board of the Association of Committee of Bridgepoint Bankers in Scotland.
Appointed to the Board in Europe, Middle East and British Insurers.
He is chairman Capital Limited and a member November 2001, Jim Currie is Africa Region.
of Yell Group plc, a nonof the Financial Reporting Lawrence Fish age 60 a highly experienced senior executive director of Swiss Council.
He was chief Chairman, President and Chief international civil servant who Eileen Mackay age 61 Reinsurance Company Zurich, executive of the Scottish Executive Officer of Citizens spent many years working in CB, FCIBS Jardine Lloyd Thompson Development Agency from Financial Group, Inc. Brussels and Washington.
He A, R Group plc and Focus Wickes 1981 to 1987 and is a former Appointed to the Board in was formerly director general Appointed to the Board in May Group Limited, and a trustee of president of the British January 1993, Lawrence Fish at the European Commission 1996, Eileen Mackay is a the Crimestoppers Trust.
He is with responsibility for the EUs former senior UK civil servant a career banker and was a environmental policy and who held posts in Scotland, Peter Sutherland age 58 Vice-chairmen director of the Federal Reserve director general for Customs HM Treasury and the Cabinet KCMG Lord Vallance of Tummel age 61 Bank of Boston.
He is a trustee and Excise and Indirect Office and was principal N FCIBS of The Brookings Institution Taxation.
He is also a director finance officer at The Scottish Appointed to the Board in C and a director of the Financial of British Nuclear Fuels PLC Office.
She is a director of January 2001, Peter Sutherland Appointed to the Board in Services Roundtable, Textron and Total Holdings UK Limited, Edinburgh Investment Trust is an Irish national.
He is a January 1993 and as ViceInc.
and numerous community an international adviser to plc, Scottish Financial former attorney general of Chairman in March 1994, Lord organisations in the USA.
Eversheds and a consultant to Enterprise and The British Ireland and from 1985 to 1989 Vallance is an experienced Butera & Andrews UK Limited.
She is also chairman of was the European businessman who is currently Gordon Pell age 54 the trustees of the David Hume commissioner responsible for chairman of the European FCIBS, FCIB Archie Hunter age 61 Institute and a trustee of the competition policy.
He is Services Forum and a director Chairman, Retail Banking and A Chairman Designate Carnegie Trust for the chairman of BP Plc and of the supervisory board of Wealth Management Appointed to the Board in Universities of Scotland.
Goldman Sachs International Siemens AG.
He is also a Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Archie and a director of Investor AB.
member of the European March 2000, Gordon Pell was Hunter is a Chartered Iain Robertson age 59 He was formerly chairman of Advisory Council of the formerly group director of Accountant.
He was Scottish CBE, FCIBS Allied Irish Bank and a director Rothschild Group and the Lloyds TSB UK Retail Banking senior partner of KPMG Chairman, Corporate Banking general of GATT and the World European Advisory Committee before joining National between 1992 and 1999 and and Financial Markets Trade Organisation.
He held a range Westminster Bank Plc as a President of The Institute of Appointed to the Board in of other positions including director in February 2000 and Chartered Accountants of January 1993, Iain Robertson Group Secretary and president of the CBI, chairman then becoming chief executive, Scotland in 1997 8.
He has is a Chartered Accountant.
General Counsel of British Telecommunications Retail Banking.
He is currently extensive professional He is chairman of British Miller McLean age 55 Plc and deputy chairman of the also a director of Race for experience in the UK and Empire Securities and General FCIBS Financial Reporting Council.
He Opportunity and Southampton North and South America.
He Trust plc, Cairn Capital Limited C was also a member of the University Development Trust.
is currently chairman of and BT Scotland, and a director Miller McLean was appointed board of directors of the Mobil Macfarlane Group plc, a of John Menzies plc.
Group Secretary in August Corporation.
Fred Watt age 44 director of Edinburgh US 1994.
He is a trustee of the section FCIBS Tracker Trust plc, Convenor of Sir Steve Robson age 61 Industry and Parliament Trust, Sir Angus Grossart age 67 C Court at the University of A a non-executive chairman of 02 CBE, DBA, LLD, FRSE, DL, Group Finance Director Strathclyde and a governor Appointed to the Board in July The Whitehall and Industry FCIBS, D. Litt Appointed to the Board in of the Beatson Cancer 2001, Sir Steve Robson is a Group and a director of The C September 2000, Fred Watt Research Institute.
former senior UK civil servant, Scottish Parliament and Appointed to the Board in is a Chartered Accountant.
who had responsibility for a Business Exchange.
September 1985 and as ViceHe was formerly finance Charles Bud Koch age 58 wide variety of Treasury Chairman in April 1996, Sir director of Wassall plc.
Appointed to the Board in matters.
His early career A member of the Audit Angus Grossart is an advocate September 2004, Bud Koch is included the post of Private Committee and Chartered Accountant with Non-executive directors an American national.
He has Secretary to the Chancellor of C member of the Chairmans a career in merchant banking.
Colin Buchan age 50 extensive professional the Exchequer and Advisory Group He is chairman and chief A Acting Chairman, R experience in the USA and is secondment to ICFC, now 3i.
N member of the Nominations executive of Noble Grossart Appointed to the Board in currently chairman of the He was also a Second Committee Limited.
His directorships of June 2002, Colin Buchan was board of the Federal Home Permanent Secretary of HM R member of the Remuneration public companies include educated in South Africa and Loan Bank of Cincinnati, Treasury, where he was Committee independent non-executive Scottish and Newcastle Plc spent the early part of his chairman of the board of John managing director of the director and Trinity Mirror Plc.
He is a career in South Africa and the Carroll University and a trustee Finance and Regulation Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Board of directors and secretary Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 116 Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in presenting their report together Going concern with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004.
The directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Profit and dividends For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern The profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the basis for preparing the accounts.
company for the year ended 31 December 2004 amounted to 4,256 million after preference dividends of 256 million Ordinary share capital compared with 2,254 million for the year ended 31 December During the year ended 31 December 2004, the ordinary share 2003, as set out in the consolidated profit and loss account on capital was increased by the following issues: page 143.
116 a 165 million ordinary shares placed at an issue price of An interim dividend of 16.8p per ordinary share was paid on 8 16.20 per share: October 2004 totalling 529 million 2003 431 million.
The directors now recommend that a final dividend of 41.2p per b 12.9 million ordinary shares allotted as a result of the ordinary share totalling 1,308 million 2003 1,059 million exercise of options under the companys executive, be paid on 3 June 2005 to members on the register at the sharesave and option 2000 schemes and a further 5.6 close of business on 11 March 2005.
If this recommendation is million ordinary shares allotted in respect of the exercise of approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting on 20 options under the NatWest executive and sharesave schemes April 2005, the retained profit for the year will amount to 2,419 which had been exchanged for options over the companys million 2003 764 million.
Subject to the approval of the shares following the acquisition of NatWest in 2000: dividend by shareholders at the annual general meeting, shareholders will be offered the choice of taking ordinary c 23.4 million ordinary shares allotted in lieu of cash shares in lieu of cash in respect of the final dividend.
dividends: and Activities and business review d 2.4 million ordinary shares allotted under the companys The company is a holding company owning the entire issued employee share ownership plan.
ordinary share capital of the Royal Bank, the principal direct operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital at comprises the company and all its subsidiary and associated 31 December 2004 are shown in Note 33. undertakings, including the Royal Bank and NatWest.
The Group is engaged principally in providing a comprehensive Preference share capital range of banking, insurance and other financial services.
Details of issues of preference shares during the year and the Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings of the authorised and issued share capital at 31 December 2004 are company are shown in Note 17.
A review of the business for shown in Note 33. the year to 31 December 2004, of recent events and of likely future developments is contained in the Operating and Trust preferred securities financial review.
Details of issues of trust preferred securities by subsidiaries of the Group are shown in Note 32. Business developments In January 2004, Citizens completed the acquisition of Thistle Subordinated liabilities Group Holdings, Co. the holding company of PennsylvaniaDetails of issues and redemptions of dated and undated loan based Roxborough Manayunk Bank.
capital and the subordinated liabilities at 31 December 2004 are shown in Notes 30 and 31.
In January 2004, Ulster Bank completed the acquisition of First Active plc.
In March 2004, Citizens completed the purchase of the credit card portfolio of Peoples Bank in the US.
In May 2004, NatWest completed the acquisition of Bibit, a leading international internet payment specialist.
In August 2004, Citizens completed the acquisition of Charter One Financial, Inc.
In September 2004, Citizens completed the acquisition of Lynk Systems Inc, a US based merchant acquiring business.
Report of the directors RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 117 Shareholdings As at 23 February 2005, the company had been notified of the following interests in its shares, in accordance with section 198 of the Companies Act 1985: Number of shares % held Number of shares % held 1 Ordinary shares: 5 2% cumulative preference shares: Cater Allen International 107,628,711 3.42 Commercial Union Assurance plc 91,429 22.86 Legal & General Group plc 98,761,695 3.40 Mr P. S. and Mrs J. Allen 86,999 21.75 Barclays PLC 93,254,320 3.14 Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited 46,255 11.56 The Capital Group of Companies, Inc 95,578,555 3.01 E M Behrens Charitable Trust 20,000 5.00 11% cumulative preference shares: Mrs Gina Wild 19,800 4.95 117 Guardian Royal Exchange Trustees of The Stephen Cockburn Assurance plc 129,830 25.97 Limited Pension Scheme 19,879 4.97 Windsor Life Assurance Miss Elizabeth Hill 16,124 4.03 Company Limited 51,510 10.30 Mr W. T. Hardison Jr. 13,532 3.38 Mr S. J. and Mrs J.
A. Cockburn 30,810 6.16 Ms C. L. Allen 13,200 3.30 Cleaning Tokens Limited 25,500 5.10 Ms J. C. Allen 12,750 3.18 Notification has been received on behalf of Mr A. W. R. Medlock and Mrs H. M. Medlock that they each have an interest in the 1 holding of 5 2% cumulative preference shares registered in the name of Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited noted above and that there are further holdings of 5,300 and 5,000 shares, respectively, of that class registered in each of their names.
Directors Employee proposition The names and brief biographical details of the directors are The Group recognises that the performance of its people is shown on page 115.
All directors, except: central to the successful delivery of its overall business strategy.
Accordingly, the Group focuses on maintaining a Archie Hunter and Joe MacHale, who were appointed to the compelling employee proposition that attracts, engages and Board on 1 September 2004, then retains the best available talent.
It is the breadth and depth of that employee talent which has cemented the Groups Bud Koch, who was appointed to the Board on 29 September standing as one of the world's leading financial institutions.
2004, Employee recruitment Norman McLuskie, who retired from the Board on 23 August To assist those within the Group responsible for recruitment, 2004, and online toolkits have been developed in conjunction with interview skills training, which equip them effectively to recruit the best Emilio Botin and Juan Inciarte, who resigned from the Board people for specific roles.
In addition, the Group encourages on 12 November 2004, movement within the organisation through the provision of an online appointments section which enables employees to apply served throughout the year and to the date of signing of the for new or different roles throughout the Group.
The profile of the Group led to over 10,000 applications being Sir Angus Grossart, Lord Vallance and Iain Robertson will retire received during its 2003 4 graduate campaign for some 200 at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Jim Currie, Sir Fred places.
The 2004 UK-based CBFM graduate intake, included Goodwin, Archie Hunter, Bud Koch, Joe MacHale and Sir Steve 37 per cent Continental European entrants with an additional section Robson will retire and offer themselves for election or re-election.
21 Continental European graduates and interns placed within Details of the service agreement for Sir Fred Goodwin are CBFM businesses in Frankfurt, Milan, Madrid and Paris.
No other director seeking election or applications were received online through the graduate website.
To complement this work a Group wide employee induction Directors interests event was conducted, which provided opportunities to network The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at with other new joiners and facilitated the exchange of ideas 31 December 2004 are shown on page 134.
None of the and information.
Within the last year the Group rose 23 places directors held an interest in the loan capital of the company or to rank 15th in the Times Top 100 Graduate employers table.
in the shares and loan capital of any of the subsidiary undertakings of the company, during the period from 1 January 2004 to 23 February 2005.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Report of the directors Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 118 Report of the directors continued Employee reward Headquarters at Gogarburn, Edinburgh which is due to open Under Total Reward the Group offers one of the most in Spring 2005.
The introduction of emerging leader workshops, comprehensive remuneration and benefits packages in the which included employee representatives from Citizens Bank, financial services sector, consisting of salary, bonus, share is further evidence of the Groups commitment to global schemes and competitive pension benefits.
recognise both market competitor movements and individual performance, with the largest increases being directed In addition, through Learning Awards, the Group provides towards high performers.
financial incentives to employees who take the banking qualifications offered by the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Through RBSelect, the Group's benefits choice programme, all Scotland and The Institute of Financial Services.
118 UK employees have the flexibility to customise their remuneration and tailor it to their particular lifestyle needs.
This Employee communication includes the opportunity to access subsidised childcare Employee engagement is encouraged through a transparent vouchers, discounted personal insurance products and process of communication and consultation.
This is achieved discounted shopping vouchers at a range of high street stores.
through a corporate Intranet, divisional magazines, team meetings led by line managers, briefings held by senior In addition, employees can participate in bonus incentive plans managers and regular dialogue with employees and employee specific to their business and share in the Group's success representatives.
through profit sharing, Buy As You Earn and Sharesave schemes, which align their interests with those of shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives UK employees participate in profit sharing that is directly regularly communicate directly with employees through related to the annual performance of the Group.
For the last six Question Time style programmes, some of which are years this has amounted to a further 10 percent of basic salary.
broadcast on the Groups internal television network.
This is used to convey information ranging from annual and interim The Group provides pension plan membership for most financial results to employee training and development issues.
employees in the UK and overseas.
The largest plan is The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund, which has over Employee consultation 80,000 employee members in the UK.
Through this and a The Group recognises that the key to becoming and number of additional pension arrangements in the UK and remaining an employer of choice is to ensure that employees overseas, the Group ensures that employees benefit from are able to maximise their contribution to the Group.
Each year competitive pension provision as part of their Total Reward.
an independent specialist company conducts a global The actuarial valuation of the main UK pension scheme as at Employee Opinion Survey on behalf of the Group to measure 31 March 2004 resulted in a deficit of 1,994 million.
To how employees feel about a number of important issues.
address this the Group made a special cash contribution of 750 million to the scheme in December 2004.
It also With an overall response rate of 84 percent some 20 percent increased its contribution rate to 21.5 percent of pensionable higher than the industry average the Group remains confident salaries with effect from April 2004. that employees value the survey as a method of expressing their views and as a way of initiating change throughout the Employee learning and development organisation.
Since the last Group-wide survey in January The Group actively encourages professional development and 2003, there were significant improvements in 14 out of 15 lifelong learning and is committed to creating and providing question categories.
The RBS Group performs very well against experiences outside the workplace that benefit the employee, ISRs Global Financial Services comparison companies, which the community they work in and the Group.
The Prince's Trust includes many of the Groups key competitors in the UK and initiative, for example, enables employees to participate in abroad.
The Group outperforms this comparison group in all volunteer and mentoring programmes and contributes to the but one category.
Group's Community Investment and Corporate Responsibility aims.
Diversity The Group acknowledges the importance of developing and The Group continues to participate in a range of programmes maintaining strong leadership capability across the and activities designed to promote diversity and effective organisation, proactively developing future leaders and people management.
Reflecting its commitment to a business creating succession plans for senior and executive model based on meritocracy and inclusiveness, the Group management roles.
A core component of this ongoing activity encourages employees to develop their full potential, is the Executive Leadership Programme developed in irrespective of their race, gender, marital status, age, disability, conjunction with the Harvard Business School and the religious belief, political opinion or sexual orientation.
establishment of an on-site business school at the Group Report of the directors RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 119 The Group is also committed to ensuring that all prospective Policy and practice on payment of creditors applicants for employment are treated fairly and equitably The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial throughout the recruitment process.
Our comprehensive relationship with its suppliers.
Consequently, it is the Groups resourcing standards cover the attraction and retention of policy to negotiate and agree terms and conditions with its individuals with disabilities.
Reasonable adjustments are suppliers, which includes the giving of an undertaking to pay provided to support the applicant in the recruitment process suppliers within 30 days of receipt of a correctly prepared where these are required.
The Group provides reasonable invoice submitted in accordance with the terms of the contract workplace adjustments for new entrants into the Group and or such other payment period as may be agreed.
also for existing employees who become disabled during their employment.
At 31 December 2004, the Groups trade creditors represented 119 27 days 2003 27 days of amounts invoiced by suppliers.
Health, safety, well being and security The company does not have any trade creditors.
The health, safety, well being and security of employees and customers are of vital concern to the Group, which constantly Auditors reviews its position on policies in these areas to reflect current The auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated their legislation and best practice.
Furthermore, the Group focuses willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint on ensuring that those policies are closely linked to the Deloitte & Touche LLP as the companys auditor will be operational needs of the business.
proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Corporate responsibility Business excellence requires that the Group meets changing By order of the Board.
customer, shareholder, investor, employee and supplier expectations.
The Group believes that meeting high standards of environmental, social and ethical responsibility is key to the Miller McLean way it does business.
Secretary 23 February 2005 The Board regularly considers corporate responsibility issues and receives a formal report on these matters twice each year.
Further details of the Groups corporate responsibility policies The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc will be contained in the 2004 Corporate Responsibility Report.
is registered in Scotland No.
Code of ethics The Group has adopted a code of ethics that is applicable to all of the Groups employees and a copy is available upon request.
Charitable contributions In 2004 the contribution to the Groups Community Investment programmes increased to 45.8 million 2003 40.1 million.
The total amount given for charitable purposes by the company and its subsidiary undertakings during the year ended 31 December 2004 was 20.1 million 2003 14.7 million.
Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of Corporate governance.
Details are given on pages 120 to 123. section Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
02 At the annual general meeting in 2002 shareholders gave authority for the company and certain of its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 675,000 as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000, for a period of four years.
These authorities have not been used and it is not proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Report of the directors Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 120 Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate contacts required.
The Board Committees contain directors governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its with a variety of relevant skills and experience so that no activities.
undue reliance is placed on any one individual.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004, the company The non-executive directors combine broad business and has complied with all of the provisions set out in the revised commercial experience with independent and objective Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in judgement.
The balance between non-executive and executive July 2003 the Code except in relation to the authority directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective reserved to the Board to make the final determination of the leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity remuneration of the executive directors, which is explained across the companys business activities.
The names and 120 below in the paragraph headed Remuneration Committee.
biographies of all Board members are set out on page 115.
The company has also complied with the Smith Guidance on The composition of the Board is subject to continuing review Audit Committees in all material respects.
and the provisions of the Code will be taken into account in respect of the balance of the Board.
The Code requires the Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, enhanced standards Board to determine whether its non-executive members are of corporate governance and business and financial disclosure independent.
apply to companies, including the company, with securities registered in the US.
The Group complies with all sections of Following the annual general meeting in April 2005 when Sir the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 currently applicable.
Angus Grossart, Lord Vallance and Iain Robertson will stand down from the Board, the Board will comprise eight Board of directors independent and five non-independent directors including The Board is the principal decision making forum for the company.
executive directors, in addition to the Chairman.
Bob Scott It has overall responsibility for leading and controlling the company has been nominated as the senior independent director.
and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
The Board approves Group strategy and monitors The Board considers that all non-executive directors are performance.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of independent for the purposes of the Code, with the following matters detailing key aspects of the companys affairs reserved exceptions: to it for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually.
Sir Angus Grossart and Lord Vallance, who have served on The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are the Board for 19 and 12 years, respectively.
distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective Iain Robertson who was formerly an executive director engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive of the company.
The Group Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority Bud Koch who was formerly Chairman, President and Chief delegated from the Board.
Responsibility for the development Executive Officer of Charter One Financial, Inc. which was of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated acquired by Citizens Financial Group, Inc. to the Group Chief Executive and other executive directors.
As a result, in terms of the Code, the Board currently comprises All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance eight independent and eight non-independent directors and financial and risk management of the company and including executive directors, in addition to the Chairman.
meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion.
Re-election of directors The Board met 10 times during 2004 and was supplied with At each annual general meeting, one third of the directors comprehensive papers in advance of each Board meeting retire and offer themselves for re-election and each director covering the Groups principal business activities.
Members of must stand for re-election at least once every three years.
Any the executive management attend and make regular non-executive directors who have served for more than nine presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.
years will also stand for annual re-election and the Board may consider their independence at that time.
The proposed reBoard balance and independence election of directors is subject to prior review by the Board.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive directors and 12 non-executive directors.
The Board functions The names of directors standing for re-election at the 2005 effectively and efficiently and is considered to be of an annual general meeting are contained on page 117 and further appropriate size in view of the scale of the company and the information will be given in the Chairmans letter to shareholders diversity of its businesses.
The directors provide the Group with in relation to the companys annual general meeting.
the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and networks of Corporate governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 121 Information, induction and professional development The Board is satisfied that the Audit Committee members have All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on recent and relevant financial experience.
Although the Board all relevant matters.
Any requests for further information or has determined that each member of the Audit Committee is clarification are dealt with or co-ordinated by the Group an Audit Committee Financial Expert as defined in the SEC Secretary.
rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the members of the Audit Committee are selected with a view to The Group Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, the expertise and experience of the Audit Committee as a through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
All directors whole, and the Audit Committee reports to the Board as a have access to the advice and services of the Group single entity.
The designation of a director or directors as an Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Audit Committee Financial Expert does not impose on any 121 Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and such director any duties, obligations or liability that are greater regulations are complied with.
In addition, all directors are than the duties, obligations and liability imposed on such able, if necessary, to obtain independent professional advice director as a member of the Audit Committee and Board in the at the companys expense.
Nor does the designation of a director as an Audit Committee Financial Expert affect the Each new director receives a formal induction, including visits duties, obligations or liability of any other member of the Board.
to all the Groups major businesses and meetings with senior management.
The induction is tailored to the directors specific The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in requirements.
Existing directors undertake such professional discharging its responsibilities and making all relevant development as they consider necessary in assisting them to disclosures in relation to the financial affairs of the Group, the carry out their duties as directors.
arrangements for accounting and financial reporting and regulatory compliance, the standards of internal control, and Performance evaluation arrangements for internal audit, risk management and the The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its external auditors.
Committees was undertaken in the autumn of 2004.
The evaluation, which focused particularly on the Board Committees, The Audit Committee has a policy on the engagement of the was conducted by the Group Secretary using a detailed external auditors to supply audit and non-audit services, which questionnaire and meetings with each of the Board Committee takes into account relevant legislation regarding the provision members and attendees to discuss the performance of the of such services by an external audit firm.
Details of the audit Committees.
and non-audit services carried out by the external auditors are set out in Note 4 to the Groups accounts.
This policy is In addition, each director discussed his or her own performance reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
In addition, the with the Chairman and the senior independent director met Audit Committee reviews and monitors the independence and individually with the executive directors and with the nonobjectivity of the external auditors when it approves non-audit executive directors as a group without the Chairman present, work to be carried out by them, taking into consideration to consider the Chairmans performance.
The report on the relevant legislation and ethical guidance.
A detailed submission Board evaluation, which was designed to assist the Board in is also made by management to the Audit Committee prior to further improving its performance, was considered and certain appointments.
The submission contains, in particular, discussed by the Board as a whole and specific actions are details as to why the proposed appointment would not breach currently being implemented.
A performance evaluation is auditor independence.
conducted on an annual basis.
The Audit Committee also undertakes an annual evaluation Board Committees to assess the independence and objectivity of the external In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking Board has established a number of Board Committees into consideration relevant professional and regulatory with particular responsibilities.
The results of the evaluation were reported section and membership are reviewed on a regular basis.
and biographies of all Board Committee members are set out 02 on page 115.
The Audit Committee will make recommendations to the Board in relation to the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Audit Committee external auditors and the re-appointment by the shareholders All members of the Audit Committee are independent nonat the annual general meeting in April 2005 of Deloitte & executive directors.
The Audit Committee has five meetings Touche LLP as the external auditors.
each year, two of which are held immediately prior to submission of the interim and year-end financial statements to In 2004, the Audit Committee commissioned KPMG to conduct the Group Board.
The Audit Committee meets executive an external review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit.
directors and management and the external and internal It is intended that there will be an external review of Group auditors privately.
Internal Audit every three years with internal reviews continuing in the intervening years.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 122 Corporate governance continued Remuneration Committee Meetings All members of the Remuneration Committee are independent The number of meetings of the Board and the Audit, non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee has Remuneration and Nominations Committees and individual three meetings each year.
attendance by members is shown below.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for assisting the Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Total number of meetings Board in discharging its responsibilities and making all relevant in 2004 10 5 4 1 disclosures in relation to the formulation and review of the Number of meetings Groups executive remuneration policy.
The Remuneration attended in 2004 Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the 122 Sir George Mathewson 10 1 remuneration arrangements for its executive directors and the Chairman.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained Lord Vallance 10 on pages 124 to 133.
Sir Angus Grossart 9 Responsibility for determining the remuneration of executive Sir Fred Goodwin 10 directors has not been delegated to the Remuneration Mr Botin 3 Committee, and in that sense the provisions of the Code have not been complied with.
The Board as a whole reserves the Mr Buchan 10 5 4 authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of Dr Currie 10 4 directors as it considers that this two stage process allows Mr Fish 7 greater consideration and evaluation and is consistent with the unitary nature of the Board.
No director is involved in decisions Mr Hunter 4 1 regarding his or her own remuneration.
Mr Inciarte 5 Nominations Committee Mr Koch 4 The Nominations Committee comprises independent nonMr MacHale 4 1 executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board.
The Nomination Committee meets as required.
Miss Mackay 10 5 4 Mr McLuskie 6 The Nominations Committee is responsible for assisting the Mr Pell 9 Board in the formal selection and appointment of directors.
It considers potential candidates and recommends appointments Mr Robertson 10 of new directors to the Board.
The appointments are based on Sir Steve Robson 10 4 - - merit and against objective criteria including the time available, and commitment which will be required of, the potential director.
Mr Scott 10 4 1 Mr Sutherland 10 1 In addition, the Nominations Committee considers succession planning for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and nonMr Watt 10 executive directors.
The Nominations Committee takes into account the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and networks Mr Hunter and Mr MacHale were appointed to the Board and of contacts which will be needed on the Board in the future.
the Audit Committee on 1 September 2004.
Mr Koch was The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and non-executive directors appointed to the Board on 29 September 2004. meet to consider executive succession planning.
No director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own succession.
Mr McLuskie retired from the Board on 23 August 2004.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors Mr Botin and Mr Inciarte resigned from the Board on 12 and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as nonNovember 2004, the effective date of the acquisition of Abbey executive directors of the company.
National plc by Banco Santander Central Hispano SA.
They did not attend any Board meetings from June 2004 during the relevant public offer period.
Corporate governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 123 Relations with shareholders The Board has established a process for the identification, The company communicates with shareholders through the evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by annual report and by providing information in advance of the the Group, which operated throughout the year ended 31 annual general meeting.
Individual shareholders can raise December 2004 and to 23 February 2005, the date the matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This process is Group at any time throughout the year.
Shareholders are given regularly reviewed by the Board and meets the requirements of the opportunity to ask questions at the annual general meeting the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the or submit written questions in advance.
The chairmen of the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are Accountants in England and Wales in 1999. available to answer questions at the annual general meeting.
123 The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is Communication with the companys largest institutional reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee.
shareholders is undertaken as part of the companys investor Executive management committees or boards of directors in relations programme.
During the year, the directors received each of the Groups businesses receive quarterly reports on copies of the analysts reports and a monthly report from the significant risks facing their business and how they are being Groups investor relations team which includes an analysis controlled.
These reports are combined and submitted to the of share price movements, the Groups performance against Board as quarterly risk and control assessments.
Additional the sector, and key broker comments.
In addition, information details of the Groups approach to risk management are given on major investor relations activities and changes to external in the Risk management section of the Operating and ratings are provided.
In 2004, the senior independent director financial review on pages 96 to 112.
The Audit Committee also attended the analysts presentation at the interim results to receives regular reports from Group Risk Management and enhance his understanding of the issues and concerns of Group Internal Audit.
In addition, the Groups independent the major shareholders and would be available to shareholders auditors present to the Audit Committee reports that include if concerns could not be addressed through the normal details of any significant internal control matters which they channels.
The mechanisms used to ensure that directors have identified.
The system of internal controls of the develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders authorised institutions and other regulated entities in the Group are considered as part of the annual Board performance are also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of the Groups regulatory oversight are given in the Supervision and Regulation section.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and, if appropriate, the senior independent director Disclosure controls and procedures communicate shareholder views to the Board as a whole.
As required by US regulations, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director have evaluated the effectiveness of The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and the companys disclosure controls and procedures as defined Nominations Committees and the standard terms and conditions in the rules under the US Securities Exchange Act.
This of the appointment of non-executive directors are available on evaluation has been considered and approved by the Board the Groups website www.
com and copies are available which has authorised the Group Chief Executive and the Group on request.
Finance Director to certify that as at 31 December 2004, the companys disclosure controls and procedures were adequate Internal control and effective and designed to ensure that material information The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries of internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and would be made known to them by others within those entities.
efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and Changes in internal controls regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard There was no change in the companys internal control over to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by section crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
02 failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Corporate governance Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 124 Directors remuneration report The Remuneration Committee The non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually by the The following directors, all of whom are independent nonBoard, on the recommendation of the Chairman.
The level of executive directors, were members of the Remuneration remuneration reflects the responsibility and time commitment of Committee during the year ended 31 December 2004. directors and the level of fees paid to non-executive directors of comparable major UK companies.
Non-executive directors Bob Scott Chairman do not participate in any incentive or performance plan.
Colin Buchan Jim Currie The Remuneration Committee approves the remuneration Eileen Mackay arrangements of senior executives below Board level who are members of the Group Executive Management Committee, 124 During the accounting period, the Remuneration Committee on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive, and confirmed the appointments of Ernst & Young and Mercer reviews all long-term incentive arrangements which are Human Resource Consulting to provide advice on matters operated by the Group.
relating to directors remuneration in the UK and US respectively.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee Components of executive remuneration has taken account of the views of the Chairman and the UK based directors Group Chief Executive on performance assessment of the Salary executive directors.
Salaries are reviewed annually as part of total remuneration, having regard to remuneration packages received by executives In addition to advising the Remuneration Committee, Ernst & of comparable companies.
The Remuneration Committee uses Young provided professional services in the ordinary course of a range of survey data from remuneration consultants and business including actuarial and corporate recovery advice.
reaches individual salary decisions taking account of the Mercer Human Resource Consulting provided advice and remuneration environment and the performance and support in connection with a range of benefits, pension responsibilities of the individual director.
Benefits Remuneration policy UK-based executive directors are eligible to participate in The The executive remuneration policy is kept under review by the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund the RBS Fund.
Remuneration Committee and is set out below.
There have The RBS Fund is a non-contributory defined benefit fund which been no material changes to the policy which was approved by provides pensions and other benefits within Inland Revenue shareholders at the companys annual general meeting in 2004. limits.
Certain directors receive additional pension and life assurance benefits in excess of Inland Revenue limits.
Details The objective of the executive remuneration policy is to of pension arrangements of directors are shown on page 133. provide, in the context of the companys business strategy, remuneration in form and amount which will attract, motivate Executives directors are eligible to receive a choice of various and retain high calibre executives.
In order to achieve this employee benefits or a cash equivalent, on a similar basis to objective, the policy is framed around the following core other employees.
In addition, like other employees, executive principles: directors are eligible also to participate in Sharesave, Buy As You Earn and the Group profit sharing scheme, which currently Total rewards will be set at levels that are competitive within pays up to 10 per cent of salaries, depending on the Groups the relevant market, taking each executive directors performance.
These schemes are not subject to performance remuneration package as a whole.
conditions since they are operated on an all-employee basis.
Executive directors also receive death in service benefits.
Total potential rewards will be earned through achievement of demanding performance targets based on measures consistent with shareholder interests over the short, medium and longer-term.
Remuneration arrangements will strike an appropriate balance between fixed and performance related rewards.
Performance related elements will comprise the major part of executive remuneration packages.
Incentive plans and performance metrics will be structured to be robust through the business cycle.
Remuneration arrangements will be designed to support the companys business strategy, to promote appropriate teamwork and to conform to best practice standards.
Directors remuneration report RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 125 Short-term annual incentives For awards made since 2002, the companies in the comparator These typically focus from year to year on the delivery of a group are Abbey National plc: Aviva plc: Barclays PLC: combination of appropriate Group and individual financial and Citigroup: HBOS plc: HSBC Holdings plc: Legal & General operational targets approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Group plc: Lloyds TSB Group plc: Prudential plc and Standard Individual UK-based executive directors normally have a Chartered PLC.
Following the takeover of Abbey National plc maximum annual bonus potential of one times salary one by Banco Santander Central Hispano SA BSCH in November and a half times in the case of the Group Chief Executive, 2004, Abbey National plc has been replaced by BSCH in the although for exceptional performance, as measured by the comparator group for awards made from 2003 onwards.
achievement of significant objectives, bonuses of up to two times salary may be awarded.
Options 125 The executive share option scheme was approved by Long-term incentives shareholders in January 1999.
Each executive director is The company provides long-term incentives in the form of share eligible for the annual grant of an option, typically of one and a options and share or share equivalent awards.
Their objective is quarter times salary with an upper maximum in appropriate to encourage the creation of value over the long-term and to circumstances of two and a half times salary, over shares at align the rewards of the executive directors with the returns to the market value at date of grant.
Under the terms of his shareholders.
Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the appointment, the Chairman is also eligible to participate in the company and a culture of voluntary shareholding has been executive share option scheme.
No payment is made by the fostered, which has resulted in a number of executive directors executive director on the grant of an option award.
building up substantial shareholdings over time.
All executive share options are subject to a performance Medium-term performance plan target, which is currently that the options are exercisable only The medium-term performance plan was approved by if, over a three year period, the growth in the companys EPS shareholders in April 2001.
Each executive director is eligible has exceeded the growth in the RPI plus nine per cent.
This for an annual award under the plan in the form of share or EPS performance target, which is consistent with market share equivalent awards.
Whilst the rules of the plan allow practice, measures underlying financial performance and grants of awards of up to one and a half times earnings, the represents a long-term test of performance.
For awards made Remuneration Committee has adopted a policy of granting in 2004 onwards, there is no re-testing of the performance awards based on a multiple of salary.
The condition is reviewed annually.
All previous made at one times salary with one and a half times salary awards have vested without re-testing.
being granted in the case of the Group Chief Executive.
No changes will be made to this policy without prior consultation with shareholders.
The plan is highly geared to the companys relative performance.
All awards under the plan are subject to threeyear performance targets.
First, the annual growth in the companys earnings per share EPS must exceed the annualised growth of the Retail Prices Index RPI plus three per cent.
If this condition is satisfied, the companys total shareholder return TSR is compared with the TSR of a comparator group of certain companies in the financial services sector, referred to below.
Awards under the plan will not vest if the companys TSR is below the median of the comparator group.
Achievement of the EPS target and median TSR performance against the comparator companies will result section in vesting of 25 per cent of the award, increasing on a sliding scale up to 100 per cent at upper quartile performance and up 02 to 200 per cent at upper decile performance.
Vesting at 200 per cent can only occur if the company achieves a TSR ranking at 1st position in the comparator group and exceeds the TSR of the 2nd placed comparator company by at least 34%.
This combination of EPS and TSR performance targets measures the underlying financial performance of the company and ensures a direct link between the value delivered to shareholders and the levels of incentive payment.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors remuneration report Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 126 Directors remuneration report continued US based director Lawrence Fish Long term incentives will consist of the following components: Lawrence Fish's total remuneration package was reviewed in 2004 by the Remuneration Committee as a result of the The two grants made under the Citizens Phantom 2000 Plan acquisition of Charter One and his changing RBS vested and will vest on 1 January 2005 and 1 January 2006, responsibilities in North America.
In the review the respectively.
The value of units at the time of vesting is Remuneration Committee confirmed its overall policy in relation performance-linked and is based on the cumulative to his package is to ensure competitiveness with the market economic profit generated by Citizens, the trend in levels of total remuneration for chairmen and executives of US economic profit and on the external market trends in the US banks of similar size and complexity.
banking sector, using price earnings ratios of comparator US banks.
This measure was chosen to establish a clear link 126 As a result of that review, proposals will be submitted at the between the potential incentive and the performance of annual general meeting to introduce a cash long term incentive Citizens.
No other grants will be made under this plan.
plan, which will replace the Citizens Phantom 2000 Plan in which Mr Fish participated from 2001.
Subject to agreement to A grant under the RBS medium-term performance plan these proposals, the total remuneration policy for him will be as within the levels, and on the same terms, available to UK follows: based executives.
Base salary will be set having regard to the levels of base A grant under the executive share option scheme within the salary in other US banks and the appropriate balance of fixed levels, and on the same terms, available to UK based and variable remuneration for US based executives of UK executives.
listed companies operating within the corporate governance frameworks of the UK.
In light of this policy, and having A grant under the new Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan.
reviewed the relevant market data, Mr Fishs base salary was Performance will be measured on a combination of Growth increased to $1.5 million with effect from 1 October 2004. in Profit before Tax and Relative Return on Equity based on a comparison of Citizens with comparator US banks.
The Benefits Mr Fish accrues pension benefits under a number of targets for this plan will be set on an annual basis over the arrangements in the US.
Details are provided on page 133.
In three year term of the grant.
addition he is entitled to receive other benefits on a similar basis to other Citizens employees.
In the event that the proposed new Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan is not approved, Mr Fish will participate in existing Short term performance rewards will take the form of an approved short and long term cash plans already operating annual incentive plan which rewards the achievement of in Citizens.
Group, business unit and individual financial and non-financial targets.
The normal maximum annual bonus potential will be The existing approved Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan is a two times salary, although additional amounts to a maximum of cash compensation plan designed to reward participants for two times salary may be awarded, at the discretion of the Board, achieving long-term financial results.
A separate three-year for exceptional performance as measured by the achievement cycle commences each year.
The maximum award payable to of significant objectives.
Mr Fish annually is 105 per cent of his average salary over the previous three-year period.
Each three-year performance target is based on the annual pre-tax income target for Citizens.
For the maximum award to be paid in respect of each three-year target, Citizens must achieve 130 per cent of the three-year aggregate budgeted profit figure.
This performance target is measured by taking the pre-tax income for Citizens, which is a simple and transparent method of measuring a profit figure target.
Directors remuneration report RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 127 The performance graph The undernoted performance graph illustrates the performance of the company over the past five years in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The total shareholder return for the company and the FTSE 100 have been rebased to 100 for 1999.
Total shareholder return 127 Service contracts The companys policy in relation to the duration of contracts All new service contracts for executive directors will be subject with directors is that executive directors contracts generally to approval by the Remuneration Committee.
It will be the norm continue until termination by either party, subject to the required to include in those contracts standard clauses covering the notice, or until retirement date.
The notice period under the performance review process, the companys normal disciplinary service contracts of executive directors will not normally exceed procedure, and terms for dismissal in the event of failure to 12 months.
However, the notice period may exceed 12 months perform or in situations involving actions in breach of the if existing service contracts have notice periods greater than Groups policies.
12 months and the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate not to reduce the existing notice period.
In relation Any compensation payment made in connection with the to newly recruited executive directors, subject to the prior departure of an executive director will be subject to approval approval of the Remuneration Committee, the notice period by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to the terms of from the employing company required to terminate the contract the service contract and the reasons for termination.
will not normally exceed 12 months unless there is a clear case for this.
Where a longer period of notice is initially approved on appointment, it will normally be structured such that it will automatically reduce to 12 months in due course.
section 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors remuneration report Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 128 Directors remuneration report continued Information regarding executive directors service contracts is summarised in the table and notes below.
Date of current contract Notice period Notice period Name Employing company Normal retirement age from company from executive Sir Fred Goodwin 1 August 1998 60 12 months 6 months The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Mr McLuskie 9 October 1997 60 3 months 3 months The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Mr Pell 22 May 2002 60 12 months 6 months National Westminster Bank Plc 128 Mr Watt 28 September 2000 60 12 months 6 months The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Mr Fish 18 February 2004 65 12 months 12 months Citizens Financial Group, Inc. retired 23 August 2004 Except as noted below, in the event of severance of contract The Remuneration Committee has reviewed, with the benefit where any contractual notice period is not worked, the of legal advice, Mr Pells contract, and the circumstances employing company may pay a sum to the executive in lieu of under which it was entered into.
As the exceptional this period of notice.
Any such payment would, at maximum, severance provisions would apply only if NatWest were to comprise base salary and a cash value in respect of fixed breach the contract by terminating it without notice, the benefits including pension plan contributions.
In the event of Committee considers that the contracts terms, entered into situations involving breach of the employing companys in good faith by the NatWest board and Mr Pell, should be policies resulting in dismissal, reduced or no payments may be honoured.
Depending on the circumstances of the termination of employment, the executive may be entitled, or If Lawrence Fish's contract is terminated without cause, or if the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to he terminates the contract for good reason as defined in the allow, the executive to exercise outstanding awards under longcontract, he is entitled to a lump sum payment to term incentive arrangements.
Exceptions to these severance compensate him for the loss of 12 months salary plus arrangements are as follows: annual bonus.
Mr Fish would also be entitled to receive for this period health, life insurance and long term disability Gordon Pell was recruited to the board of NatWest from coverage and any other benefits determined in accordance Lloyds Bank plc at a time when NatWest was subject to a with the plans, policies and practices of Citizens at the time contested takeover.
His recruitment to take management of termination.
The Remuneration Committee have been responsibility for NatWests retail operations was seen by the advised that these termination provisions are less generous NatWest board at the time as an essential step to strengthen than the current market practice in the US.
The terms of his service contract, which reflected these circumstances, were entered into after consultation with the Takeover Panel as required by The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
If Mr Pells contract is terminated by NatWest without notice, he is entitled to a compensation payment of base salary relating to the contractual 12 months notice period, his annual bonus to the date of termination, a payment equal to his average annual bonus over the previous three years, payment in lieu of contractual benefits and allowances including pension and extra payments by way of funded or unfunded pension and death in service contributions relating to the notice period.
Directors remuneration report RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 129 Chairman and non-executive directors The original date of appointment as a director of the company and the scheduled date for the next re-election is as follows: Date first appointed Next re-election Sir George Mathewson 1 September 1987 2007 Lord Vallance 14 January 1993 Retires 20 April 2005 Sir Angus Grossart 30 September 1985 Retires 20 April 2005 Mr Buchan 1 June 2002 2006 Dr Currie 28 November 2001 20 April 2005 Mr Hunter 1 September 2004 20 April 2005 129 Mr Koch 29 September 2004 20 April 2005 Mr MacHale 1 September 2004 20 April 2005 Miss Mackay 16 May 1996 2006 Mr Robertson 14 January 1993 Retires 20 April 2005 Sir Steve Robson 25 July 2001 20 April 2005 Mr Scott 31 January 2001 2006 Mr Sutherland 31 January 2001 2006 Other than Iain Robertson, the non-executive directors do not have service contracts or notice periods although they have letters of engagement reflecting their responsibilities and commitments.
Under the companys articles of association, all directors must retire by rotation and seek re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
No compensation would be paid to the Chairman or to any non-executive director in the event of early termination.
Iain Robertson entered into a contract to reflect his role as a non-executive director, which took effect on 25 June 2003.
Under this contract, his appointment will terminate at the companys annual general meeting on 20 April 2005, unless terminated earlier by either party on one months written notice.
The tables and explanatory notes on pages 130 to 133 report the remuneration of each director for the year ended 31 December 2004 and have been audited by the companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP.
section 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors remuneration report Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 130 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration Salary Performance 2004 2003 fees bonus Benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Sir George Mathewson 542 39 581 538 Executive directors Sir Fred Goodwin 990 1,500 32 2,522 1,916 Mr Fish 637 1,638 30 2,305 1,859 130 Mr McLuskie retired 23 August 2004 341 1 342 1,048 Mr Pell 670 721 12 1,403 1,307 Mr Watt 605 660 3 1,268 1,110 includes 10% profit sharing Basic salary is the only component of the remuneration package which is pensionable.
Board 2004 2003 Board fees committee fees Total Total Non-executive directors 000 000 000 000 Vice-chairmen Lord Vallance of Tummel 100 100 100 Sir Angus Grossart 100 100 100 Mr Botin resigned 12 November 2004 46 46 44 Mr Buchan 50 50 100 56 Dr Currie 50 10 60 54 Mr Hunter appointed 1 September 2004 17 5 22 Mr Inciarte resigned 12 November 2004 46 46 44 Mr Koch appointed 29 September 2004 12 12 Mr MacHale appointed 1 September 2004 17 5 22 Miss Mackay 50 25 75 64 Mr Robertson 100 100 217 Sir Steve Robson 50 15 65 54 Mr Scott 50 23 73 67 Mr Sutherland 50 3 53 44 includes 167,000 in respect of Mr Robertsons service as an executive director.
From 25 June 2003, Mr Robertson has carried out his role as Chairman, Corporate Banking and Financial Markets and as a director in a non-executive capacity.
He also provides general advice on business issues to the Board and Board Committees as appropriate, including attendance as required at the Group Audit Committee and the Advances Committee.
For these services Mr Robertson receives a fee of 100,000 per annum.
In addition to his role as a non-executive director, Mr Koch has an agreement with Citizens Financial Group, Inc. to provide consulting services for a period of three years following the acquisition by Citizens of Charter One Financial, Inc. For these services Mr Koch receives $402,500 per annum.
No director received any expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax or compensation for loss of office termination payment.
The non-executive directors did not receive any bonus payments or benefits.
Mr McLuskie retired from the Group Board on 23 August 2004.
The figures quoted above are as at cessation.
Subsequently, Mr McLuskie exercised his Sharesave 2001 grant of 335 options, and has since been granted a Sharesave award in 2004 of 439 options.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors remuneration report Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 132 Directors remuneration report continued No options had their terms and conditions varied during years has exceeded the growth in the RPI plus 6%.
the accounting period to 31 December 2004.
No payment is required on the award of an option.
The market price of the companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2004 was 17.52 and the range during the year The executive share options which are exercisable from March to 31 December 2004 was 14.64 to 17.64.
2002 onwards are subject to the satisfaction of an EPS growth target which provides that options are excercisable only if, over In the ten year period to 31 December 2004, awards made a three year period, the growth in the companys EPS has using new issue shares under the companys share plans exceeded the growth in the RPI plus 9%.
In respect of executive represented 4.3% of the companys issued ordinary share share options exercisable before March 2002 the performance capital, leaving an available dilution headroom of 5.7%.
The exercise and vesting of awards in 2004 for Mr McLuskie occurred after his retirement from the Board on 23 August 2004.
Note: The vesting of option-based awards under the MPP does not trigger any payment to participants.
Values shown at the time of vesting in the above table illustrate the potential value of the award at that time.
For any awards that have vested, participants holding option-based awards can exercise their right over the underlying share equivalents at any time up to ten years from the date of grant.
No variation was made to any of the terms of the plan during the year.
The performance measures are detailed on page 125.
Phantom 2000 Plan Awards granted during year End of the period for Phantom 2000 units at Units awarded Market price qualifying conditions Benefits received Phantom 2000 units at 1 January 2004 during year on award to be fulfilled during year 31 December 2004 Mr Fish 1,000,000 01.01.04 1,000,000 1,000,000 01.01.05 1,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 No variation was made to any of the terms of the plan during the year.
The performance measures are detailed on page 126.
Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan Benefits received Interests at 1 January 2004 Awards granted during year during year Interests at 31 December 2004 Mr Fish LTIP awards for the LTIP award for the LTIP award for the LTIP awards for the 3 year periods: 3 year period: 3 year period: 3 year periods: 01.01.01 31.12.03 01.01.04 31.12.06 01.01.01 31.12.03 01.01.02 31.12.04 01.01.02 31.12.04 was $1,020,831 01.01.03 31.12.05 01.01.03 31.12.05 01.01.04 31.12.06 Under the cash LTIP, target payment is 60% of average salary over the three year period, maximum payment is 105% of average salary.
Directors remuneration report RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 133 Directors pension arrangements During the year, Sir Fred Goodwin, Norman McLuskie, Gordon Sir George Mathewson receives life insurance cover under an Pell, Iain Robertson and Fred Watt participated in The Royal individual arrangement.
The non-executive directors do not Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund the RBS Fund.
The accrue pension benefits, other than Mr Robertson who RBS Fund is a defined benefit fund which provides pensions continues to accrue benefits in the RBS Fund after his and other benefits within Inland Revenue limits.
The pension entitlements of Sir Fred Goodwin, Mr Pell, Mr Lawrence Fish accrues pension benefits under a number of Robertson, and Mr Watt within the RBS Fund are restricted arrangements in the USA.
Defined benefits are built up under by Inland Revenue limits as set out in the Finance Act 1989. the Citizens Qualified Plan, Excess Plan and Supplemental 133 Additional life assurance cover in excess of these limits is Executive Retirement Arrangement.
In addition, he is a provided by a separate arrangement.
Arrangements have been member of two defined contribution arrangements a made to provide Sir Fred Goodwin and Mr Pell with additional Qualified 401 k Plan and an Excess 401 k Plan.
pension benefits on a defined benefit basis outwith the RBS Fund.
The figures shown below include the accrual in respect As in the 2003 Report and Accounts, disclosure of these of these arrangements.
Mr Watt is provided with additional benefits has been made in accordance with the Stock pension benefits on a defined contribution basis and Exchange Listing Rules and the Combined Code and with contributions made in the year are shown below.
the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Transfer value Additional Additional for the additional pensionpension Increasepension earned earned in transfer earned Accrued during the during the Transfer Transfer value during during the entitlement at year ended year ended value as at value as at year ended year ended Age at 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2004 2004 2004 2004 2003 2004 2004 Defined benefit arrangements 2004 000 p. a.
The former requires the disclosure of the additional pension earned during the year and the transfer value equivalent to this pension based on stock market conditions at the end of the year.
The latter requires the disclosure of the difference between the transfer value at the start and end of the year and is therefore dependent on the change in stock market conditions over the course of the year.
The above disclosure has been made in accordance with the Combined Code and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
2 Mr McLuskie retired on 23 August 2004 at his normal pension age.
The figures for him above have been calculated as at his retirement date rather than 31 December 2004.
3 The figures for Mr Pell include an additional pension secured by a transfer from his previous employer which increases in line with statutory revaluation, not salary inflation.
4 The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the company pension scheme.
5 The transfer value for Mr Fish as at 31 December 2004 is based on a retirement age of 65.
Contributions and allowances paid in the year ended 31 December 2004 under defined contribution arrangements were: 2004 2003 section 000 000 Mr Watt 128 109 02 Mr Fish $91 $90 Bob Scott, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 February 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors remuneration report Governance RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 134 Directors interests in shares Ordinary shares The following directors held a beneficial interest in the companys ordinary shares: 31 December 1 January 2004 or date 31 December 1 January 2004 or date 2004 of appointment if later 2004 of appointment if later Mr Buchan 5,000 5,000 Sir George Mathewson 250,816 247,978 Mr Fish 11,120 11,120 Mr Pell 582 582 Sir Fred Goodwin 64,960 64,718 Mr Robertson 129,632 125,139 Mr Hunter 1,500 1,500 Mr Scott 2,448 1,445 Mr Koch 20,000 20,000 Lord Vallance 2,500 2,500 134 Mr MacHale 10,000 Mr Watt 58,408 7,453 Miss Mackay 6,341 6,140 No other director had an interest in the companys ordinary shares during the year.
On both 7 January 2005 and 7 February 2005, seven ordinary shares of 25p each were acquired by Sir Fred Goodwin under the Groups Buy As You Earn share scheme.
Preference shares Lawrence Fish held 20,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each at 31 December 2004 2003 20,000.
No other director had an interest in the preference shares during the year.
Loan notes No director had an interest in loan notes during the year.
The companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection, contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
No director held a non-beneficial interest in the shares of the company at 31 December 2004, at 1 January 2004 or date of appointment if later.
Directors interests in shares RBS Annual Report 113-135 7 3 05 11:13 am Page 135 Statement of directors responsibilities United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those accounts, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 135 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
"Miller McLean Secretary 23 February 2005 section 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Statement of directors responsibilities Governance RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 136 136 RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 137 Financial statements Contents 137 138 Independent auditors report 139 Accounting policies 143 Consolidated profit and loss account 144 Consolidated balance sheet 145 Statement of consolidated total recognised gains and losses 145 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders funds 146 Consolidated cash flow statement 147 Balance sheet the company 148 Notes on the accounts section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 138 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc We have audited the financial statements of The Royal Bank of Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Scotland Group plc ""the company"" and its subsidiaries auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board and together ""the Group"" for the year ended 31 December 2004 with the standards of the United States Public Company which comprise the accounting policies, the profit and loss Accounting Oversight Board."
An audit includes examination, account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and statement of total recognised gains and losses, the disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds and the directors remuneration report described as having been related Notes 1 to 54.
These financial statements have been audited.
An audit includes consideration of internal control prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit have also audited the information in the part of the directors 138 procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
It also includes an body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements state to the companys members those matters we are and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other circumstances of the company and the Group, consistently purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not applied and adequately disclosed.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors assurance that the financial statements and the part of the As described in the Statement of directors responsibilities, directors remuneration report described as having been audited the companys directors are responsible for the preparation are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud of the financial statements in accordance with applicable or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the financial statements and the part of the directors in the 2004 Annual Report including the directors remuneration remuneration report described as having been audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having UK opinion been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
of the state of affairs of the company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements for the year then ended and the financial statements and the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements part of the directors remuneration report described as having and the part of the directors remuneration report described as been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance the Companies Act 1985. with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial US opinion statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all records, if we have not received all the information and material respects, the financial position of the Group as at 31 explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified December 2004 and 2003 and the results of its operations and by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended the company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
31 December 2004 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the company's compliance with the nine provisions of Accounting principles generally accepted in the United the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Kingdom vary in certain significant respects from accounting Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's The application of the latter would have affected the statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or determination of net income for each of the three years in the form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate period ended 31 December 2004 and the determination of governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
shareholders equity as at 31 December 2004 and 2003, to the extent summarised in Note 53 to the financial statements.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the 2004 Annual Report as described in the contents section including the unaudited part of the directors Deloitte & Touche LLP remuneration report and consider the implications for our Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Edinburgh material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
23 February 2005 Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 139 Accounting policies The accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the statement Accounting Standards in the UK and the Statements of of total recognised gains and losses for the period.
Recommended Accounting Practice issued by the British Under SSAP24 for the main defined benefit scheme the profit Bankers Association and by the Finance and Leasing and loss account charge comprised the cost of accruing Association.
The Statement of Recommended Practice issued benefits for active employees and the amortisation of the by the Association of British Insurers 2003 has been followed surplus recognised on the acquisition of NatWest offset by a by the insurance members of the Group: they have been credit for the amortisation of the scheme surplus.
A pension consolidated in the recognised manner for banking groups, in prepayment was included in the Groups balance sheet.
particular, by using the embedded value method for life business.
A summary of the more important accounting policies is set The effect of this change of policy on the profit and loss 139 out below.
The consolidated accounts are prepared in account has been to credit 85 million 2003 52 million: 2002 accordance with the special provisions of Part VII of the 201 million to Other operating income and to increase Companies Act 1985 the Act relating to banking groups.
Administrative expenses staff costs by 217 million 2003 135 million: 2002 112 million.
Profit before tax has been The accounts of the company are prepared in accordance reduced by 132 million 2003 83 million: 2002 increased with section 226 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Act and, as by 89 million.
A deficit, net of deferred tax, of 1,901 million permitted by section 230 3 of the Act, no profit and loss 2003 1,445 million has been recognised on the balance account is presented.
sheet: Prepayments and accrued income of 1,079 million 2003 112 million, Other assets of 654 million 2003 735 Change of accounting policy million and Accruals and deferred income of 26 million 2003 FRS 17 Retirement Benefits FRS 17 supersedes Statement 18 million have been eliminated: the liability for deferred of Standard Accounting Practice 24 'Pension costs SSAP24 taxation has reduced by 315 million 2003 230 million and and the Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 6 Accounting for the Deferred tax asset within Other assets has increased by post-retirement benefits other than pensions.
All the disclosure 19 million 2003 20 million.
Other provisions have requirements of FRS 17 were adopted by the Group in its 2002 decreased by 73 million 2003 43 million and shareholders financial statements.
In November 2002, the Accounting funds by 3,220 million.
A prior year adjustment of 2,001 Standards Board deferred the effective date of the recognition million is shown in the Statement of consolidated total and measurement elements of the standard to accounting recognised gains and losses.
The prior year adjustment periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The Group has, comprises: the recognition of the pension deficit at 31 however, implemented the recognition and measurement December 2003 of 1,414 million 1,968 million less deferred provisions of FRS 17 in 2004 in the light of the introduction of tax of 554 million : the elimination of pension prepayments International Financial Reporting Standards from 1 January less accruals of 58 million net of deferred tax : and the 2005: the measurement principles in the equivalent elimination of the pension surplus recognised on the international accounting standard IAS 19 Employee Benefits acquisition of NatWest amounting to 529 million net of are similar to those in FRS 17. deferred tax and amortisation.
FRS 17 requires assets in a defined benefit scheme to be 1 Accounting convention and bases of consolidation measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
Scheme The accounts are prepared under the historical cost liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, which convention modified by the periodic revaluation of premises takes account of projected earnings increases, using actuarial and certain investments.
To avoid undue delay in the assumptions that are mutually compatible and lead to the best presentation of the Groups accounts, the accounts of certain estimate of the future cash flows.
These cash flows are subsidiary undertakings have been made up to 30 November.
discounted at the interest rate applicable to high-quality There have been no changes in respect of these subsidiary corporate bonds of the same currency and term as the liabilities.
undertakings, in the period from their balance sheet dates to The surplus deficit in a defined benefit scheme is the 31 December, that materially affect the view given by the excess shortfall of the value of the assets in the scheme Groups accounts.
over below the value of the scheme liabilities.
A surplus is section recognised as an asset to the extent that the employer is able 2 Revenue recognition to recover the surplus either through reduced contributions in Interest is credited to the profit and loss account as it accrues 03 the future or through refunds from the scheme.
A deficit is unless there is significant doubt that it can be collected as recognised as a liability to the extent of the employers legal or described in the accounting policy on loans and advances.
constructive obligation to fund it.
The current service cost the increase in scheme liabilities arising from employee service in the Fees in respect of services are recognised as the right to current period, past service costs the cost of improvements to consideration accrues through performance to customers.
benefits for service relating to prior periods and interest cost the Services are in respect of financial services related products, unwind of the discount on scheme liabilities net of the expected the arrangement is generally contractual, the cost of providing return on scheme assets are charged to the profit and loss this service is incurred as the service is rendered and the account.
Actuarial gains and losses changes in surpluses or price is usually fixed and always determinable.
The application deficits due to experience gains and losses and to changes in of the Groups policy to significant fee types is outlined below.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accounting policies Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 140 Accounting policies continued Loan origination fees: up-front lending fees are recognised as events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying income when receivable except where they are charged in lieu value may not be recoverable in full.
Goodwill arising on of interest or charged to cover the cost of a continuing service acquisitions of subsidiary and associated undertakings prior to to the borrower, in which case they are credited to income over 1 October 1998, previously charged directly against profit and the life of the advance.
loss account reserves, was not reinstated under the transitional provisions of FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
It will be Commitment and utilisation fees: these are generally written back only on disposal and reflected in the calculation of determined as a percentage of the outstanding used or the gains or losses arising.
They are usually charged to the customer in arrears and recognised when charged.
4 Foreign currencies 140 Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Payment services: this comprises income received for payment currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange services including cheques cashed, direct debits, Clearing ruling at the balance sheet date.
Profit and loss accounts of House Automated Payments the UK electronic settlement overseas branches and subsidiary undertakings are translated system and BACS payments the automated clearing house at the average rates of exchange for the period.
Exchange that processes direct debits and direct credits.
These are differences arising from the application of closing rates of generally charged on a per transaction basis.
The income is exchange to the opening net assets of overseas branches and earned when the payment or transaction occurs.
Payment subsidiary undertakings and from restating their results from services income is usually charged to the customers account, average to period-end rates are taken to profit and loss monthly or quarterly in arrears.
Accruals are raised for services account reserves, together with exchange differences arising provided but not charged at period end.
on related foreign currency borrowings.
All other exchange differences are included in operating profit.
Card related services: fees from credit card business include: 5 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Commission received from retailers for processing credit The Group provides retirement benefits, in the form of and debit card transactions: income is accrued to the profit pensions and healthcare plans, to eligible employees.
Defined and loss account as the service is performed.
benefit scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate that Interchange received: as issuer, the Group receives a fee equals the current rate of return on a high quality corporate interchange each time a cardholder purchases goods and bond of equivalent term and currency to the scheme liabilities.
The Group also receives interchange fees from Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus or other card issuers for providing cash advances through its deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the branch and Automated Teller Machine networks.
These fees balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit, net of are accrued once the transaction has taken place.
An asset is only recognised to the extent that the surplus can be recovered through reduced An annual fee payable by a credit card holder is charged at contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
the beginning of each year but is deferred and taken to income over the period of the service i. e. 12 months.
The current service cost and any past service costs are charged to the profit and loss account within Administrative Insurance brokerage: this is made up of fees and commissions expenses staff costs.
The expected return on scheme assets received from the agency sale of insurance.
Commission on less the unwinding of the discount on the scheme liabilities is the sale of an insurance contract is earned at the inception of included in Other operating income.
Actuarial gains and losses the policy as the insurance has been arranged and placed.
are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and However, provision is made where commission is refundable in losses, net of related notional deferred tax.
the event of policy cancellation in line with estimated cancellations.
6 Leases Contracts to lease assets and hire purchase agreements are Securities and derivatives held for trading are recorded at fair classified as finance leases if they transfer substantially all the value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in dealing profits risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the customer.
together with dividends from, and interest receivable and Other contracts are classified as operating leases.
Total gross payable on, trading business assets and liabilities.
earnings under finance leases are allocated to accounting periods using the actuarial after tax method to give a constant 3 Goodwill periodic rate of return on the net cash investment.
Finance Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition of subsidiary lease receivables are stated in the balance sheet at the and associated undertakings over the fair value of the Groups amount of the net investment in the lease.
Rental income from share of net tangible assets acquired.
Goodwill arising on operating leases is credited to the profit and loss account on a acquisitions of subsidiary and associated undertakings after 1 receivable basis over the term of the lease.
Balance sheet October 1998 is capitalised on the balance sheet and carrying values of finance lease receivables and operating amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful lease assets include amounts in respect of the residual values economic life, currently over periods up to 20 years.
Unguaranteed residual values are subject Capitalised goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the end of to regular review to identify potential impairments.
Provisions the first full year following an acquisition and subsequently if are made for impairment arising on specific asset categories.
Accounting policies RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 141 7 General insurance securities at market price: investment properties and loans at General insurance comprises short-duration contracts and valuation.
These assets are held in the life funds of the Groups include principally property and liability insurance contracts.
life assurance companies, and although legally owned by Due to the nature of the products sold retail based property them, the Group only benefits from these assets when surpluses and casualty, motor, home and personal health insurance are declared.
To reflect the distinct nature of the long-term contracts the insurance protection is provided on an even assurance assets, they are shown separately on the consolidated basis throughout the term of the policy.
balance sheet, as are liabilities attributable to policyholders.
In calculating operating profit from general insurance activities, The Group has reinsured contracts that transfer significant premiums net of reinsurance premiums are recognised in the insurance risk.
Within net assets, the reinsurance cash flows 141 accounting period in which they begin.
Unearned premiums are recognised when they become payable.
For most contracts represent the proportion of the net premiums that relate to this effectively spreads the cost of reinsurance over the life of periods of insurance after the balance sheet date and are the reinsured contracts.
In some cases, the acquisition costs calculated over the period of exposure under the policy, on a are financed by the reinsurer offering a nil premium payment daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for the estimated incidence period.
In these cases, the acquisition costs incurred on the of exposure under policies which are longer than twelve underlying insurance contracts are compared with the benefit months.
Provision is made where necessary for the estimated arising with respect to the nil premium paying period on the amount required over and above unearned premiums net of reinsurance contract.
reinsurance, including that in respect of future written business on discontinued lines under the run-off of delegated underwriting 9 Loans and advances authority arrangements.
It is designed to meet future claims The Group makes provisions for bad and doubtful debts, and related expenses and is calculated across related classes through charges to the profit and loss account, so as to record of business on the basis of a separate carry forward of impaired loans and advances at their expected ultimate net deferred acquisition expenses after making allowance for realisable value.
Specific provisions are made against individual loans and Acquisition expenses relating to new and renewed business for advances that the Group no longer expects to recover in full.
all classes are deferred over the period during which the For the Groups portfolios of smaller balance homogeneous premiums are unearned.
The principal acquisition costs so advances, such as credit card receivables, specific provisions deferred are commissions payable, direct advertising expenditure, are established on a portfolio basis taking into account the costs associated with the telesales and underwriting staff and level of arrears, security and past loss experience.
For loans prepaid claims handling costs in respect of delegated claims and advances that are individually assessed, the specific handling arrangements for claims which are expected to occur provision is determined from a review of the financial condition after the balance sheet date.
of the borrower and any guarantor and takes into account the nature and value of any security held.
Claims net of reinsurance are recognised in the accounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full The general provision is made to cover bad and doubtful debts cost net of reinsurance of settling outstanding claims at the that have not been separately identified at the balance sheet balance sheet date, including claims estimated to have been date but are known to be present in any portfolio of advances.
incurred but not yet reported at that date, and claims handling The level of general provision is determined in the light of past expenses.
experience, current economic and other factors affecting the business environment and the Groups monitoring and control 8 Long-term life assurance business procedures, including the scope of specific provisioning The Groups long-term assurance business includes whole-life, procedures.
guaranteed renewable term life, endowment, annuity and universal life contracts that are expected to remain in force for Specific and general provisions are deducted from loans and an extended period of time, generally five to forty years.
When there is significant doubt that interest section receivable can be collected, it is excluded from the profit and The value placed on the Groups long-term life assurance loss account and credited to an interest suspense account.
03 business comprises the net assets of the Groups life Loans and advances and suspended interest are written off in assurance subsidiaries, including its interest in the surpluses part or in whole when there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
retained within the long-term assurance funds, and the present value of profits inherent in in-force policies.
In calculating the 10 Taxation value of in-force policies, future surpluses expected to emerge Provision is made for taxation at current enacted rates on are estimated using appropriate assumptions as to future taxable profits taking into account relief for overseas taxation mortality, persistency and levels of expenses, which are then where appropriate.
Timing differences arise where gains and discounted at a risk-adjusted rate.
Changes in this value, losses are accounted for in different periods for financial which is determined on a post-tax basis, are included in reporting purposes and for taxation purposes.
Deferred operating profit, grossed up at the underlying rate of taxation.
taxation is accounted for in full for all such timing differences, Long-term assurance assets attributable to policyholders are except in relation to revaluations of fixed assets where there is valued on the following bases: equity shares and debt no commitment to dispose of the asset, taxable gains on sales Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Accounting policies Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 142 Accounting policies continued of fixed assets that are rolled over into the tax cost of 14 Derivatives replacement assets, and unremitted overseas earnings.
The Group enters into derivative transactions including futures, Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is forwards, swaps and options principally in the interest rate, considered more likely than not that they will be recovered.
foreign exchange and equity markets.
The accounting treatment Deferred tax amounts are not discounted.
for these instruments is dependent upon whether they are entered into for trading or non-trading hedging purposes.
11 Debt securities and equity shares Debt securities and equity shares intended for use on a Trading continuing basis in the Groups activities are classified as Derivatives held for trading purposes are recognised in the investment securities and are stated at cost less provision for accounts at fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in 142 any permanent diminution in value.
The cost of dated fair value are included in dealing profits in the consolidated investment securities is adjusted for the amortisation of profit and loss account.
Fair value is based on quoted market premiums or discounts over periods to redemption and the prices.
Where representative market prices are not available, amortisation is included in interest receivable.
Other debt the fair value is determined from current market information securities and equity shares are carried at fair value, with using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
Adjustments are changes in fair value recognised in the profit and loss account.
made to quoted market prices where appropriate to cover credit risk, liquidity risk and future operational costs.
In the 12 Shares in subsidiary undertakings consolidated balance sheet, positive fair values assets of The companys shares in subsidiary undertakings are stated in trading derivatives are included in Other assets and negative the balance sheet of the company at directors valuation that fair values liabilities in Other liabilities.
Positive and negative takes account of the subsidiary undertakings net asset values.
fair values of trading derivatives are offset where the contracts have been entered into under master netting agreements or other 13 Tangible fixed assets arrangements that give a legally enforceable right of set-off.
Freehold and long leasehold properties are revalued on a rolling basis, each property being revalued at least every five Non-trading years.
Other tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less Non-trading derivatives are entered into by the Group to hedge depreciation and provisions for impairment.
Costs of adapting exposures arising from transactions entered into in the normal premises for the use of the Group are separately identified and course of banking activities.
They are recognised in the depreciated.
accounts in accordance with the accounting treatment of the underlying transaction or transactions being hedged.
To be Tangible fixed assets are depreciated to their residual value classified as non-trading, a derivative must match or eliminate over their estimated useful economic lives on a straight-line the risk inherent in the hedged item from potential movements in basis, as follows: interest rates, exchange rates or market values.
In addition, there must be a demonstrable link to an underlying transaction, pool Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years of transactions or specified future transaction or transactions.
Specified future transactions must be reasonably certain to Short leaseholds unexpired period of arise for the derivative to be accounted for as a hedge.
In the the lease event that a non-trading derivative transaction is terminated or Property adaptation costs 10 to 15 years ceases to be an effective hedge, the derivative is re-measured Computer equipment up to 5 years at fair value and any resulting profit or loss amortised over the Other equipment 4 to 15 years remaining life of the underlying transaction or transactions being hedged.
If a hedged item is derecognised, or a specified future transaction is no longer likely to occur, the Assets on operating leases are depreciated over their related non-trading derivative is remeasured at fair value and estimated useful lives on a straight-line or reverse-annuity basis.
Land has an unlimited life and is not depreciated.
the resulting profit or loss taken to the profit and loss account.
15 Sale and repurchase transactions Investment properties are revalued annually to open market Securities which have been sold with an agreement to value.
No depreciation is charged on freehold investment repurchase continue to be shown on the balance sheet and properties, in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 19 Accounting for investment the sale proceeds recorded as a deposit.
This is a departure from the requirements of the in reverse sale and repurchase transactions are not recognised in the balance sheet and the purchase price is Companies Act 1985 which requires all tangible fixed assets to treated as a loan.
The difference between the sale price and be depreciated.
Investment properties are held not for repurchase price is accrued evenly over the life of the consumption but for investment and the directors consider that to depreciate them would not give a true and fair view.
It is not transaction and charged or credited to the profit and loss practicable to assess estimated useful lives for investment account as interest payable or receivable.
properties, and accordingly the effect of not depreciating them cannot be reasonably quantified.
Accounting policies RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 143 Consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 2002 Note m m m Interest receivable interest receivable and similar income arising from debt securities 1,517 1,519 1,591 other interest receivable and similar income 15,179 12,479 11,970 Interest payable 7,488 5,697 5,712 Net interest income 9,208 8,301 7,849 Dividend income 79 58 58 Fees and commissions receivable 6,634 5,693 5,249 Fees and commissions payable 1,954 1,337 965 Dealing profits 1 1,988 1,793 1,462 143 Other operating income 1,855 1,650 1,410 8,602 7,857 7,214 General insurance earned premiums 5,357 3,627 2,442 reinsurance 413 504 489 Non-interest income 13,546 10,980 9,167 Total income 22,754 19,281 17,016 Administrative expenses staff costs 2 5,344 4,653 4,584 premises and equipment 1,184 1,073 1,006 other 2,296 2,108 2,253 Depreciation and amortisation tangible fixed assets 20 1,107 919 895 goodwill 19 915 763 731 Operating expenses 10,846 9,516 9,469 Profit before other operating charges 11,908 9,765 7,547 General insurance gross claims 3,724 2,644 1,693 reinsurance 244 449 343 Profit before provisions for bad and doubtful debts 8,428 7,570 6,197 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 13 1,428 1,461 1,286 Amounts written off fixed asset investments 83 33 59 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 4 6,917 6,076 4,852 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 5 2,155 1,888 1,582 Profit on ordinary activities after tax 4,762 4,188 3,270 Minority interests including non-equity 32 250 210 133 Profit for the financial year 4,512 3,978 3,137 Preference dividends non-equity 6 256 261 305 4,256 3,717 2,832 Additional Value Shares dividend non-equity 6 1,463 798 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,256 2,254 2,034 Ordinary dividends 7 1,837 1,490 1,267 Retained profit 34 2,419 764 767 Per 25p ordinary share: Basic earnings 9 138.0p 76.9p 70.6p Additional Value Shares dividend 49.9p 27.7p section 138.0p 126.8p 98.3p 03 Goodwill amortisation 28.7p 25.0p 24.2p Integration costs 5.8p 5.4p 23.8p Adjusted earnings 172.5p 157.2p 146.3p Diluted earnings 9 136.9p 76.3p 69.6p Dividends 7 58.0p 50.3p 43.7p All items dealt with in arriving at profit on ordinary activities before tax relate to continuing operations.
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation and the retained profit for the year on a historical cost basis were not materially different from the reported amounts.
restated see page 139 includes integration expenditure see Note 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Consolidated profit and loss account Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 144 Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Note m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 4,293 3,822 Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,629 2,501 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 10 6,110 4,846 Loans and advances to banks 11 58,260 51,891 Loans and advances to customers 350,229 253,392 Less: non-returnable finance 12 4,760 861 12 345,469 252,531 Debt securities 15 91,211 79,949 144 Equity shares 16 2,960 2,300 Intangible fixed assets 19 17,576 13,131 Tangible fixed assets 20 16,294 13,927 Settlement balances 5,682 2,857 Other assets 21 22,255 17,807 Prepayments and accrued income 6,928 5,309 579,667 450,871 Long-term assurance assets attributable to policyholders 22 3,800 3,557 Total assets 583,467 454,428 Liabilities Deposits by banks 23 99,081 67,323 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 802 958 Customer accounts 24 285,062 236,963 Debt securities in issue 25 58,960 41,016 Settlement balances and short positions 26 32,990 21,369 Other liabilities 27 26,152 20,584 Accruals and deferred income 15,588 13,155 Post-retirement benefit liabilities 3 1,901 1,445 Provisions for liabilities and charges deferred taxation 28 2,873 2,036 other provisions 29 198 213 Subordinated liabilities dated loan capital 30 11,013 9,312 undated loan capital including convertible debt 31 9,353 7,686 Minority interests equity 158 11 non-equity 32 3,671 2,724 Called up share capital 33 822 769 Share premium account 34 12,964 8,175 Merger reserve 34 10,307 10,881 Other reserves 34 457 419 Revaluation reserve 34 92 7 Profit and loss account 34 7,223 5,847 Shareholders funds equity 27,345 23,175 non-equity 34 4,520 2,923 579,667 450,871 Long-term assurance liabilities attributable to policyholders 22 3,800 3,557 Total liabilities 583,467 454,428 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities 41 16,093 14,864 Commitments standby facilities, credit lines and other 41 180,777 139,693 restated see page 139 The accounts were approved by the Board of directors on 23 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by: Sir George Mathewson Sir Fred Goodwin Fred Watt Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Consolidated balance sheet RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 145 Statement of consolidated total recognised gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 2002 m m m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,256 2,254 2,034 Actuarial losses gains 1,598 69 2,392 Current tax relief 56 Deferred tax asset liability 408 33 700 Actuarial losses gains recognised in post-retirement benefit schemes 1,134 36 1,692 Currency translation adjustments and other movements 399 48 37 145 Revaluation of premises 56 69 33 Other recognised losses gains 343 21 4 Total recognised gains and losses in the year 2,779 2,269 346 Prior year adjustment arising from the implementation of FRS 17 2,001 Total recognised gains and losses since 31 December 2003 778 Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders funds for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 2002 m m m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,256 2,254 2,034 Ordinary dividends 1,837 1,490 1,267 Retained profit for the year 2,419 764 767 Issue of ordinary and preference shares 4,603 775 560 Conversion of exchangeable undated loan capital 460 Redemption of preference shares 364 600 Actuarial losses gains recognised in post-retirement benefit schemes 1,134 36 1,692 Own shares held in relation to employee share scheme 7 Goodwill previously written off to reserves 40 Other recognised gains and losses 343 21 4 Currency translation adjustment on share premium account 231 203 283 Net increase decrease in shareholders funds 5,767 1,027 1,244 Opening shareholders funds as previously reported 28,099 27,052 26,668 Prior year adjustment arising from the implementation of FRS 17 2,001 1,981 353 Opening shareholders funds as restated 26,098 25,071 26,315 Net increase decrease in shareholders funds 5,767 1,027 1,244 Closing shareholders funds 31,865 26,098 25,071 restated see page 139 section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Statement of consolidated total recognised gains and losses Financial Reconciliation of movements in consolidated shareholders funds statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 146 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 2002 2002 Note m m m m m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 43 6,307 19,708 13,737 Dividends received from associated undertakings 9 91 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Preference dividends paid 253 269 317 Additional Value Shares dividend paid 1,463 798 Dividends paid to minority shareholders in subsidiary undertakings 204 130 112 146 Interest paid on subordinated liabilities 613 557 674 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 1,070 2,419 1,901 Taxation UK tax paid 812 933 833 Overseas tax paid 582 521 274 Net cash outflow from taxation 1,394 1,454 1,107 Capital expenditure and financial investment Purchase of investment securities 41,790 44,861 32,701 Sale and maturity of investment securities 43,022 41,805 26,072 Purchase of tangible fixed assets 4,354 5,017 3,367 Sale of tangible fixed assets 1,596 1,108 811 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment 1,526 6,965 9,185 Acquisitions and disposals Purchase of businesses and subsidiary undertakings net of cash acquired 44 7,648 1,748 308 Investment in associated undertakings 48 2 2 Sale of subsidiary and associated undertakings net of cash sold 45 22 179 29 Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals 7,674 1,571 281 Ordinary equity dividends paid 1,235 772 729 Net cash outflow inflow before financing 6,583 6,536 535 Financing Proceeds from issue of ordinary share capital 2,845 184 85 Proceeds from issue of preference share capital 1,358 Proceeds from issue of trust preferred securities 1,075 883 1,242 Redemption of preference share capital 364 600 Issue of subordinated liabilities 4,624 3,817 2,157 Repayment of subordinated liabilities 718 336 202 Increase decrease in minority interests 185 56 29 Net cash inflow from financing 9,369 4,128 2,711 Increase in cash 48 2,786 10,664 3,246 Consolidated cash flow statement RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 147 Balance sheet the company at 31 December 2004 2004 2003 Note m m Fixed assets Investments: Shares in Group undertakings 17 36,870 32,354 Loans to Group undertakings 18 4,101 4,554 40,971 36,908 Current assets Debtors: Due by subsidiary undertakings 458 238 147 Debtors and prepayments 174 202 632 440 Creditors Amounts falling due within one year: Due to banks 66 71 Dated loan capital 30 40 40 Debt securities in issue 1,608 1,877 Other creditors 247 217 Proposed final dividend 7 1,308 1,059 3,269 3,264 Net current liabilities 2,637 2,824 Total assets less current liabilities 38,334 34,084 Creditors Amounts falling due beyond one year: Loans from subsidiary undertakings 162 186 Dated loan capital 30 4,810 3,714 Undated loan capital including convertible debt 31 1,085 1,639 6,057 5,539 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 33 822 769 Share premium account 34 12,964 8,175 Other reserves 34 156 156 Revaluation reserve 34 14,970 16,857 Profit and loss account 34 3,365 2,588 Shareholders funds equity 27,757 25,622 non-equity 34 4,520 2,923 38,334 34,084 The accounts were approved by the Board of directors on 23 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by: section 03 Sir George Mathewson Sir Fred Goodwin Fred Watt Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Balance sheet the company Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 148 Notes on the accounts 1 Dealing profits 2004 2003 2002 m m m Foreign exchange 1 616 540 447 Securities Equities 2 36 24 18 Debt 3 811 774 644 Interest rate derivatives 4 525 455 353 1,988 1,793 1,462 148 Dealing profits include interest income and expense recognised on trading-related interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and exclude direct costs and administrative expenses.
Notes: 1 Includes spot and forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps, futures and options and related hedges and funding.
2 Includes equities, equity derivatives, commodity contracts and related hedges and funding.
3 Includes debt securities and related hedges and funding.
4 Includes interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, interest rate options, interest rate futures and credit derivatives and related hedges and funding.
2 Administrative expenses staff costs 2004 2003 2002 m m m Wages, salaries and other staff costs 4,543 3,997 4,001 Social security costs 295 248 239 Pension costs see Note 3 506 408 344 5,344 4,653 4,584 restated see page 139 The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year, excluding temporary staff, was 133,300 2003 119,500: 2002 113,500.
3 Pension costs The Group operates a number of pension schemes which are predominantly defined benefit schemes whose assets are independent of the Group's finances.
In addition to the main scheme, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund, the Group operates a number of other UK and overseas pension schemes.
It also provides other post-retirement benefits, principally through subscriptions to private healthcare schemes in the UK and the US and unfunded post-retirement benefit plans.
Provision for the costs of these benefits is charged to the profit and loss account over the average remaining future service lives of the eligible employees.
The amounts are not material.
The total pension costs for the Group were as follows: Main UK Other 2004 2003 2002 scheme schemes Total Total Total Amount charged to profit and loss account m m m m m Expected return on pension scheme assets 840 82 922 826 988 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 759 78 837 774 787 Net return credited to other operating income 81 4 85 52 201 Current service cost 400 51 451 371 322 Past service cost 11 11 3 Net pension cost defined benefit schemes 319 58 377 319 124 Defined contribution schemes and other retirement benefits 44 44 37 19 Total net pension costs 319 102 421 356 143 2004 2003 2002 The total net pension costs are included in the profit and loss account as follows: m m m Other operating income 85 52 201 Staff costs pension costs see Note 2 506 408 344 Total net pension costs 421 356 143 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 149 For the purposes of FRS 17, interim valuations of the Groups schemes were prepared to 31 December by independent actuaries, using the following assumptions: 2004 2003 2002 Main UK Other Group Main UK Other Group Main UK Other Group scheme schemes scheme schemes scheme schemes Rate of increase in salaries per annum 3.95% 3.6% 3.95% 3.8% 3.50% 3.2% Rate of increase in pensions in payment per annum 2.70% 2.5% 2.70% 2.3% 2.25% 1.7% Discount rate per annum 5.40% 5.2% 5.60% 5.8% 5.75% 5.8% Inflation assumption per annum 2.70% 2.5% 2.70% 2.1% 2.25% 1.7% weighted average 149 The assets and liabilities of the schemes were as follows: 2004 2003 2002 Main UK Other Group Main UK Other Group Main UK Other Group scheme schemes scheme schemes schemes schemes m m m m m m Equities 7,713 777 7,621 686 7,161 610 Bonds 2,238 244 3,818 276 3,298 260 Other 3,647 208 383 103 223 140 Total market value of assets 13,598 1,229 11,822 1,065 10,682 1,010 Present value of scheme liabilities 16,051 1,626 13,594 1,261 12,418 1,130 Net deficit in the schemes 2,453 397 1,772 196 1,736 120 Deferred tax asset 905 78 532 22 521 20 Net pension deficit 1,548 319 1,240 174 1,215 100 Other unfunded liabilities net 34 31 26 Post-retirement benefit liabilities 1,548 353 1,240 205 1,215 126 The assumptions for long-term rates of return on the principal classes of assets at 31 December 2004 were equities 8.1%, gilts 4.5%, other bonds 5.4%, property 6.3% and cash and other assets 4.6% 2003 equities 8.4%, gilts 4.8%, other bonds 5.6%, property 6.6% and cash and other assets 4.9%: 2002 equities 8.4%, gilts 4.5%, other bonds 5.75%, property 6.5% and cash 4.5%.
2004 2003 2002 Amount recognised in the statement of consolidated total recognised gains and losses m m m Actual return less expected return on pension scheme assets 411 872 2,645 Experience gains and losses arising on scheme liabilities 631 7 25 Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 1,378 810 278 Actuarial losses gains 1,598 69 2,392 Current tax relief 56 Deferred tax asset liability 408 33 700 Actuarial losses gains recognised in post-retirement benefit schemes 1,134 36 1,692 2004 2003 2002 Total Total Total Movement in pension schemes deficits surpluses during the year m m m Deficit surplus in the pension schemes at 1 January 1,968 1,856 492 Movement in year: Current service cost 451 371 322 Past service cost 11 3 Contributions 1,145 139 167 section Other operating income 85 52 201 03 Actuarial losses gains 1,598 69 2,392 Acquisition of subsidiaries 32 Exchange and other movements 20 1 1 Deficit in schemes at 31 December 2,850 1,968 1,856 Deferred tax asset 983 554 541 Net pension deficit 1,867 1,414 1,315 Other unfunded liabilities net 34 31 26 Post-retirement benefit liabilities 1,901 1,445 1,341 Following the latest formal valuation carried out by independent actuaries as at 31 March 2004, the contribution rate with effect from 1 April 2004 for the main UK scheme is 21.5% of pensionable salaries 2003 and 2002 6.8% based on the valuation as at 31 March 2001.
Contributions for 2004 include a lump sum of 750 million paid into the Main Fund in addition to the monthly contributions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 150 Notes on the accounts continued 3 Pension costs continued 2004 2003 2002 History of experience gains and losses m m m Difference between expected and actual return on scheme assets: Amount 411 872 2,645 Percentage of scheme assets 2.8% 6.8% 22.6% Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: Amount 631 7 25 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 3.6% 0.2% Total amount recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses: 150 Amount 1,598 69 2,392 Percentage of the present value of scheme liabilities 9.0% 0.5% 17.7% 4 Profit on ordinary activities before tax Profit on ordinary activities before tax is stated after taking account of the following: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Income Aggregate amounts receivable under finance leases, hire purchase and conditional sale contracts 1,345 1,161 1,342 Aggregate amounts receivable under operating leases 1,103 939 811 Profit on disposal of investment securities 167 172 85 Share of associated undertakings net profit 35 12 2 Expenses Operating lease rentals of premises 338 321 255 Operating lease rentals of computers and other equipment 15 13 16 Finance charges on leased assets 13 823 Interest on subordinated liabilities 681 551 659 Integration expenditure relating to: acquisition of NatWest 143 810 other acquisitions 269 86 147 Integration expenditure comprises: Staff costs 113 125 530 Premises and equipment 34 31 127 Other administrative expenses 120 73 298 Depreciation 2 2 269 229 957 Auditors remuneration Amounts paid to the auditors for statutory audit and other services were as follows: 2004 2003 m m Audit services Statutory audit 8.2 7.2 Audit related regulatory reporting 1.1 0.6 9.3 7.8 Further assurance services 3.0 5.7 Tax services Compliance services 0.2 0.1 Advisory services 0.2 0.5 0.4 0.6 Other services 3.0 0.7 Total 15.7 14.8 The auditors remuneration for statutory audit work for the company was 0.1 million 2003 0.1 million.
Nonaudit fees paid to the auditors and their associates in the UK was 6.4 million 2003 6.2 million.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 151 5 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2004 2003 2002 m m m Current taxation: UK corporation tax charge for the year at 30% 1,305 1,095 909 Over provision in respect of prior periods 66 66 13 Relief for overseas taxation 212 211 26 1,027 818 870 Overseas taxation: Current year charge 786 538 370 Over provision in respect of prior periods 102 11 2 151 1,711 1,345 1,238 Share of associated undertakings 11 22 Current tax charge for the year 1,722 1,347 1,240 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of timing differences 482 576 398 Over provision in respect of prior periods 49 35 56 Tax charge for the year 2,155 1,888 1,582 The actual tax charge differs from the expected tax charge computed by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 30% as follows: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Expected tax charge 2,075 1,823 1,456 Goodwill amortisation 241 200 183 Contributions to employee share schemes 32 35 40 Non-deductible items 227 248 179 Non-taxable items 251 207 188 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 415 626 340 Taxable foreign exchange movements 10 54 Foreign profits taxed at other rates 49 26 2 Unutilised losses brought forward and carried forward 6 15 Current taxation adjustments relating to prior periods 168 77 15 Current tax charge for the year 1,722 1,342 1,241 Deferred taxation: Origination and reversal of timing differences 482 581 397 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 49 35 56 Actual tax charge 2,155 1,888 1,582 The following factors may affect future tax charges: 1 No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted reserves of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings.
A substantial proportion of such reserves are required to be retained by the overseas undertakings to meet local regulatory requirements.
2 Deferred tax assets of 110 million 2003 127 million resulting from tax losses carried forward have not been recognised as there is insufficient evidence that the asset will be recoverable.
These assets may be recoverable if the losses can be offset against suitable future taxable profits arising in the same tax jurisdiction.
3 The fair values of certain financial assets are disclosed in Note 40.
The tax that could be payable if these assets were disposed of section at the values shown is estimated at 910 million 2003 561 million.
Because of the nature of these financial assets which are held 03 as part of the banking business, it is not possible to determine the amount that may become payable in the foreseeable future.
4 Freehold and long leasehold properties are revalued see Note 20.
No provision has been made for deferred tax on gains recognised on revaluing Group properties except where there is a commitment to sell the asset and any taxable gain will not be subject to rollover relief.
The tax that could be payable if these assets were disposed of at their revalued amount is estimated at 129 million 2003 109 million, including tax on rolled over gains see 5 below.
No such tax is expected to be payable in the foreseeable future.
5 No provision has been made for deferred tax on certain gains realised on disposals of property and other assets as there is an expectation of rolling over such gains into replacement assets.
Expenditure to date on valid replacement assets together with forecasts of future such expenditure indicate that these gains will be available for rollover relief.
The tax that could be payable if the conditions for rollover relief were not met is estimated at 16 million 2003 68 million.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 152 Notes on the accounts continued 6 Preference and Additional Value Shares dividends 2004 2003 2002 m m m Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 105 99 141 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$0.01 90 100 108 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 33 37 32 Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 4 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.25 1 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 15 15 15 11% cumulative preference shares of 1 1 152 5.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 2 Appropriation for premium payable on redemption and issue costs 9 10 8 Total preference dividends 256 261 305 Additional Value Shares 1,463 798 Total non-equity dividends 256 1,724 1,103 Notes: 1 Dividends for the year ended 31 December 2004 amounted to 55,000 2003 and 2002 55,000.
2 Dividends for the year ended 31 December 2004 amounted to 22,000 2003 and 2002 22,000.
7 Ordinary dividends 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 p per share p per share p per share m m m Interim 16.8 14.6 12.7 529 431 368 Proposed final 41.2 35.7 31.0 1,308 1,059 899 Total dividends on equity shares 58.0 50.3 43.7 1,837 1,490 1,267 8 Profit dealt with in the accounts of the company Of the profit attributable to shareholders, 2,878 million 2003 2,619 million: 2002 1,955 million has been dealt with in the accounts of the company.
9 Earnings per ordinary share The earnings per share are based on the following: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Earnings: Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,256 2,254 2,034 Add back dividends on dilutive convertible non-equity shares 66 Diluted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,322 2,254 2,034 Number of shares millions Number of ordinary shares: Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 3,085 2,931 2,881 Effect of dilutive share options and convertible non-equity shares 73 22 43 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares during the year 3,158 2,953 2,924 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 153 10 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 2004 2003 m m Treasury bills and similar securities 5,538 3,917 Other eligible bills 572 929 6,110 4,846 Banking business 3,189 2,977 Trading business 2,921 1,869 Treasury and other eligible bills are principally of short-term maturity and their market value is not materially different from carrying value.
153 11 Loans and advances to banks 2004 2003 m m Repayable on demand 19,430 17,115 Remaining maturity three months or less 26,112 25,525 one year or less but over three months 11,902 8,357 five years or less but over one year 266 422 over five years 556 479 58,266 51,898 Specific bad and doubtful debt provisions 6 7 58,260 51,891 Banking business 22,354 21,358 Trading business 35,906 30,533 section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 154 Notes on the accounts continued 12 Loans and advances to customers 2004 2003 m m On demand or short notice 51,234 24,847 Remaining maturity three months or less 89,784 64,281 one year or less but over three months 38,461 27,465 five years or less but over one year 53,543 40,908 over five years 116,669 98,952 349,691 256,453 General and specific bad and doubtful debt provisions 4,222 3,922 154 345,469 252,531 Banking business 283,233 223,456 Trading business 62,236 29,075 Amounts above include: Subordinated advances 220 73 Amounts receivable under finance leases 9,968 8,405 Amounts receivable under hire purchase and conditional sale agreements 6,358 5,935 The cost of assets acquired during the year for the purpose of letting under finance leases and hire purchase agreements was 5,937 million 2003 6,361 million.
The Groups exposure to risk from its lending activities is widely diversified both geographically and industrially.
Lending to the services sector, house mortgage lending, loans to financial institutions, other personal loans and lending to property companies exceeded 10% of total loans and advances to customers before provisions.
Residual value exposures The table below gives details of the unguaranteed residual values included in the carrying value of finance lease receivables see above and operating lease assets see Note 20.
Year in which the residual value will be recovered After 1 year After 2 years Within but within but within After 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total 2004 m m m m m Operating leases Transportation 69 387 1,260 2,603 4,319 Cars and light commercial vehicles 405 141 117 663 Other 14 19 65 11 109 Finance leases 34 33 70 355 492 At 31 December 2004 522 580 1,512 2,969 5,583 Year in which the residual value will be recovered After 1 year After 2 years Within but within but within After 1 year 2 years 5 years 5 years Total 2003 m m m m m Operating leases Transportation 548 198 481 2,344 3,571 Cars and light commercial vehicles 313 128 120 561 Other 11 21 54 96 182 Finance leases 62 21 85 158 326 At 31 December 2003 934 368 740 2,598 4,640 Linked presentation third-party providers of funding.
They have agreed in writing i Leveraged leases as part of the purchase of Charter One, that they will be paid, as to interest and principal, only out of the Group acquired a portfolio of lease receivables that qualify lease cash flows.
At 31 December 2004, the gross value of as leveraged leases under US GAAP.
Leveraged leases involve leveraged leases amounted to 1,897 million and non-recourse the Group as lessor obtaining non-recourse funding from third financing received was 1,502 million.
During the year the parties.
This financing is secured on the underlying leases and Group recognised net income of 13 million comprising the provider of the finance has no recourse whatsoever to the interest receivable of 35 million less interest payable and other assets of the Group.
The Group is not obliged, and does other expenses of 22 million.
not intend, to support losses that may be suffered by these Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 155 ii Mortgage securitisations following the acquisition of First During the year the Group recognised net income of 37 million Active in 2004, the Group is party to a number of mortgage 2003 39 million: 2002 40 million comprising interest securitisations that qualify for linked presentation.
Mortgages receivable of 116 million 2003 119 million: 2002 118 have been transferred to special purpose vehicles, held million less interest payable and other expenses of 79 million ultimately by charitable trusts, funded principally through the 2003 80 million: 2002 78 million.
issue of floating rate notes.
The Group is not obliged, and does not intend, to support losses that may be suffered by the note iv Mortgage banking activities - the Group sells originated holders.
There are no arrangements for the Group to mortgage loans to US Agencies in return for securities repurchase the mortgages.
The note holders have agreed that backed by these loans and guaranteed by the Agency whilst they will be paid, as to interest and principal, only to the extent retaining the rights to service the mortgages.
These securities 155 that sufficient funds are generated by the mortgage loans and may be subsequently sold.
The purchaser has recourse to the their underlying security.
The Group has entered into arm's Group for losses up to pre-determined levels on certain length fixed floating interest rate swaps with the securitisation designated mortgages.
The Group is not obliged, and does vehicles and provides mortgage management and agency not intend, to support losses that may be suffered by the services to the vehicles.
On repayment of the financing, any Agencies.
Under the terms of the sale agreements, the further amounts generated by the mortgages will be paid to Agencies have agreed to seek repayment only from the cash the Group.
At 31 December 2004, mortgages of 1,519 million from the mortgage loans.
Once the securities exchanged for the are subject to non-recourse finance of 1,479 million.
During loans have been sold the Group's exposure is restricted to the the year the Group recognised net income of 26 million amount of the recourse and the transaction qualifies for the comprising interest receivable of 72 million less interest linked presentation.
At 31 December 2004 mortgages payable and other expenses of 46 million.
amounting to 472 million had been sold with recourse and the related securities sold.
Recourse is limited to a maximum iii Securitisation of housing association loans the Group has of 6 million.
No amounts were recognised in the profit and loss arranged the securitisation of housing association loans.
The account except for income from the servicing of the mortgages.
loans were acquired by special purpose vehicles, held ultimately by charitable trusts, funded principally through the issue of v Loan transfer during 2004, loans originated by the Group floating and fixed rate notes.
The Group is not obliged, and and another bank were transferred to a special purpose does not intend, to support losses that may be suffered by the vehicle which funded the purchase through the issue of notes.
The note holders have agreed that they will be The Group is not obliged, and does not intend, to support paid, as to interest and principal, only to the extent that sufficient losses that may be suffered by the note holders.
There are no funds are generated by the loans and their underlying security.
arrangements for the Group to repurchase the loan.
The note Any proceeds from the loans in excess of the amounts required holders have agreed that they will be paid, as to interest and to service and repay the notes are payable to the Group after principal, only to the extent that sufficient funds are generated deduction of expenses.
At 31 December 2004, gross loans by the loans.
At 31 December 2004, the gross loan amounted amounted to 1,412 million 2003 1,450 million and notes to 301 million and the non-recourse financing of 301 million.
held by third parties were 1,012 million 2003 861 million.
Gross and net income in 2004 were less than 1 million.
13 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 2004 2003 Specific General Total Specific General Total m m m m m m At 1 January 3,363 566 3,929 3,330 597 3,927 Currency translation and other adjustments 22 76 98 23 39 62 Acquisition of subsidiary 222 68 290 44 6 50 Amounts written off 1,468 1,468 1,519 1,519 Recoveries of amounts written off in previous periods 147 147 72 72 Charge to profit and loss account 1,412 16 1,428 1,459 2 1,461 section At 31 December 3,654 574 4,228 3,363 566 3,929 03 14 Interest in suspense In certain cases, interest may be charged to a customers account but, because its recoverability is in doubt, not recognised in the Groups consolidated profit and loss account.
Such interest is held in a suspense account and netted off against loans and advances in the consolidated balance sheet.
2004 2003 m m Loans and advances on which interest is being placed in suspense: before specific provisions 2,558 1,938 after specific provisions 1,203 930 Loans and advances on which interest is not being applied: before specific provisions 2,225 2,494 after specific provisions 850 980 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 156 Notes on the accounts continued 15 Debt securities Gross Gross Gross Gross 2004 unrecognised unrecognised 2004 2003 unrecognised unrecognised 2003 Book value gains losses Valuation Book value gains losses Valuation m m m m m m m m Investment securities: UK government 760 2 22 740 1,516 1 5 1,512 Other government 14,138 85 44 14,179 12,442 101 105 12,438 Other public sector bodies 309 1 310 422 4 426 Bank and building society 9,319 3 4 9,318 11,690 4 7 11,687 Other issuers 10,537 78 285 10,330 15,464 130 302 15,292 156 35,063 169 355 34,877 41,534 240 419 41,355 Other debt securities: UK government 1,502 1,502 1,246 1,246 Other government 12,457 12,457 10,819 10,819 Other public sector bodies 37 37 36 36 Bank and building society 604 604 407 407 Other issuers 41,548 41,548 25,907 25,907 56,148 56,148 38,415 38,415 91,211 91,025 79,949 79,770 Due within one year 18,060 16,943 Due one year and over 73,151 63,006 91,211 79,949 Investment securities: Listed 25,201 25,198 33,067 33,001 Unlisted 9,862 9,679 8,467 8,354 35,063 34,877 41,534 41,355 Other debt securities: Listed 28,714 28,714 16,307 16,307 Unlisted 27,434 27,434 22,108 22,108 91,211 91,025 79,949 79,770 Banking business 36,485 42,374 Trading business 54,726 37,575 Amounts above include: Subordinated debt securities 664 890 Unamortised discounts less premiums on investment securities 1 3 The cost of securities carried at market value is not disclosed because it cannot be determined without unreasonable expense.
Movements in debt securities which are held as investment securities were as follows: Discounts and Cost premiums Provisions Book value m m m m At 1 January 2004 41,440 216 122 41,534 Currency translation and other adjustments 1,610 18 2 1,626 Additions 41,217 41,217 Acquisition of subsidiaries 4,013 6 4,007 Maturities and disposals 42,529 48 10 42,567 Provisions made net of write backs 71 71 Transfers to other debt securities 7,429 6 1 7,422 Amortisation of discounts and premiums 9 9 Amounts written off 16 16 At 31 December 2004 35,086 141 164 35,063 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 157 The following table categorises the Groups investment debt securities by maturity and yield based on weighted averages at 31 December 2004: After 1 but After 5 but Within 1 year within 5 years within 10 years After 10 years Total Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield m % m % m % m % m % UK government 61 8.2 489 5.9 184 5.7 26 2.5 760 5.9 US treasury and other US government 254 1.4 326 2.2 944 2.6 11,185 3.0 12,709 3.0 Other government 442 1.7 617 3.9 314 3.8 4 5.7 1,377 3.2 Securities issued by the states of the US 18 4.9 16 4.1 18 3.4 52 4.1 Other public sector bodies 99 1.0 8 4.6 202 2.0 309 1.7 157 Corporate debt securities 750 3.5 982 3.8 227 4.0 224 4.9 2,183 3.8 Mortgage-backed securities 12 2.5 211 7.0 1,168 3.4 3,473 4.1 4,864 4.1 Bank and building society 8,158 5.2 1,089 3.4 44 5.0 28 5.3 9,319 5.0 Other 1,768 4.0 1,421 5.4 221 2.5 80 2.1 3,490 4.5 Total book value 11,544 4.6 5,161 4.4 3,320 3.2 15,038 3.3 35,063 3.9 Total fair value 11,297 5,201 3,288 15,091 34,877 Gross gains of 101 million 2003 158 million and gross losses of 30 million 2003 47 million were realised on the sale and redemption of investment debt securities.
16 Equity shares Gross Gross Gross Gross 2004 unrecognised unrecognised 2004 2003 unrecognised unrecognised 2003 Book value gains losses Valuation Book value gains losses Valuation m m m m m m m m Investment securities: Listed 1,213356 78 1,491 1,157 350 88 1,419 Unlisted 1,227 169 5 1,391 664 174 19 819 2,440 525 83 2,882 1,821 524 107 2,238 Other securities: Listed 519519 465 465 Unlisted 1 1 14 14 2,960 525 83 3,402 2,300 524 107 2,717 Banking business 2,474 1,872 Trading business 486 428 The cost of securities carried at market value is not disclosed because it cannot be determined without unreasonable expense.
Movements in equity shares which are held as investment securities were as follows: Cost Provisions Book value m m m At 1 January 2004 1,940 119 1,821 Currency translation and other adjustments 61 5 56 Additions 573 573 Acquisition of subsidiaries 381 381 Disposals 288 288 section Amounts written off 10 10 Provisions made net of write backs 12 12 03 Transfers 21 21 At 31 December 2004 2,556 116 2,440 Gross gains of 96 million 2003 68 million and gross losses of nil 2003 7 million were realised on the sale of investment equity shares.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 158 Notes on the accounts continued 17 Shares in Group undertakings Movements in shares in Group undertakings during the year were as follows: m At 1 January 2004 32,354 Currency translation adjustments 399 Additions 6,802 Revaluation 1,887 At 31 December 2004 36,870 On the historical cost basis, shares in Group undertakings at 31 December 2004 would have been included at a cost of 158 22,301 million 2003 15,499 million.
The principal subsidiary undertakings of the company are shown below.
Their capital consists of ordinary and preference shares which are unlisted with the exception of certain preference shares issued by NatWest.
The Royal Bank and RBS Insurance Group Limited are directly owned by the company, and all of the other subsidiary undertakings are owned directly, or indirectly through intermediate holding companies, by these companies and are all wholly-owned.
All of these subsidiaries are included in the Groups consolidated financial statements and have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
Country of incorporation Nature of and principal business area of operation The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Banking Great Britain National Westminster Bank Plc 1 Banking Great Britain Citizens Financial Group, Inc. Banking US Coutts & Co 2 Private banking Great Britain Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc.
Broker dealer US RBS Insurance Group Limited Insurance Great Britain Ulster Bank Limited 3 Banking Northern Ireland Notes: 1 The company does not hold any of the NatWest preference shares in issue.
2 Coutts & Co is incorporated with unlimited liability.
Its registered office is 440 Strand, London WC2R 0Q5.
3 Ulster Bank Limited and its subsidiary undertakings also operate in the Republic of Ireland.
The above information is provided in relation to the principal related undertakings as permitted by Section 231 5 of the Companies Act 1985.
Full information on all related undertakings will be included in the Annual Return filed with the UK Companies House.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 159 18 Loans to Group undertakings Movements during the year: m At 1 January 2004 4,554 Currency translation and other adjustments 216 Additions 350 Repayments 587 At 31 December 2004 4,101 19 Intangible fixed assets 159 Goodwill m Cost: At 1 January 2004 15,758 Currency translation and other adjustments 558 Arising on acquisitions during the year 5,899 Disposals 20 At 31 December 2004 21,079 Amortisation: At 1 January 2004 2,627 Currency translation and other adjustments 35 Charge for the year 915 Disposals 4 At 31 December 2004 3,503 Net book value at 31 December 2004 17,576 Net book value at 31 December 2003 13,131 section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 160 Notes on the accounts continued 20 Tangible fixed assets Long Short Computers Assets on Freehold leasehold leasehold and other operating premises premises premises equipment leases Total m m m m m m Cost or valuation: At 1 January 2004 5,217 1,346 655 2,911 7,548 17,677 Currency translation and other adjustments 18 10 41 185 254 Reclassifications 1 5 5 9 Acquisition of subsidiaries 152 32 41 133 487 845 Additions 589 21 212 691 2,841 4,354 Disposals and write-off of fully depreciated assets 302 21 48 136 1,352 1,859 160 Revaluation adjustments 16 2 18 At 31 December 2004 5,655 1,375 845 3,567 9,339 20,781 Consisting of: At valuation 2004 2,754 1,129 3,883 At valuation 2003 and prior 821 134 955 At cost 2,080 112 845 3,567 9,339 15,943 5,655 1,375 845 3,567 9,339 20,781 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation: At 1 January 2004 407 94 250 1,805 1,194 3,750 Currency translation and other adjustments 1 3 3 17 29 47 Reclassifications 2 2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5 14 28 47 Disposals and write-off of fully depreciated assets 19 2 4 56 251 332 Charge for the year 60 11 42 355 639 1,107 Revaluation adjustments 19 19 38 At 31 December 2004 428 92 283 2,103 1,581 4,487 Net book value at 31 December 2004 5,227 1,283 562 1,464 7,758 16,294 Net book value at 31 December 2003 4,810 1,252 405 1,106 6,354 13,927 On the historical cost basis, the Groups freehold and long leasehold premises would have been included at 6,249 million 2003 5,886 million.
Freehold and long leasehold properties are revalued on a rolling basis, each property being valued at least every five years.
Interim valuations outwith the five year cycle are carried out on properties where there is an indication that their value has changed significantly, given market conditions.
The directors are not aware of any material change in the valuation of the Groups properties and therefore no additional interim valuations were required.
Properties occupied by the Group are valued on the basis of Existing Use Value, except for certain specialised properties which are valued on a Depreciated Replacement Cost basis.
Investment properties and properties to be disposed of are valued to reflect Open Market Value.
Valuations are carried out by internal and external qualified surveyors who are members of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors or, in the case of some overseas properties, locally qualified valuers.
2004 2003 Net book value: m m Land and buildings occupied for own use 2,768 2,391 Investment properties 3,715 3,628 Properties under development 570 429 Properties to be disposed of 19 19 7,072 6,467 Net book value of assets held under finance leases 18 90 Depreciation for the year of assets held under finance leases 2 20 Contracts for future capital expenditure not provided for in the accounts at the year end Premises and equipment 406 104 Assets on operating leases 196 498 602 602 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 161 21 Other assets 2004 2003 m m Trading derivatives see Note 39 17,884 14,087 Other 4,371 3,720 22,255 17,807 restated see page 139 22 Long-term assurance business The long-term assurance assets and liabilities attributable to policyholders comprise: 161 2004 2003 m m Investments 4,309 4,005 Value of in-force policies 418 413 4,727 4,418 Long-term assurance business attributable to shareholders 927 861 3,800 3,557 The increase in the shareholders interest in the long-term assurance business included in the profit and loss account is calculated as follows: 2004 2003 m m Increase in value for the year before tax 94 73 Tax 28 22 Increase in value for the year after tax 66 51 The value of the long-term assurance business is calculated by discounting estimated future flows of statutory profits from in-force business at a discount rate that includes a risk margin.
The future flows are based on prudent assumptions about long-term economic and business experience determined with the advice of qualified actuaries.
The risk margin is designed to reflect uncertainties in expected future flows.
The key assumptions used are: 2004 2003 % % Risk discount rate net of tax 8.0 8.5 Growth of unit-linked funds gross of tax 6.9 6.7 Growth of non-unit-linked funds gross of tax 4.7 5.0 Basic tax rate 20.0 20.0 Shareholder taxation life 30.0 30.0 Expense inflation 3.5 3.5 23 Deposits by banks 2004 2003 m m Repayable on demand 30,279 20,995 With agreed maturity dates or periods of notice, by remaining maturity three months or less 53,296 42,300 one year or less but over three months 10,474 2,268 section five years or less but over one year 3,675 122 over five years 1,357 1,638 03 99,081 67,323 Banking business 59,399 41,061 Trading business 39,682 26,262 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 162 Notes on the accounts continued 24 Customer accounts 2004 2003 m m Repayable on demand 193,988 160,574 With agreed maturity dates or periods of notice, by remaining maturity three months or less 66,542 64,797 one year or less but over three months 15,502 7,608 five years or less but over one year 7,803 3,288 over five years 1,227 696 285,062 236,963 162 Banking business 243,929 210,925 Trading business 41,133 26,038 25 Debt securities in issue 2004 2003 m m Bonds and medium term notes, by remaining maturity one year or less 7,736 2,227 two years or less but over one year 3,034 1,063 five years or less but over two years 3,606 3,614 over five years 1,328 3,525 15,704 10,429 Other debt securities in issue, by remaining maturity three months or less 31,849 23,414 one year or less but over three months 9,786 6,188 two years or less but over one year 1,598 977 five years or less but over two years 23 8 43,256 30,587 58,960 41,016 Banking business 57,200 39,899 Trading business 1,760 1,117 26 Settlement balances and short positions 2004 2003 m m Settlement balances 4,067 2,241 Short positions: Debt securities Government 24,619 16,631 Debt securities Other issuers 4,002 2,423 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 302 74 32,990 21,369 27 Other liabilities 2004 2003 m m Notes in circulation 1,351 1,394 Trading derivatives see Note 39 19,034 15,173 Current taxation 677 700 Dividends 1,357 1,105 Other liabilities 3,733 2,212 26,152 20,584 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 163 28 Deferred taxation Provision for deferred taxation has been made as follows: 2004 2003 m m Deferred tax liability 2,873 2,036 Deferred tax asset included in Note 21, Other assets 47 48 Net deferred tax 2,826 1,988 2004 2003 m m Short-term timing differences 56 49 163 Capital allowances 3,248 2,440 Bad and doubtful debt provisions 399 441 Deferred gains 33 38 Net deferred tax 2,826 1,988 Movements during the year: m As previously reported 2,238 Prior year adjustment arising on implementation of FRS 17 250 At 1 January 2004 as restated 1,988 Currency translation and other adjustments 66 Acquisition of subsidiaries 514 Disposal of lease receivables 43 Charge to profit and loss account 433 At 31 December 2004 2,826 The deferred taxation balance at 31 December 2004 does not include any amounts in respect of the Groups post-retirement benefit liabilities which is shown on the balance sheet after deduction of a deferred taxation asset of 995 million 2003 566 million see Note 3.
The opening provision for deferred taxation has been restated following implementation of FRS 17 see page 139.
29 Other provisions Pensions and other similar Property 1 obligations Other 2 Total m m m m As previously reported 179 43 34 256 Prior year adjustment arising on implementation of FRS 17 43 43 At 1 January 2004 as restated 179 34 213 Acquisition of subsidiaries 12 12 Charge to profit and loss account 18 2 20 Provisions utilised 33 14 47 At 31 December 2004 164 34 198 Notes: 1 The Group has a number of leasehold properties where rents payable and other unavoidable costs exceed the value to the Group.
Such costs arise over the period of the lease or to the expected termination date, and the provision has been discounted due to the long-term nature of certain of these obligations.
2 Other provisions arise in the normal course of business.
section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 164 Notes on the accounts continued 30 Dated loan capital 2004 2003 m m The company 200 million floating rate minimum 5.25% notes 2005 1,2 40 80 US$400 million 6.4% subordinated notes 2009 1 206 223 US$300 million 6.375% subordinated notes 2011 1 154 166 US$750 million 5% subordinated notes 2013 385 416 US$750 million 5% subordinated notes 2014 1 385 417 US$250 million 5% subordinated notes 2014 1 127 137 US$675 million 5.05% subordinated notes 2015 issued December 2004 3 347 164 US$350 million 4.7% subordinated notes 2018 1 180 195 1,824 1,634 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 125 million subordinated floating rate notes 2005 4 125 125 150 million 8.375% subordinated notes 2007 150 149 DEM500 million redesignated 255 million 5.25% subordinated notes 2008 180 180 300 million 4.875% subordinated notes 2009 211 211 US$150 million floating rate notes 2009 5 84 35 million floating rate step-up subordinated notes 2010 35 35 US$350 million floating rate subordinated notes 2012 181 196 130 million floating rate subordinated notes 2012 92 92 US$500 million floating rate subordinated notes 2012 258 280 150 million 10.5% subordinated bonds 2013 6 150 149 1,000 million 6.0% subordinated notes 2013 699 700 500 million 6.0% subordinated notes 2013 360 362 US$50 million floating rate subordinated notes 2013 26 28 1,000 million floating rate subordinated notes 2013 callable October 2008 704 705 US$1,250 million floating rate subordinated notes 2014 issued May 2004: callable July 2009 7 646 A$590 million 6.0% subordinated notes 2014 issued October 2004: callable October 2009 8 238 A$410 million floating rate subordinated notes 2014 issued October 2004: callable October 2009 9 165 250 million 9.625% subordinated bonds 2015 248 248 750 million 4.875% subordinated notes 2015 528 529 US$500 million floating rate subordinated notes 2016 issued October 2004: callable October 2011 10 258 500 million 4.5% subordinated notes 2016 callable January 2011 351 351 100 million floating rate subordinated notes 2017 71 70 US$125.6 million floating rate subordinated notes 2020 65 70 1,000 million 4.625% subordinated notes 2021 issued September 2004: callable September 2016 11 695 RBSG Capital Corporation US$250 million 10.125% guaranteed capital notes 2004 12 140 National Westminster Bank Plc 100 million 12.5% subordinated unsecured loan stock 2004 13 104 US$400 million guaranteed floating rate capital notes 2005 206 223 US$1,000 million 7.375% subordinated notes 2009 513 553 US$650 million floating rate subordinated step-up notes 2009 14 366 600 million 6.0% subordinated notes 2010 420 419 300 million 8.125% step-up subordinated notes 2011 callable December 2006 301 303 500 million 5.125% subordinated notes 2011 346 341 300 million 7.875% subordinated notes 2015 304 309 300 million 6.5% subordinated notes 2021 296 297 Greenwich Capital Holdings, Inc. US$105 million subordinated loan capital 2004 floating rate notes 59 US$105 million subordinated loan capital 2006 floating rate notes 54 Charter One Financial, Inc. 15 US$400 million 6.375% subordinated notes 2012 226 First Active plc 16 US$35 million 7.24% subordinated bonds 2012 callable December 2007 22 60 million 6.375% subordinated bonds 2018 callable April 2013 65 11,013 9,312 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 165 2004 2003 m m Dated loan capital in issue, by remaining maturity is repayable as follows: in one year or less 371 709 in two years or less but over one year 355 388 in five years or less but over two years 3,035 1,337 in more than five years 7,252 6,878 11,013 9,312 In addition, the company issued 1.25 million subordinated loan notes of 1,000 each in June 2002, 750,000 subordinated loan notes of US$1,000 each 165 in December 2002, 850,000 subordinated loan notes of US$1,000 each in May 2003, 650,000 subordinated loan notes of US$1,000 each in December 2003, 1.5 million subordinated loan notes of US$1,000 each in August 2004 and 450,000 subordinated loan notes of US$1,000 each in September 2004 to subsidiaries of the Group.
These loan notes are included in the company balance sheet within loan capital but are reclassified as non-equity minority interests on consolidation see Note 32.
Notes: 1 On-lent to The Royal Bank of Scotland plc on a subordinated basis.
2 Repayable in five equal annual instalments in May in each of the years 2001 to 2005.
3 Net proceeds received US$672 million, 349 million.
4 Repayable in whole, at the option of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, prior to maturity, on conditions governing the respective debt obligation, including prior approval of the UK Financial Services Authority.
6 Unconditionally guaranteed by the company.
7 Net proceeds received US$1,250 million, 698 million.
8 Net proceeds received A$589 million, 240 million.
9 Net proceeds received A$409 million, 167 million.
10 Net proceeds received US$500 million, 278 million.
11 Net proceeds received 986 million, 673 million.
15 Arising from acquisition of Charter One.
16 Arising from acquisition of First Active.
17 In the event of certain changes in the tax laws of the UK, all of the dated loan capital issues are redeemable in whole, but not in part, at the option of the issuer, at the principal amount thereof plus accrued interest, subject to prior approval of the UK Financial Services Authority.
18 Except as stated above, claims in respect of the Groups dated loan capital are subordinated to the claims of other creditors.
None of the Groups dated loan capital is secured.
19 Interest payable on the Groups floating rate dated issues is at a margin over London interbank rates.
Interest on 1,450 million, US$4,425 million, 5,405 million and A$590 million of fixed rate dated issues is swapped into floating rates at a margin over London interbank rates.
section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 166 Notes on the accounts continued 31 Undated loan capital including convertible debt 2004 2003 m m The company US$350 million undated floating rate primary capital notes callable on any interest payment date 1,2 181 196 US$200 million 8.5% exchangeable capital securities, Series A callable June 2004 1,3 103 112 US$50 million undated 7.993% capital securities callable November 2005 1 26 28 US$35 million undated 7.755% capital securities callable December 2005 1 18 19 US$200 million undated 7.375% reset capital securities callable April 2006 1 103 112 US$75 million floating rate perpetual capital securities callable September 2007 1 39 42 US$850 million 5.75% exchangeable capital securities, Series B 4 464 US$1,200 million 7.648% perpetual regulatory tier one securities callable September 2031 1,5 615 666 166 1,085 1,639 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 125 million 9.25% undated subordinated step-up notes callable April 2006 125 125 150 million undated subordinated floating rate step-up notes callable March 2007 150 150 FRF1,000 million redesignated 152 million 5.875% undated subordinated notes callable October 2008 107 107 175 million 7.375% undated subordinated notes callable August 2010 174 173 350 million 6.25% undated subordinated notes callable December 2012 348 348 500 million 5.125% subordinated notes issued July 2004: callable July 2014 6 350 1,000 million floating rate subordinated notes issued July 2004: callable July 2014 7 701 500 million 6.0% subordinated notes issued June 2004: callable September 2014 8 496 500 million 5.125% undated subordinated notes callable March 2016 491 491 200 million 9.5% undated subordinated bonds callable August 2018 9 198 198 600 million 5.5% subordinated notes issued December 2004: callable December 2019 10 595 500 million 6.2% undated subordinated notes callable March 2022 497 497 300 million 5.625% undated subordinated notes callable September 2026 298 298 200 million 5.625% undated subordinated notes callable September 2026 210 211 400 million 5.625% undated subordinated notes callable September 2026 397 396 350 million 5.625% undated subordinated notes callable June 2032 346 346 150 million 5.625% undated subordinated notes callable June 2032 144 144 JPY25 billion 2.605% subordinated notes issued November 2004: callable November 2034 11 126 National Westminster Bank Plc US$500 million primary capital floating rate notes, Series A callable on any interest payment date 258 280 US$500 million primary capital floating rate notes, Series B callable on any interest payment date 258 280 US$500 million primary capital floating rate notes, Series C callable on any interest payment date 258 280 US$500 million 7.875% exchangeable capital securities callable on any interest payment date 12 258 280 US$500 million 7.75% reset subordinated notes callable October 2007 255 275 100 million floating rate undated subordinated step-up notes callable October 2009 71 70 400 million 6.625% fixed floating rate undated subordinated notes callable October 2009 280 280 325 million 7.625% undated subordinated step-up notes callable January 2010 329 330 200 million 7.125% undated subordinated step-up notes callable October 2022 203 203 200 million 11.5% undated subordinated notes callable December 2022 13 281 285 First Active plc 14 20 million 11.75% perpetual tier two capital 24 IR30 million 11.375% perpetual tier two capital 38 1.3 million floating rate perpetual tier two capital 2 9,353 7,686 Notes: 1 On-lent to The Royal Bank of Scotland plc on a subordinated basis.
2 Interest is payable at a rate of 0.25% per annum over an average calculated by reference to six month euro dollar deposits in London for each interest period.
3 Redeemable in certain circumstances related to changes in the tax laws of the UK, in whole or in part, at the option of the company on any interest payment date.
Exchangeable, in whole or in part, at the option of the company on any interest payment date, or in certain circumstances related to changes in the tax laws of the UK, in whole but not in part, into the companys non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each.
4 Exchanged for 34 million non-cumulative dollar preference shares of US0.01, Series L on 30 September 2004.
5 Redeemable by the company on or after 30 September 2031 or on any interest payment date thereafter or at any time on the occurrence of certain events, subject to the prior approval of the UK Financial Services Authority.
Interest on the PROs is payable semi-annually in arrears at a fixed rate of 7.648% per annum until 30 September 2031 and thereafter quarterly in arrears at a variable rate of 2.5% per annum above three month dollar LIBOR.
The company can satisfy interest payment obligations by issuing ordinary shares to appointed Trustees sufficient to enable them, on selling these shares, to settle the interest payment.
6 Net proceeds received 496 million, 334 million.
7 Net proceeds received 994 million, 668 million.
11 Net proceeds received JPY25 billion, 127 million.
12 Exchangeable at the option of the issuer into 20 million 8.75% gross non-cumulative preference shares of US$25 each of National Westminster Bank Plc at any time.
13 Exchangeable at the option of the issuer into 200 million 8.392% gross non-cumulative preference shares of 1 each of National Westminster Bank Plc at any time.
14 Arising from acquisition of First Active.
15 Except as stated above, claims in respect of the Group's undated loan capital are subordinated to the claims of other creditors.
None of the Group's undated loan capital is secured.
16 Except as stated above, interest payable on Group floating rate undated issues is at a margin over London interbank rates.
Interest on 4,875 million, US$1,668 million, 1,052 million and JPY25 billion of fixed rate undated issues is swapped into floating rates at a margin over London interbank rates.
17 Where the issuer has the ability to redeem the undated loan capital, this is subject to prior approval of the UK Financial Services Authority.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 167 32 Minority interests non-equity 2004 2003 m m Non-equity shares issued by NatWest: Non-cumulative preference shares of US$25 1 278 299 Non-cumulative preference shares of 1 2 166 166 444 465 Non-equity shares issued by other subsidiaries: Non-cumulative trust preferred securities of 1,000 3 875 875 Non-cumulative trust preferred securities of US$1,000 3 2,152 1,245 Other non-equity minority interests 200 139 167 Total 3,671 2,724 Notes: 1 The US$250 million non-cumulative preference shares, Series B, of US$25 each carry a gross dividend of 8.75% inclusive of associated tax credit.
They are redeemable at the option of NatWest at US$25 per share.
The US$300 million non-cumulative preference shares, Series C, of US$25 each carry a gross dividend of 8.625% inclusive of associated tax credit.
They are redeemable at the option of NatWest from 9 April 2002 to 8 April 2008 inclusive, at a premium per share of US$0.60 in 2005 reducing by US$0.30 in each successive year.
There is no redemption premium if the date of redemption falls after 8 April 2007.
2 The 140 million 9% non-cumulative preference shares, Series A, of 1 each are non-redeemable.
3 Wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Group have issued the following non-cumulative trust preferred securities: Number Distribution Redemption of securities rate per Distribution Redemption date price per Issue in issue annum frequency on or after security Trust preferred securities of 1.000 1,250,000 6,467% Annually 30 June 2012 1,000 Trust preferred securities of US$1.000 750,000 6.8% Quarterly 31 March 2008 US$1,000 Trust preferred securities of US$1.000 850,000 4.709% Semi-annually 1 July 2013 US$1,000 Trust preferred securities of US$1.000 650,000 6.425% Semi-annually 3 January 2034 US$1,000 Trust preferred securities of US$1.000 950,000 5.512% Semi-annually 30 September 2014 US$1,000 Trust preferred securities of US$1.000 1,000,000 0.80% above Quarterly 30 September 2014 US$1,000 three month US$ LIBOR These securities have no maturity date and are not redeemable at the option of the holders at any time.
The securities may, with the consent of the FSA, be redeemed, in whole or in part, by the issuer on the dates specified above or on any interest payment date thereafter.
They may also be redeemed in whole, but not in part, upon the occurrence of certain tax and regulatory events.
issued in 2004, net proceeds received US$941 million 523 million and US$994 552 million, respectively.
4 Minority interests in the consolidated profit and loss account includes 138 million 2003 127 million: 2002 67 million in respect of non-equity interests.
33 Share capital Allotted, called up and fully paid Authorised 1 January Issued during 31 December 31 December 31 December 2004 the year 2004 2004 2003 m m m m m Equity shares Ordinary shares of 25p 740 53 793 1,020 1,020 Non-voting deferred shares of 0.01 27 27 323 323 Total equity share capital 767 53 820 1,343 1,343 Non-equity shares Additional Value Shares of 0.01 27 27 section Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 1 1 2 2 03 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$0.01 Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.25 225 225 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 Cumulative preference shares of 1 1 1 1 1 Non-cumulative preference shares of 1 300 300 Total non-equity share capital 2 2 555 555 Total share capital 769 53 822 1,898 1,898 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 168 Notes on the accounts continued 33 Share capital continued Allotted, called up and fully paid Authorised Number of shares thousands 2004 2003 2004 2003 Equity shares Ordinary shares of 25p 3,172,605 2,963,335 4,079,375 4,079,375 Non-voting deferred shares of 0.01 2,660,556 2,660,556 32,300,000 32,300,000 Non-equity shares Additional Value Shares of 0.01 2,700,000 2,700,000 Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 153,000 82,000 348,500 238,500 168 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$0.01 1,900 1,900 3,900 3,900 Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 1,250 66,000 66,000 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 750 750 3,000 3,000 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.25 900,000 900,000 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 200 200 1,000 1,000 Cumulative preference shares of 1 900 900 900 900 Non-cumulative preference shares of 1 300,000 300,000 Ordinary shares In addition, options granted under the NatWest schemes were The following issues of ordinary shares were made during the outstanding in respect of 1.6 million ordinary shares year to 31 December 2004: exercisable up to 2009 at prices ranging from 373p to 924p per share.
As permitted by UITF 17 Employee share schemes a 165 million ordinary shares were placed at an issue price applicable to SAYE schemes, no cost has been recognised in of 16.20 per share: respect of sharesave options.
b 12.9 million ordinary shares following the exercise of Preference shares options under the companys executive, sharesave and In August 2004, the company issued 37 million Series M nonoption 2000 schemes and a further 5.6 million ordinary cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each at US$25 per shares in respect of the exercise of options under the share, the net proceeds being US$896 million.
NatWest executive and sharesave schemes which had been exchanged for options over the companys shares In September 2004, the company exchanged all of the following the acquisition of NatWest: outstanding US$850 million 5.75% exchangeable capital securities, Series B, into 34 million Series L non-cumulative c 23.4 million ordinary shares in lieu of cash in respect of preference shares of US$0.01 each, at US$25 per share.
the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2003 and the interim dividend for the year ended 31 December In November 2004, the company issued 1.25 million Series 1 2004: and non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each at 1,000 per share, the net proceeds being 1,225 million.
d 2.4 million ordinary shares under the companys profit sharing share ownership scheme.
Consideration of 2,845 million was received on the issue of ordinary shares for cash and dividends of 394 million were satisfied by the issue of shares.
During the year to 31 December 2004, options were granted over 16.7 million ordinary shares under the companys executive, sharesave and option 2000 schemes.
At 31 December 2004, options granted under the companys various schemes, exercisable up to 2014 at prices ranging from 461p to 1841p per share, were outstanding in respect of 70.1 million ordinary shares.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 169 Non-cumulative preference shares Non-cumulative preference shares entitle the holders thereof to receive periodic non-cumulative cash dividends at specified fixed rates for each Series payable out of distributable profits of the company.
The non-cumulative preference shares are redeemable at the option of the company, in whole or in part from time to time at the rates detailed below plus dividends otherwise payable for the then current dividend period accrued to the date of redemption.
Number RedemptionRedemption of shares date on price Class of preference share Series in issue or after per share Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 Series D 7 million 14 September 2005 US$25.00 169 Series E 8 million 17 October 2006 US$25.00 Series F 8 million 31 March 2007 US$25.00 Series G 10 million 31 March 2003 US$25.00 Series H 12 million 31 March 2004 US$25.00 Series I 12 million 30 September 2004 US$25.00 Series J 9 million 31 December 2004 US$25.00 Series K 16 million 30 June 2006 US$25.00 Series L 34 million 30 September 2009 US$25.00 Series M 37 million 30 September 2009 US$25.00 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$0.01 Series 1 1 million 31 March 2010 US$1,000 Series 2 0.5 million 31 March 2005 US$1,000 Series 3 0.4 million 31 December 2005 US$1,000 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 Series 1 0.75 million 31 March 2005 1,000 Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 Series 1 1.25 million 31 December 2009 1,000 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 Series 1 0.2 million 31 December 2010 1,000 In the event that the non-cumulative convertible preference Except as described above, the holders of the non-cumulative shares are not redeemed on or before the redemption date, the preference shares have no right to participate in the surplus holder may convert the non-cumulative convertible preference assets of the company.
shares into ordinary shares in the company.
Holders of the non-cumulative preference shares are not Under existing arrangements, no redemption or purchase of entitled to receive notice of or attend general meetings of the any non-cumulative preference shares may be made by the company except if any resolution is proposed for adoption by company without the prior consent of the UK Financial the shareholders of the company to vary or abrogate any of Services Authority.
the rights attaching to the non-cumulative preference shares or proposing the winding-up or liquidation of the company.
In any On a winding-up or liquidation of the company, the holders of such case, they are entitled to receive notice of and to attend the non-cumulative preference shares will be entitled to the general meeting of shareholders at which such resolution receive, out of any surplus assets available for distribution to is to be proposed and will be entitled to speak and vote on the companys shareholders after payment of arrears of such resolution but not on any other resolution.
In addition, in dividends on the cumulative preference shares up to the date the event that, prior to any general meeting of shareholders, of repayment pari passu with the cumulative preference the company has failed to pay in full the three most recent shares, the non-cumulative sterling preference shares and all quarterly dividend payments due on the non-cumulative dollar other shares of the company ranking pari passu with the nonpreference shares, the two most recent semi-annual dividend cumulative preference shares as regards participation in the payments due on the non-cumulative convertible dollar section surplus assets of the company, a liquidation distribution of preference shares and the most recent annual dividend US$25 per non-cumulative preference share of US$0.01, payments due on the non-cumulative convertible euro 03 US$1,000 per non-cumulative convertible preference share of preference shares and on the non-cumulative convertible US$0.01, 1,000 per non-cumulative convertible preference sterling preference shares, the holders shall be entitled to share of 0.01 and 1,000 per non-cumulative convertible receive notice of, attend, speak and vote at such meeting on all preference share of 0.01, together with an amount equal to matters together with the holders of the ordinary shares, and in dividends for the then current dividend period accrued to the these circumstances only, the rights of the holders of the nondate of payment, before any distribution or payment may be cumulative preference shares so to vote shall continue until the made to holders of the ordinary shares as regards company shall have resumed the payment in full of the participation in the surplus assets of the company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 170 Notes on the accounts continued 34 Reserves 2004 2003 2002 2004 The Group The Group The Group The company m m m m Share premium account At 1 January 8,175 7,608 7,465 8,175 Currency translation adjustments 231 203 283 231 Shares issued during the year 4,550 760 685 4,550 Conversion of exchangeable undated loan capital 460 460 Preference shares redeemed during the year 268 Other movements 10 10 9 10 170 At 31 December 12,964 8,175 7,608 12,964 Merger reserve At 1 January 10,881 11,455 12,029 Transfer to profit and loss account 574 574 574 At 31 December 10,307 10,881 11,455 Other reserves At 1 January 419 387 212 156 Redemption of preference shares 150 Transfer of increase in value of long-term life assurance business 38 32 25 At 31 December 457 419 387 156 Revaluation reserve At 1 January 7 80 113 16,857 Revaluation of interests in subsidiary undertakings 1,887 Revaluation of premises 56 69 33 Transfer from to profit and loss account 29 4 At 31 December 92 780 14,970 Profit and loss account As previously reported 7,848 6,768 5,956 2,588 Prior year adjustment arising on implementation of FRS 17 2,001 1,981 353 At 1 January as restated 5,847 4,787 5,603 2,588 Currency translation adjustments and other movements 409 38 28 1 Retention for the year 2,419 764 767 785 Employee share option payments 136 Redemption of preference shares 364 332 Actuarial losses gains recognised in post-retirement benefit schemes 1,134 36 1,692 Own shares held in relation to employee share schemes 7 7 Goodwill previously written off 40 Transfer from merger reserve 574 574 574 Transfer of increase in value of long-term life assurance business 38 32 25 Transfer to from revaluation reserve 29 4 At 31 December 7,223 5,847 4,787 3,365 The cumulative goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiary and associated undertakings which are still part of the Group and written off directly against profit and loss account reserves of the Group amounted to 1,133 million at 31 December 2004.
Exchange gains of 1,024 million 2003 604 million arising are cumulative net losses of 320 million 2003 net gains on foreign currency borrowings have been offset in the 90 million relating to the retranslation of opening net assets Groups profit and loss account reserves against differences of subsidiary and associated undertakings offset by foreign on retranslating the net investment in overseas subsidiary and currency borrowing.
associated undertakings financed by these borrowings.
At 31 December 2004, 707,247 2003 790,019 ordinary The tax effect of gains and losses taken directly to reserves shares of 25p each of the company were held by the 1992 was nil 2003 nil.
Employee Share Trust and 63,098 2003 nil ordinary shares of 25p each were held by the 2001 Employee Share Trust in Included in the closing balances of the Groups revaluation respect of options under the executive option scheme and reserves and profit and loss account at 31 December 2004 awards under the medium term performance plan.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 171 2004 2003 Non-equity shareholders funds m m Non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 1,951 1,140 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of US$0.01 978 1,058 Non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 864 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 529 528 Non-cumulative convertible preference shares of 0.01 197 196 Cumulative preference shares of 1 1 1 4,520 2,923 171 35 Lease commitments The annual rental commitments of the Group under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2004 2003 Premises Equipment Premises Equipment m m m m Expiring within one year 10 3 76 Expiring between one and five years 57 12 39 9 Expiring after five years 201 45 200 1 268 60 246 16 36 Analysis of total assets and liabilities 2004 2003 m m Assets: denominated in sterling 276,291 232,779 denominated in currencies other than sterling 307,176 221,649 583,467 454,428 Liabilities: denominated in sterling 271,410 233,493 denominated in currencies other than sterling 312,057 220,935 583,467 454,428 37 Collateral given and received under repurchase transactions The Group enters into securities repurchase agreements and securities lending transactions under which it receives or transfers cash or securities as collateral in accordance with normal market practice.
Securities transferred under repurchase transactions included within securities on the balance sheet were as follows: 2004 2003 m m Treasury and other eligible bills 1,593 761 Debt securities 32,129 24,231 33,722 24,992 All of the above securities could be resold or repledged by the holder.
Securities received as collateral under reverse repurchase agreements amounted to 91.4 billion 2003 57.7 billion, of which 85.1 billion 2003 53.6 billion had been resold or repledged as collateral for the Groups own transactions.
section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 172 Notes on the accounts continued 38 Assets charged as security for liabilities 2004 2003 Assets charged as security for liabilities m m Loans and advances to customers 11,509 1,196 Debt securities 4,344 2,628 Tangible fixed assets 1,268 1,162 Loans to banks 73 Other 53 17,121 5,112 172 Included above are assets pledged with overseas government agencies and banks, and margin deposits placed with exchanges.
2004 2003 Liabilities secured by charges on assets m m Deposits by banks 5,628 3,000 Customer accounts 2,001 92 Debt securities in issue 1,522 1,550 9,151 4,642 39 Derivatives In the normal course of business, the Group enters into a variety Options of derivative transactions principally in the foreign exchange Currency and interest rate options confer the right, but not the and interest rate markets.
These are used to provide financial obligation, on the buyer to receive or pay a specific quantity of services to customers and to take, hedge and modify positions an asset or financial instrument for a specified price at or as part of trading activities.
Derivatives are also used to hedge before a specified date.
Options may be exchange traded or or modify risk exposures arising on the balance sheet from a OTC agreements.
The Group principally buys and sells variety of activities including lending and securities investment.
currency and interest rate options.
The principal types of derivative contracts into which the Futures and forwards Group enters are described below.
Short-term interest rate futures, bond futures and forward foreign exchange contracts are all agreements to deliver, or Swaps take delivery of, a specified amount of an asset or financial These are over-the-counter OTC agreements between two instrument based on the specified rate, price or index applied parties to exchange periodic payments of interest, or against the underlying asset or financial instrument, at a payments for the change in value of a commodity, or related specified date.
Futures are exchange traded at standardised index, over a set period based on notional principal amounts.
amounts of the underlying asset or financial instrument.
The Group enters into swap transactions in several markets.
Forward contracts are OTC agreements and are principally Interest rate swaps exchange fixed rates for floating rates of dealt in by the Group in interest rates as forward rate agreements interest based on notional amounts.
Basis swaps exchange and in currency as forward foreign exchange contracts.
floating or fixed interest calculated using different bases.
Cross currency swaps are the exchange of interest based on notional Collateral values of different currencies.
Equity and commodity swaps The Group may require collateral in respect of the credit risk in exchange interest for the return on an equity or commodity, or derivative transactions.
The amount of credit risk is principally equity or commodity index.
the positive fair value of contracts.
Collateral may be in the form of cash or in the form of a lien over a customers assets entitling the Group to make a claim for current and future liabilities.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 173 Maturity of replacement cost of over-the-counter contracts trading and non-trading Replacement cost indicates the Groups derivatives credit exposure.
The following table sets forth the gross positive fair values by maturity.
The net replacement cost of internal trades is not included as there is no credit risk associated with them.
Exchange traded contracts are excluded from the above table.
Such contracts generally involve lower credit risk than OTC contracts as they are cleared through exchanges that require margin from participants and the daily settlement of gains and losses.
Trading derivatives The following table shows the fair values of instruments in the derivatives trading portfolio: 2004 2003 End of period fair value End of period fair value Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Exchange rate contracts: Spot, forwards and futures 17,133 18,566 18,299 20,325 Currency swaps 6,281 6,314 5,183 4,944 Options purchased 5,797 4,620 Options written 5,324 4,295 29,211 30,204 28,102 29,564 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 55,001 55,360 50,838 50,744 Options purchased 3,168 2,799 Options written 3,274 2,829 Futures and forwards 475 479 629 639 58,644 59,113 54,266 54,212 Credit derivatives 264 285 273 155 Equity and commodity contracts 1,274 941 924 720 section 89,393 90,543 83,565 84,651 Netting 71,509 71,509 69,478 69,478 03 17,884 19,034 14,087 15,173 Average fair values before netting : Exchange rate contracts 20,050 21,193 18,967 19,619 Interest rate contracts 55,548 56,258 65,676 65,977 Credit derivatives 219 177 365 133 Equity and commodity contracts 1,325 920 877 624 77,142 78,548 85,885 86,353 Gains and losses on exchange traded contracts subject to daily margining requirements are settled daily.
The fair value of such contracts included above reflects the last days variation margin.
It should be noted that the following tables include the components of the internal hedging programme that transfers risks to the trading portfolios in the Group or to external third party participants in the derivatives markets.
The following table summarises the fair values and book values of derivatives held for non-trading activities and includes internal trades: 2004 2004 2003 2003 Fair value Book value Fair value Book value Positive Negative Positive Negative Positive Negative Positive Negative m m m m m m m m Exchange rate contracts: Spot, forwards and futures 46 665 35 603 101 464 94 460 Currency swaps and options 349 227 234 123 304 210 224 135 395 892 269 726 405 674 318 595 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 1,617 1,342 623 650 2,541 2,247 608 683 Futures, forwards and options 71 318 2 2 62 416 1 2 1,688 1,660 625 652 2,603 2,663 609 685 Credit derivatives 411 6 36 Equity and commodity contracts 207 62 102 15 118 52 78 22 Total 2,294 2,625 996 1,399 3,129 3,395 1,005 1,302 The following table analyses, by maturity and contract type, the notional principal amounts of the Groups non-trading derivatives third party and internal : Within One to Two to Over 2004 Within One to Two to Over 2003 one year two years five years five years Total one year two years five years five years Total bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Exchange rate contracts: Spot, forwards and futures 20.5 0.2 0.1 20.8 19.4 0.2 0.1 19.7 Currency swaps and options 1.6 0.3 1.1 2.0 5.0 3.2 1.0 0.7 1.9 6.8 22.1 0.5 1.1 2.1 25.8 22.6 1.0 0.9 2.0 26.5 Interest rate contracts: Interest rate swaps 34.4 6.7 30.7 48.7 120.5 34.4 15.1 33.5 43.7 126.7 Futures, forwards and options 0.9 0.2 3.8 8.7 13.6 0.4 0.1 3.3 4.6 8.4 35.3 6.9 34.5 57.4 134.1 34.8 15.2 36.8 48.3 135.1 Credit derivatives 0.1 0.3 0.8 1.2 0.5 0.2 0.3 1.0 Equity and commodity contracts 0.4 0.2 1.1 0.6 2.3 0.3 0.5 0.7 0.2 1.7 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 175 40 Financial instruments assets during a given period and tends to benefit net interest The Groups objectives and policies in managing the risks that income in a declining interest rate environment.
An asset or arise in connection with the use of financial instruments are set positive gap position exists when assets reprice more quickly out in the Operating and financial review under Market risk, or in greater proportion than liabilities during a given period Currency risk and Equity risk.
and tends to benefit net interest income in a rising interest rate environment.
Contractual repricing terms do not reflect the Interest rate sensitivity gap potential impact of early repayment or withdrawal.
Positions The tables below summarise the Groups interest rate may not be reflective of those in subsequent periods.
Major sensitivity gap for its non-trading book at 31 December 2004 changes in positions can be made promptly as market outlooks and 31 December 2003.
The tables show the contractual rechange.
In addition, significant variations in interest rate sensitivity 175 pricing for each category of asset, liability and for off-balance may exist within the re-pricing periods presented and among sheet items.
A liability or negative gap position exists when the currencies in which the Group has interest rate positions.
The Groups structural currency exposures were as follows: Foreign 2004 Foreign 2003 Net currency Structural Net currency Structural investments borrowings foreign investments borrowings foreign in overseas hedging net currency in overseas hedging net currency operations investments exposures operations investments exposures Functional currency of net investment m m m m m m US dollar 12,367 6,580 5,787 5,329 5,198 131 Euro 2,086 1,349 737 1,422 826 596 Swiss franc 398 392 6 357 357 Other non-sterling 116 112 4 118 114 4 Total 14,967 8,433 6,534 7,226 6,495 731 Trading book market risk An explanation of the value-at-risk VaR methodology of estimating potential losses arising from the Groups exposure to market risk in its trading book and the main assumptions and parameters underlying it is given in Risk management market risk in the Operating and financial review.
The following table analyses the VaR for the Groups trading portfolios by type of market risk exposure at the period end and as an average for the period and the maximum and minimum for the period: 31 December Year ended 31 December 2004 31 December Year ended 31 December 2003 2004 Maximum Minimum Average 2003 Maximum Minimum Average m m m m m m m m Interest rate 11.2 16.5 6.9 11.5 7.4 14.5 5.7 9.4 Currency 1.22.70.51.1 0.8 2.5 0.7 1.3 Equity 0.22.00.20.6 0.4 1.4 0.2 0.5 Diversification effects 2.3 1.2 Total 10.3 16.0 6.4 10.8 7.4 14.2 5.6 9.4 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 177 Fair values of financial instruments The following tables set out the fair values of the Groups prepayments, credit risk and discount rates.
Changes in these financial instruments.
Fair value is the amount at which an assumptions would significantly affect estimated fair values.
instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between The fair values reported would not necessarily be realised in willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Quoted an immediate sale: nor are there plans to settle liabilities prior market values are used where available: otherwise, fair values to contractual maturity.
As there is a wide range of valuation have been estimated based on discounted expected future cash techniques, it may be inappropriate to compare the Groups flows and other valuation techniques.
These techniques involve fair value information to independent markets or other financial uncertainties and require assumptions and judgements covering institutions fair value.
177 2004 2004 2003 2003 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Trading business Note m m m m Assets Treasury bills and other eligible bills 1 2,921 2,921 1,869 1,869 Loans and advances to banks and customers 1 98,142 98,142 59,608 59,608 Debt securities 1 54,726 54,726 37,575 37,575 Equity shares 1 486 486 428 428 Derivatives 2 17,884 17,884 14,087 14,087 Liabilities Deposits by banks and customer accounts 3 80,815 80,815 52,300 52,300 Debt securities in issue 1 1,760 1,760 1,117 1,117 Short positions in securities 1 28,923 28,923 19,128 19,128 Subordinated loan capital 1 54 54 59 59 Derivatives 2 19,034 19,034 15,173 15,173 2004 2004 2003 2003 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value Banking business Note m m m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 1 4,293 4,293 3,822 3,822 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1 2,629 2,629 2,501 2,501 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 1 3,189 3,189 2,977 2,977 Loans and advances to banks and customers 4 305,587 307,805 244,814 246,244 Debt securities 5 36,485 36,299 42,374 42,195 Equity shares 5 2,474 2,916 1,872 2,289 Liabilities Items in the course of transmission to other banks 1 802 802 958 958 Deposits by banks and customer accounts 3 303,328 303,210 251,986 252,360 Debt securities in issue 6 57,200 57,199 39,899 39,897 Subordinated loan capital 7 20,312 21,652 16,939 17,522 Non-equity minority interests 7 3,671 3,899 2,724 2,867 Non-equity shareholders funds 7 4,520 4,811 2,923 3,245 Derivatives net 2 403 331 297 266 section Notes: 1 Financial assets and financial liabilities carried at fair value or where carrying value approximates to fair value because they are of short maturity or repricing date.
03 2 Fair values of derivatives are determined by market prices where available.
Otherwise fair value is based on current market information using appropriate valuation models.
3 The fair value of deposits repayable on demand is equal to their carrying value.
The fair values of term deposits and time certificates of deposit are estimated by discounting expected future cash flows using rates currently offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
4 For loans which reprice frequently or are linked to the Groups base rate, and for which there has been no significant change in credit risk since inception, carrying value represents a reasonable estimate of fair value.
For other loans, fair values are estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using current interest rates appropriate to the type of loan, and making adjustments for credit risk.
5 Fair values of marketable securities are based on quoted market prices.
Where these are unavailable, fair value is estimated using other valuation techniques.
6 The fair value of short-term debt securities in issue is approximately equal to their carrying value.
The fair value of other debt securities in issue is based on quoted market prices where available, or where these are unavailable, is estimated using other valuation techniques.
7 The fair value of loan capital, non-equity minority interests and preference shares is based on quoted market prices where available.
For unquoted loan capital, fair value has been estimated using other valuation techniques.
8 Fair values are not given for financial commitments and contingent liabilities.
The diversity of the fee structures, the lack of an established market and the difficulty of separating the value of the instruments from the value of the overall relationship involve such uncertainty that it is not meaningful to provide an estimate of their fair value.
The principal amounts of these instruments are given in Note 41.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 178 Notes on the accounts continued 40 Financial instruments continued Hedges Derivatives and debt securities held for hedging purposes are accounted for in accordance with the treatment of the hedged transaction.
As a result, any gains or losses on the hedging instrument arising from changes in fair values are not recognised in the profit and loss account immediately but are accounted for in the same manner as the hedged item.
2004 2004 2003 2003 Unrecognised Deferred Unrecognised Deferred gains and gains and gains and gains and losses losses losses losses m m m m At 1 January gains 2,236 213 2,535 285 178 At 1 January losses 2,205 34 2,275 44 31 179 260 241 Recognised gains that arose in previous periods 781 65 659 72 Recognised losses that arose in previous periods 537 4 636 12 Unrecognised gains and losses arising in the year 224 208 Unrecognised gains and losses deferred in the year 61 61 2 2 Unrecognised gains and losses deferred and taken to profit and loss in the year 30 At 31 December 72 27 31 179 Of which gains 1,571 483 2,236 213 Of which losses 1,499 456 2,205 34 72 27 31 179 Gains expected to be recognised in the year to 31 December 2005 year to 31 December 2004 318 171 532 66 Gains expected to be recognised in the year to 31 December 2006 or later year to 31 December 2005 or later 1,253 312 1,704 147 1,571 483 2,236 213 Losses expected to be recognised in the year to 31 December 2005 year to 31 December 2004 221 91 371 5 Losses expected to be recognised in the year to 31 December 2006 or later year to 31 December 2005 or later 1,278 365 1,834 29 1,499 456 2,205 34 During the year to 31 December 2004, gains of 249 million 2003 58 million and losses of 166 million 2003 95 million arising in previous periods were taken directly to the profit and loss account on financial instruments no longer accounted for as hedges.
41 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments The amounts shown in the table below are intended only to provide an indication of the volume of business outstanding at 31 December.
Although the Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance of the obligations undertaken by customers, the amounts shown do not, and are not intended to, provide any indication of the Groups expectation of future losses.
2004 2003 m m Contingent liabilities: Acceptances and endorsements 362 595 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 10,438 8,787 Other contingent liabilities 5,293 5,482 16,093 14,864 Commitments: Documentary credits and other short-term trade related transactions 182 605 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend less than one year 109,653 85,424 one year and over 69,577 51,827 Other commitments 1,365 1,837 180,777 139,693 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 179 Banking commitments and contingent obligations, which have be unconditionally cancellable or may persist, provided all been entered into on behalf of customers and for which there conditions in the loan facility are satisfied or waived.
are corresponding obligations from customers, are not included Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and in assets and liabilities.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits credit loss, in the event of non-performance by the other party and unutilised overdraft facilities.
and where all counterclaims, collateral or security proves valueless, is represented by the contractual nominal amount Other commitments these include forward asset purchases, of these instruments included in the table.
These commitments forward forward deposits placed and undrawn note issuance and contingent obligations are subject to the Groups normal and revolving underwriting facilities.
credit approval processes and any potential loss is taken into 179 account in assessing provisions for bad and doubtful debts in Regulatory enquiries and investigations in the normal course accordance with the Groups provisioning policy.
of business the Group and its subsidiaries co-operate with regulatory authorities in various jurisdictions in their enquiries or Contingent liabilities investigations into alleged or possible breaches of regulations.
Acceptances in accepting a bill of exchange drawn on it by a customer a bank undertakes to pay the holder of the bill at Additional contingent liabilities arise in the normal course of maturity.
Most acceptances are presented for payment and the Groups business.
It is not anticipated that any material loss reimbursement by the customer is usually immediate.
In the will arise from these transactions.
UK, bills accepted by certain banks designated by the Bank of England are eligible for rediscount at the Bank of England.
Litigation Since December 2003, members of the Group have been Endorsements in endorsing a bill of exchange a bank joined as defendants in a number of legal actions in the United accepts liability for payment of any shortfall on the bill at States following the collapse of Enron.
Unlike acceptances, the endorsing bank receives are, to a substantial degree, unquantified and in each case value for the bill, which is then rediscounted.
they are made against large numbers of defendants.
The Group intends to defend these claims vigorously.
The US Guarantees the Group gives guarantees on behalf of Courts dealing with the main Enron actions have ordered that customers.
A financial guarantee represents an irrevocable the Group join the non-binding, multi-party mediation which undertaking that the Group will meet a customers obligations commenced in late 2003.
Based on current knowledge to third parties if the customer fails to do so.
The maximum including applicable defences and given the unquantified amount that the Group could be required to pay under a nature of these claims, the directors are unable at this stage to guarantee is its principal amount as disclosed in the table above.
predict with certainty the eventual loss in these matters.
In The Group expects most guarantees it provides to expire unused.
addition, pursuant to requests received from the US Securities and Exchange Commission and the US Department of Justice, Other contingent liabilities these include standby letters of the Group has been providing copies of Enron-related credit, supporting customer debt issues and contingent materials to these authorities and the Group continues to coliabilities relating to customer trading activities such as those operate fully with them.
arising from performance and customs bonds, warranties and indemnities.
Members of the Group are engaged in other litigation in the United Kingdom and a number of overseas jurisdictions, Commitments including the United States, involving claims by and against Documentary credits and other short-term trade related them arising in the ordinary course of business.
The directors transactions documentary letters are commercial letters of of the company have reviewed these other actual, threatened credit providing for payment by the Group to a named and known potential claims and proceedings and, after beneficiary against presentation of specified documents.
consulting with the Groups legal advisers are satisfied that the outcome of these claims and proceedings will not have a section Commitments to lend under a loan commitment the Group material adverse effect on the Groups consolidated net assets, agrees to make funds available to a customer in the future.
results of operations or cash flows.
03 Loan commitments, which are usually for a specified term may Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 180 Notes on the accounts continued 42 Acquisitions The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year, all of which were accounted for using acquisition accounting principles.
a Charter One Charter One Financial, Inc. was acquired by Citizens in August 2004 for a cash consideration of US$10.1 billion.
The acquisition has extended Citizen's coverage to North Eastern and Mid Western States of the US and will enable Citizens to achieve a significant increase in the scale of its activities.
Although not required, as it is not a material acquisition for the Group, separate purchase accounting disclosures for Charter One Financial, Inc. are set out below.
The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired and the consideration paid are shown in the table below: 180 Book value of net assets Fair value Fair value to acquired adjustments the Group At date of acquisition m m m Cash and balances at central banks 330 330 Loans and advances to customers 18,287 274 18,013 Debt securities 3,107 26 3,081 Equity shares 381 381 Tangible fixed assets 699 699 Other assets 740 2 738 Deposits by banks 5,579 5,579 Customer accounts 15,823 28 15,851 Other liabilities 49 45 94 Deferred tax provisions 534 46 488 Post-retirement pension liabilities 17 17 Dated loan capital 222 22 244 Net assets acquired 1,320 351 969 Goodwill 4,654 Total consideration 5,623 Satisfied by: Payment of cash 5,611 Fees and expenses relating to the acquisition 12 5,623 Reduced by 307 million US$553 million paid out by Charter One immediately prior to closing principally in respect of the buyout of employee stock options.
Gross of this amount, consideration was 5,930 million US$10,677 million and the book value of net assets acquired 1,627 million US$2,929 million.
Fair value adjustments reflect the restatement of balances to their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition, and the related tax effect.
The estimated contribution to the Groups results, before funding costs of Charter One, for the year ended 31 December 2004 is shown below: Four months ended 31 December 2004 m Net interest income 220 Non-interest income 129 Total income 349 Operating expenses 177 Contribution before provisions 172 Provisions 16 Contribution before goodwill amortisation 156 Goodwill amortisation 76 Contribution 80 The contribution above is after charging goodwill amortisation and includes the post-acquisition effect of fair value adjustments.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 181 b Other acquisitions The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities of all other acquisitions made during the year and the consideration paid are shown in the table below: Book value of net assets Fair value Fair value to acquired adjustments the Group At respective dates of acquisition m m m Cash and balances at central banks 106 2 108 Loans and advances to banks 768 768 Loans and advances to customers 5,491 70 5,421 Debt securities 938 6 932 181 Tangible fixed assets 106 7 99 Other assets 129 15 114 Prepayments and accrued income 55 10 Deposits by banks 1,874 1,874 Customer accounts 3,208 4 3,212 Debt securities in issue 777 777 Other liabilities 118 45 73 Accruals and deferred income 27 38 65 Deferred tax provisions 6 20 26 Post-retirement benefit liabilities 15 15 Other provisions 13 1 12 Dated loan capital 81 7 88 Undated loan capital 36 29 65 Minority interest-equity 4 4 Net assets acquired 1,384 143 1,241 Goodwill 1,245 Total consideration 2,486 Satisfied by: Payment of cash 2,468 Loan notes 4 Fees and expenses relating to the acquisitions 14 2,486 Fair value adjustments reflect the restatement of balances to their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition, and the related tax effect.
The estimated contribution to the Groups results, before funding costs of the acquisitions, is shown below: Year ended 31 December 2004 m Net interest income 165 Non-interest income 88 Total income 253 Operating expenses 125 Operating profit 128 Provisions 42 Contribution before goodwill amortisation 86 Goodwill amortisation 45 section Contribution 41 03 From the dates of acquisition.
The contribution above is after charging goodwill amortisation and includes the post-acquisition effect of fair value adjustments.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 182 Notes on the accounts continued 43 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities 2004 2003 2002 m m m Operating profit 6,917 6,076 4,852 Increase in prepayments and accrued income 1,609 514 636 Interest on subordinated liabilities 681 551 659 Increase in accruals and deferred income 2,300 1,455 872 Amortisation of and provisions against investment securities 92 60 99 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 1,428 1,461 1,286 Loans and advances written off net of recoveries 1,321 1,447 973 182 Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 69 30 32 Profit on sale of subsidiaries and associates 4 63 13 Profit from associated undertakings 35 12 2 Profit on sale of investment securities 167 172 85 Charge for pensions 381 330 127 Pension contributions 1,146 141 168 Provisions for liabilities and charges 20 36 47 Provisions utilised 47 99 56 Depreciation and amortisation of tangible and intangible fixed assets 2,022 1,682 1,626 Increase in value of long-term assurance business 94 73 61 Net cash inflow from trading activities 9,349 9,100 7,542 Increase decrease in items in the course of collection 128 240 547 Increase decrease in treasury and other eligible bills 1,264 6,626 1,323 Increase decrease in loans and advances to banks 3,370 2,797 2,756 Increase in loans and advances to customers 69,543 26,140 32,670 Increase decrease in securities 10,367 9,871 1,799 Increase in other assets 3,503 977 1,181 Decrease in items in the course of transmission 156 300 851 Increase in deposits by banks 24,310 11,188 14,512 Increase in customer accounts 29,107 15,669 19,383 Increase in debt securities in issue 17,163 7,078 3,269 Increase decrease in other liabilities 4,817 168 3,817 Increase in settlement balances and short positions 8,796 3,202 482 Effect of other accruals deferrals and other non-cash movements 1,096 1,264 1,167 Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,307 19,708 13,737 restated see page 139 Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 183 44 Analysis of the net outflow of cash in respect of the purchase of businesses and subsidiary undertakings 2004 2003 2002 m m m Cash consideration paid 8,105 2,252 415 Cash acquired 457 504 107 Net outflow of cash 7,648 1,748 308 45 Sale of subsidiary and associated undertakings 2004 2003 2002 m m m 183 Net assets disposed of 2 66 13 Goodwill written back 40 Goodwill sold 16 10 3 Profit on disposal 4 63 13 Net inflow of cash in respect of disposals net of expenses 22 179 29 46 Analysis of changes in financing during the year Share capital including share premium Loan capital 2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m m At 1 January 8,944 8,362 8,358 16,998 13,965 12,530 Currency translation adjustments 231 203 283 475 448 520 Net cash inflow outflow from financing 4,203 180 515 3,906 3,481 1,955 Acquisition of subsidiaries 397 Other non-cash movements 870 965 802 460 At 31 December 13,786 8,944 8,362 20,366 16,998 13,965 47 Analysis of cash 2004 2003 2002 m m m Cash and balances at central banks 4,293 3,822 3,481 Loans and advances to banks repayable on demand 19,430 17,115 6,792 Cash 23,723 20,937 10,273 Certain subsidiary undertakings are required to maintain balances with the Bank of England which, at 31 December 2004, amounted to 260 million 2003 231 million.
Certain subsidiary undertakings are required by law to maintain reserve balances with the Federal Reserve Bank in the US.
Such reserve balances amounted to US$132 million at 31 December 2004 2003 US$190 million.
48 Analysis of changes in cash during the year 2004 2003 2002 m m m At 1 January 20,937 10,273 7,027 Net cash inflow 2,786 10,664 3,246 At 31 December 23,723 20,937 10,273 section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 184 Notes on the accounts continued 49 Segmental analysis In the tables below, the analyses of net assets are included in The prior year data in the tables below have been restated to compliance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice reflect the transfer in 2004 of certain activities from Wealth 25 Segmental Reporting.
The fungible nature of liabilities Management to Retail Banking and from other divisions, within the banking industry results in allocations of liabilities principally RBS Insurance and Ulster Bank, to Manufacturing.
which, in some cases, are necessarily subjective.
The directors believe that it is more meaningful to analyse total assets and the result of this analysis is therefore also included in the tables.
Rest of UK USA Europe the World Total 2004 m m m m m Interest receivable 12,469 2,763 1,267 197 16,696 Dividend income 42 17 20 79 Fees and commissions receivable 5,260 808 467 99 6,634 Dealing profits 1,113 821 18 36 1,988 section Other operating income 1,504 92 255 4 1,855 03 General insurance premium income net of reinsurance 4,794 150 4,944 Gross income 25,182 4,501 2,177 336 32,196 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 4,776 1,389 625 127 6,917 Total assets 378,396 145,572 45,593 13,906 583,467 Net assets 18,070 11,068 2,671 56 31,865 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 186 Notes on the accounts continued 49 Segmental analysis continued Rest of UK USA Europe the World Total 2003 m m m m m Interest receivable 10,780 2,142 942 134 13,998 Dividend income 33 7 18 58 Fees and commissions receivable 4,663 622 323 85 5,693 Dealing profits 1,004 717 39 33 1,793 Other operating income 1,432 86 132 1,650 General insurance premium income net of reinsurance 2,981 142 3,123 Gross income 20,893 3,574 1,596 252 26,315 186 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 4,456 1,159 315 146 6,076 Total assets 314,638 102,389 27,411 9,990 454,428 Net assets 18,669 5,364 2,060 5 26,098 2002 Interest receivable 10,372 2,240 837 112 13,561 Dividend income 32 10 16 58 Fees and commissions receivable 4,375 601 251 22 5,249 Dealing profits 736 649 42 35 1,462 Other operating income 1,346 32 40 8 1,410 General insurance premium income net of reinsurance 1,874 79 1,953 Gross income 18,735 3,532 1,265 161 23,693 Profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 3,928 618 340 34 4,852 Total assets 279,478 102,532 25,354 3,674 411,038 Net assets 19,098 4,056 1,917 25,071 restated see page 139 50 Directors remuneration 2004 2003 000 000 Non-executive directors emoluments 874 759 Chairman and executive directors emoluments 8,421 7,945 Chairman and executive directors contributions and allowances in respect of defined contribution pension schemes 178 164 9,473 8,868 Chairman and executive directors amounts receivable under long-term incentive plans 2,189 6,056 Chairman and executive directors gains on exercise of share options 5 2 11,667 14,926 Retirement benefits are accruing to five directors 2003 six under defined benefit schemes, two 2003 two of whom also accrued benefits under defined contribution schemes.
The executive directors may also participate in the companys executive share option, sharesave and option 2000 schemes and details of their interests in the companys shares arising from their participation are contained on page 131.
Details of the remuneration received by each director during the year and each directors pension arrangements are given on pages 130 to 133.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 187 51 Transactions with directors, officers and others b Intangible assets a At 31 December 2004, the amounts outstanding in relation Under the Groups UK GAAP accounting policy, goodwill to transactions, arrangements and agreements entered into arising on acquisitions after 1 October 1998 is recognised by authorised institutions in the Group were 234,265 in as an asset and amortised on a straight-line basis over its respect of loans to eight persons who were directors of estimated useful economic life.
Impairment tests on goodwill the company or persons connected with them at any time are carried out at the end of the first full accounting period during the financial period and 30,926 to one person who after its acquisition, and whenever there are indications of was an officer of the company at any time during the impairment.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 financial period.
October 1998 was deducted from reserves immediately.
b There were no contracts of significance to the business of Under US GAAP, goodwill is recognised as an asset, and is 187 the company and its subsidiaries which subsisted at 31 not amortised.
Under the transition rules of SFAS 142 December 2004, or during the year then ended, in which Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, no amortisation is any director of the company had a material interest.
charged on acquisitions made after 30 June 2001: amortisation is charged up to 31 December 2001 for other 52 Related party transactions goodwill.
All goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite Subsidiary undertakings lives are tested for impairment at least annually.
Certain In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 8 Related amounts included in goodwill under UK GAAP are Party Disclosures FRS 8, transactions or balances between classified as intangible assets under US GAAP and Group entities that have been eliminated on consolidation are amortised over their useful economic lives.
c Property revaluation and depreciation Investments The Groups freehold and leasehold properties are carried Group members provide development and other types of at original cost or subsequent valuation.
The surplus or capital support to businesses in their roles as providers of deficit on revaluation is included in the Groups reserves.
These investments are made in the normal course of Under US GAAP, revaluations of property are not permitted business and on arms-length terms depending on their nature.
to be reflected in the financial statements.
In some instances, the investment may extend to ownership or control over 20% or more of the voting rights of the investee Depreciation charged and gains or losses on disposal company.
However, these investments are not considered to under UK GAAP are based on the revalued amount of give rise to transactions of a materiality requiring disclosure freehold and long leasehold properties: no depreciation is under FRS 8. charged on investment properties which are revalued annually.
Under US GAAP, the depreciation charge and Pension Fund gains or losses on disposal are based on the historical The Group recharges The Royal Bank of Scotland Group cost for all properties.
Pension Fund with the cost of administration services incurred by it.
The amounts involved are not material to the Group.
d Leasehold property provisions Under UK GAAP, provisions are raised on leasehold 53 Significant differences between UK and US properties when there is a commitment to vacate the generally accepted accounting principles property.
US GAAP requires provisions to be recognised The consolidated financial statements of the Group are at the time the property is vacated.
prepared in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles GAAP that differ in certain material e Dividends respects from US GAAP.
The significant differences are Under UK GAAP, dividends are recorded in the period to summarised as follows: which they relate, whereas under US GAAP dividends are recorded in the period in which they are declared.
a Acquisition accounting section Under UK GAAP, all integration costs relating to f Loan origination acquisitions are expensed as post-acquisition expenses.
Under UK GAAP, certain loan fees are recognised when 03 Under US GAAP, certain restructuring and exit costs received.
Under US GAAP, applicable non-refundable loan incurred in the acquired business are treated as liabilities fees and certain direct costs are deferred and recognised assumed on acquisition and taken into account in the over the period of the related loan or facility.
g Pension costs Under UK GAAP, provisional fair value adjustments made in Under UK GAAP, pension assets are measured at their fair the accounting year in which the acquisition occurs may value and scheme liabilities are measured on an actuarial be amended in the subsequent accounting year.
Under US basis using the projected unit method and discounted at GAAP, the allocation of the cost of acquisition to the fair the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond values of assets and liabilities is generally completed of equivalent term and currency.
Any surplus or deficit of within 12 months of the date of acquisition.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 188 Notes on the accounts continued 53 Significant differences between UK and US k Securities generally accepted accounting principles continued Under UK GAAP, the Groups debt securities and equity scheme assets compared with liabilities is recognised in shares are classified as being held as investment the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
securities or for dealing purposes.
Investment securities An asset is only recognised to the extent that the surplus are stated at cost less provision for any permanent can be recovered through reduced contributions in the diminution in value.
Premiums and discounts on dated debt future or through refunds from the scheme.
US GAAP securities are amortised to interest income over the period requires a similar method but allows a certain portion of to maturity.
Securities held for dealing purposes are carried actuarial gains and losses to be deferred and allocated in at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the equal amounts over the average remaining service lives of profit and loss account.
Under US GAAP, securities held by 188 current employees.
A minimum additional liability must be the Groups private equity business are considered to be recognised if the accumulated benefit obligation the held by investment companies and are carried at fair value, current value of accrued benefits without allowance for with changes in fair value being reflected in net income.
future salary increases exceeds the fair value of plan The Groups other investment debt securities and assets and the Group has recorded a prepaid pension marketable investment equity shares are classified as costs or has an accrued liability that is less than the available-for-sale securities with unrealised gains and unfunded accumulated benefit.
Movements in the minimum losses reported in a separate component of equity, except additional liability, together with the related deferred tax, when the unrealised loss is considered other than are recognised through other comprehensive income.
temporary in which case the loss is included in net income.
Under US GAAP, the Group recognises an other than h Long-term assurance business temporary impairment on an available-for-sale equity share The shareholders interest in the long-term assurance fund when its carrying value has exceeded its market value for is valued as the discounted value of the cash flows more than twelve months.
expected to be generated from in-force policies together with net assets in excess of the statutory liabilities.
Under l Derivatives and hedging activities US GAAP, for traditional business, premiums are SFAS 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and recognised as revenue when due from the policyholders.
Hedging Activities was effective for the Groups US GAAP Costs of claims are recognised when insured events occur.
The Group has not made A liability for future policy benefits is established based changes in its use of non-trading derivatives to meet the upon the present value of future benefits less the present hedge criteria of SFAS 133.
As a result, from 1 January value of future net premiums.
Acquisition costs for 2001, for US GAAP purposes, the Groups portfolio of nontraditional business contracts are charged to the profit and trading derivatives has been remeasured to fair value and loss account in proportion to premium revenue recognised.
changes in fair value reflected in net income.
Under UK For unit-linked business, premiums and front-end load-type GAAP, these derivatives continue to be classified as noncharges receivable from customers and acquisition costs trading and accounted for in accordance with the underlying relating to the acquisition of new contracts are capitalised transaction or transactions being hedged.
and depreciated in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits.
Costs of claims are recognised SFAS 133 does not permit a non-derivative financial when insured events occur.
instrument to be designated as the hedging instrument in a fair value hedge of the foreign exchange exposure of i Extinguishment of liabilities available-for-sale securities.
Under UK GAAP, recognition of a financial liability ceases once any transfer of economic benefits to the creditor is no SFAS 133 also requires derivatives embedded in other longer likely.
Under US GAAP, a financial liability is financial instruments to be accounted for on a stand-alone derecognised only when the creditor is paid or the debtor basis if they have economic characteristics and risks that is legally released from being the primary obligator under differ from those of the host instrument.
the liability, either judicially or by the creditor.
US GAAP does not permit a profit or loss to be recognised j Leasing on transacting a derivative unless its valuation is based on In accordance with UK GAAP, the Groups accounting observable market data.
There is no similar requirement policy for finance lease income receivable is to allocate under UK GAAP.
Inception profits and losses reflecting the total gross earnings to accounting periods so as to give a application of the Groups usual pricing methodologies are constant periodic rate of return on the net cash investment, recognised as they arise.
and certain operating lease assets are depreciated on a reverse-annuity basis.
Under US GAAP, finance lease m Software development costs income is recognised so as to give a level rate of return on Under UK GAAP, most software development costs are the investment in the lease but without taking into account written off as incurred.
Under US GAAP, certain costs the associated tax flows, and all operating lease assets are relating to software developed for own use that are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
incurred after 1 January 1999 are capitalised and depreciated over the estimated useful life of the software.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 189 n Share-based compensation Recent developments in US GAAP Under UK GAAP, no compensation expense is recognised The FASB issued SFAS 153 Exchanges of Nonmonetary for the Groups executive share option schemes, under assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No.
29 in December which options are granted at the higher of nominal value 2004.
SFAS 153 provides for a general exception from fair and market value on the date of grant and for the Groups value measurement for exchanges of nonmonetary assets that Sharesave schemes, under which employees are granted do not have commercial substance.
The Statement is effective options at a 20% discount to market value at date of grant.
for fiscal years beginning after 15 June 2005 and is not Under US GAAP, the compensation expense based on the expected to affect the Group's US GAAP reporting.
options intrinsic value is charged to the profit and loss account over the period to their average vesting date.
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123 revised 2004 189 Share-Based Payment which requires compensation costs o Consolidation related to share-based payment transactions to be recognised UK GAAP requires consolidation of entities controlled by an in the financial statements.
The compensation cost will be enterprise where control means the enterprises ability to based on the grant-date fair value of the equity issued and will direct the financial and operating policies of an entity with be recognised over the period that an employee provides a view to gaining economic benefits.
US GAAP requires service in exchange for the award.
SFAS 123 revised 2004 consolidation by the primary beneficiary of a variable would be effective for the Group from 1 January 2006.
An enterprise is the primary that use the fair value method for either recognition or beneficiary of a VIE if it will absorb a majority of the disclosure under SFAS 123 will apply the revised Statement entitys expected losses, receive a majority of the entitys using a modified version of prospective application whereby expected residual returns, or both.
for that portion of outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered, compensation cost will be p Acceptances based on the grant-date fair value calculated under SFAS 123 Acceptances outstanding and the matching customers for either recognition or pro forma disclosures.
For periods liabilities are not reflected in the consolidated balance before the effective date, entities may elect to apply a modified sheet, but are disclosed as memorandum items.
Under US version of retrospective application under which financial GAAP, acceptances outstanding and the matching customers statements for prior periods are adjusted on a basis consistent liabilities are reflected in the consolidated balance sheet.
with the pro forma disclosures required by SFAS 123.
The Group currently makes pro forma disclosures of the effect on q Offset arrangements net income of compensation costs determined under the fair Under UK GAAP, debit and credit balances with the same value method of SFAS 123. counterparty are aggregated into a single item where there is a right to insist on net settlement and the debit balance matures no later than the credit balance.
Under US GAAP, agreements and balances with the same counterparty may be offset only where they have the same settlement date specified at inception and there is an intention to set off.
r Deferred taxation Accounting for deferred tax under UK GAAP is consistent with US GAAP except that deferred tax is not recognised under UK GAAP on certain timing differences resulting from the roll-over of gains on disposal of properties, but is provided under US GAAP on such differences.
section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 190 Notes on the accounts continued 53 Significant differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles continued Selected figures in accordance with US GAAP The following tables summarise the significant adjustments to consolidated net income available for ordinary shareholders and shareholders equity which would result from the application of US GAAP instead of UK GAAP.
Where applicable, the adjustments are stated gross of tax with the tax effect shown separately in total.
2004 2003 2002 Consolidated statement of income m m m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders UK GAAP 4,256 2,254 2,034 Adjustments in respect of: 190 Acquisition accounting 66 33 Amortisation of intangible assets 780 721 681 Property revaluation and depreciation 69 41 18 Leasehold property provisions 19 83 Loan origination 85 47 72 Pension costs 285 286 121 Long-term assurance business 27 57 37 Extinguishment of liabilities 94 84 Leasing 35 53 71 Securities 170 49 Derivatives and hedging 437 232 770 Software development costs 261 300 283 Share-based payment 26 32 Consolidation 29 60 Tax effect on the above adjustments 395 165 261 Deferred taxation 12 13 80 Net income available for ordinary shareholders US GAAP 3,948 2,564 3,108 2004 2003 Consolidated shareholders equity m m Shareholders funds UK GAAP 31,865 26,098 Adjustments in respect of: Acquisition accounting 517 451 Intangible assets 3,002 2,222 Property revaluation and depreciation 262 249 Leasehold property provisions 64 83 Proposed dividend 1,308 1,059 Loan origination 373 288 Pension costs 190 2,828 Long-term assurance business 205 178 Extinguishment of liabilities 178 84 Leasing 253 218 Securities 134 232 Derivatives and hedging 238 161 Software development costs 399 660 Share-based payment 58 32 Consolidation 89 60 Tax effect on cumulative UK US GAAP adjustments 733 1,128 Tax effect on other comprehensive income 684 155 Deferred tax 59 47 Shareholders equity US GAAP 36,191 31,665 Prior periods have been restated following the implementation of FRS 17 and the reclassification of perpetual regulatory securities.
Total assets under US GAAP, adjusted to reflect the consolidation of variable interest entities, inclusion of acceptances, provisions for contingent liabilities and commitments, the fair value of financial guarantees and the grossing-up of certain netting arrangements under UK GAAP, together with the effect of adjustments made to net income and shareholders funds, were 631 billion 2003 488 billion.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 191 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share EPS under US GAAP differ from UK GAAP only to the extent that the income calculated under US GAAP differs from that under UK GAAP.
of Per share Income shares amount Income shares amount Income shares amount m million pence m million pence m million pence Basic EPS 3,948 3,085 128.0 2,564 2,931 87.5 3,108 2,881 107.9 Dilutive effect of share options and convertible preference shares 66 73 0.9 22 0.7 43 1.6 Diluted EPS 4,014 3,158 127.1 2,564 2,953 86.8 3,108 2,924 106.3 191 US GAAP net income available to ordinary shareholders, see page 190.
The Group has convertible preference shares totalling 200 Outstanding options to purchase shares are excluded from the million 2003 and 2002 200 million, 750 million 2003 and computation of diluted EPS where the exercise prices of the 2002 750 million and $1,900 million 2003 and 2002 options are greater than the average market price of the $1,900 million.
All of the convertible preference shares, with ordinary shares during the relevant period.
At 31 December the exception of $1,500 million, have a dilutive effect in the 2004, there were 8.7 million such options outstanding 2003 current year and as such have been included in the 5.2 million: 2002 3.8 million.
computation of diluted earnings per share.
Pensions two-thirds of final salary for 40 years service or more.
Staff do On 1 April 2002, the Groups main pension schemes, The not make contributions for basic pensions but may make Royal Bank of Scotland Staff Pension Scheme and the National voluntary contributions on a regular basis to purchase Westminster Bank Pension Fund, were merged to form The additional service qualification where less than 40 years Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund the plan.
service will have been completed by normal retirement age.
The provisions of SFAS 87 Employers Accounting for Pensions have been applied to the plan, which covers most of The assets of the plan are held under separate trusts and, in the Groups UK employees: the impact of US GAAP on the the long-term, the funding policy is to maintain assets sufficient other Group schemes is considered to be immaterial.
to cover the benefits in respect of service to date, with due allowance for future earnings increases.
The plan assets A trust fund has been established under the plan, to which consist mainly of fixed-income securities and listed securities.
payments are made, determined on an actuarial basis, The investment policy followed for the plan seeks to deploy the designed to build up reserves during the working life of fullplan assets primarily in UK and overseas equity shares and UK time employees to pay such employees or their dependants a government securities.
Such pensions are based on final pensionable salaries and are related to the length of service Disclosures required by SFAS 132R for the Groups main scheme prior to retirement.
Pensions are limited to a maximum of are set out below.
Obligations and funded status 2004 2003 2002 Change in benefit obligation: m m m Projected benefit obligation at beginning of year 13,963 12,526 12,198 Service cost 420 340 303 Interest cost 768 706 715 section Net actuarial loss gain 1,568 902 217 Benefits and expenses paid 527 511 473 03 Projected benefit obligation at year end 16,192 13,963 12,526 2004 2003 2002 Change in plan assets: m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 11,822 10,682 12,567 Actual return on plan assets 1,234 1,559 1,521 Employers contribution 1,069 92 109 Benefits and expenses paid 527 511 473 Market value of plan assets at year end 13,598 11,822 10,682 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 192 Notes on the accounts continued 53 Significant differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles continued Pensions continued 2004 2003 2002 Prepaid pension cost: m m m Funded status 2,594 2,141 1,844 Unrecognised net actuarial loss 5,990 5,078 5,266 Unrecognised prior service cost 12 13 14 Unrecognised transition amount 6 14 22 Prepaid pension cost at year end 3,402 2,936 3,414 192 2004 2003 2002 Components of net periodic pension cost: m m m Service cost 420 340 303 Interest cost 768 706 715 Expected return on plan assets 840 757 901 Amortisation of prior service cost 1 11 Amortisation of loss 263 287 138 Amortisation of net transition asset 8 8 8 Net periodic pension cost 604 569 248 Assumptions 2004 2003 2002 Weighted average assumptions used at 31 December: % per annum % per annum % per annum Discount rate for liabilities 5.40 5.60 5.75 Salary increases 3.95 3.95 3.50 Pension increases 2.70 2.70 2.25 Long-term rate of return on assets 6.95 7.20 7.20 2004 2003 2002 Weighted-average allocations of market value of plan assets at 31 December: % %% Equity shares 57 65 67 Debt securities 31 32 31 Other 12 32 Total 100 100 100 At 31 December 2004, the fund's accumulated benefit Cash flows obligation was underfunded by 561 million 2002 168 The following pension payments under the main scheme, million.
This resulted in a reduction in the accumulated other which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are comprehensive income component of US GAAP shareholders' expected to be paid: equity of 3,951 million 2002 3,568 million, comprising the m excess of the accumulated benefit obligation over the market 2005 511 value of assets of 561 million 2002 168 million, prepaid 2006 521 pension cost of 3,402 million 2002 3,414 million less 2007 530 unrecognised prior service cost of 12 million 2002 14 2008 543 million.
This was reduced by deferred tax of 1,185 million 2009 557 2002 1,070 million.
At 31 December 2003, the fund had a After 2010 3,072 surplus of assets over its accumulated benefit obligation and no minimum liability was recognised.
The Group expects to contribute 376 million to its main UK pension plan in 2005.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 193 Loan impairment At 31 December 2004 and 2003, the Group estimated that million from domestic loans and 58 million for the year ended the difference between the carrying value of its loan portfolio 31 December 2004 2003 55 million: 2002 73 million under US GAAP and its value in the Groups UK GAAP financial from foreign loans.
Interest on non-accrual and restructured statements was such that no adjustment to net income or loans included in net income was 58 million for the year consolidated shareholders equity was required.
At 31 ended 31 December 2004 2003 60 million: 2002 47 December 2004, the Groups non-accrual loans, loans past million from domestic loans and 7 million for the year ended due 90 days and troubled debt restructurings amounted to 31 December 2004 2003 3 million: 2002 7 million from 5,529 million 2003 5,157 million.
of 3,602 million 2003 2,782 million were held against 193 these loans.
Average non-accrual loans, loans past due Securities 90 days and troubled debt restructurings for the year to 31 During 2004, net gains of 2 million were included in US GAAP December 2004 were 5,313 million 2003 5,166 million.
net income from transfers of securities from the available-forsale category into the trading category.
For 2004, net unrealised Gross interest income not recognised, but which would have losses of 924 million on available-for-sale securities were been recognised under the original terms of non-accrual and included in US GAAP other comprehensive income and 672 restructured loans, amounted to 237 million for the year million was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive ended 31 December 2004 2003 237 million: 2002 234 income into US GAAP net income.
The table below shows the fair value of available-for-sale securities that were in an unrealised loss position at 31 December 2004.
Less than 12 months More than 12 months Total Gross Gross Gross unrealised unrealised unrealised Number Fair value losses Fair value losses Fair value losses Issued by of issues m m m m m m UK government 512 20 512 20 US treasury and government and securities issued by US states 507 24 507 24 Other government 855 18 47 2 902 20 Corporate debt securities 73 4 75 5 148 9 Mortgage-backed securities 3,651 66 906 28 4,557 94 Bank and building society 29 4 51 1 80 5 Other 8181 Available-for-sale debt securities 516 5,123 117 1,591 56 6,714 173 The Group considers that unrealised losses on available-for-sale debt securities are temporary principally because they reflect changes in benchmark interest rates.
In 2004, other than temporary losses of 78 million have been recognised in net income on available-for-sale equity shares.
section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 194 Notes on the accounts continued 53 Significant differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles continued Cash flow statements There are many similarities between SFAS 95, Statement of Cash Flows as amended by SFAS 104 Statement of Cash Flows Net Reporting of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments and Classification of Cash Flows from Hedging Transactions, and FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements Revised.
The principal differences are the classifications of certain transactions.
Classification under FRS 1 Classification under SFAS 95 Equity dividends paid Equity dividends paid Financing activities Dividends paid on non-equity shares Returns on investments and Financing activities 194 servicing of finance Tax paid Taxation Operating activities Purchase and sale of associated and Acquisitions and disposals Investing activities subsidiary undertakings Purchase and sale of investment securities Capital expenditure and Investing activities and fixed assets financial investment Net change in loans and advances, Operating activities Investing activities including finance lease receivables Net change in deposits Operating activities Financing activities Net change in debt securities in issue Operating activities Financing activities Short-term funding not Operating activities Financing activities included in cash Summary consolidated statements of cash flows presented on a US GAAP basis for each of the three years ended 31 December 2004 are set out below: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Cash flows from operating activities 8,062 8,534 11,008 Cash flows from investing activities 82,113 31,879 44,892 Cash flows from financing activities 77,644 34,872 37,245 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 807 863 115 Change in cash and cash equivalents 2,786 10,664 3,246 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 20,937 10,273 7,027 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 23,723 20,937 10,273 The composition of cash at 31 December 2004, 2003 and 2002 and the movement in cash for the years then ended are shown in Note 47 and Note 48 on the accounts respectively.
Stock-based compensation costs the announcement of final or interim results of the Group The Group grants share options to executive officers under an for any particular year.
Options may not be transferred or executive share option scheme the executive scheme and assigned.
A participant may not be granted options over new to employees under a savings-related sharesave scheme the shares to the extent that the aggregate subscription price savings scheme and the option 2000 scheme.
would exceed four times his compensation.
Options granted under the executive scheme are issued on a UK Inland Revenue Executive scheme approved or unapproved basis.
Options are exercisable Under the terms of the executive scheme, senior management between the third and tenth anniversaries of the grant date, employees and executive directors of Group companies may only if performance criteria are met.
For options granted from participate in the executive scheme at the discretion of the 1996 to 1998, the criterion is the average growth in adjusted Board of directors of the company.
The executive scheme earnings per ordinary share to exceed the average increase in involves a participant being granted an option to subscribe for the UK Retail Prices Index by 2% per annum over a three year ordinary shares of the company at the higher of nominal value period.
For options granted since 1999, the relevant and market value of ordinary shares on the date of grant.
percentage has been increased to 3% per annum.
Normally, options may be granted only within six weeks after Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 195 Savings scheme Under the scheme, options are granted at the market value of Under the Inland Revenue rules, a participant in a savings ordinary shares at the date of grant and may normally be scheme is permitted to make a maximum monthly saving of exercised only between the third and sixth anniversary of the 250 under approved savings schemes.
Employees of Group date of grant.
companies in the UK and Ireland and certain offshore jurisdictions are offered participation in the savings scheme.
Limitations of the option schemes: Participants can make monthly savings for a period of three, i During a ten year period, no more than 10% in aggregate five or seven years.
Options may be granted at not less than of the issued ordinary share capital of the company from 80% of the average market value of ordinary shares of the time to time may be issued pursuant to all of the employee company by reference to dealings in the ordinary shares over share schemes operated by the company.
195 the last three trading days of the week immediately preceding the date of an invitation to participate, or, if higher, at par.
ii During a five year period, no more than 5% in aggregate of Options comprise, as nearly as possible, such number of the issued ordinary share capital of the company from time ordinary shares as may be purchased at the option price with to time may be issued pursuant to all of the employee the proceeds on maturity after either three, five or seven years share schemes operated by the company.
of the savings contract, and options may normally be exercised only within six months after the third, fifth or seventh iii During a ten year period, no more than 5% in aggregate of anniversary of the savings contract.
Options may not be the issued ordinary share capital of the company from time transferred or assigned.
to time may be issued pursuant to the executive scheme.
1 Option 2000 scheme iv During a four year period, no more than 2 2% in aggregate On 9 August 2000 and again on 4 April 2001, every qualifying of the issued ordinary share capital of the company from permanent member of staff in the Group received an option time to time may be issued pursuant to the executive scheme.
over 150 shares in the company.
The executive directors of the company waived their entitlement to the option granted on 4 v During a three year period, no more than 3% in aggregate April 2001.
Further grants over 150 shares have been made on of the issued ordinary share capital of the company from three separate occasions to employees joining the Group by time to time may be issued pursuant to the executive scheme.
way of acquisition, including a grant on 1 September 2004 to all employees of Charter One.
Under the plan, the amount of shares or options that vest ranges from nil to 200% of the award depending on the annual growth in the Groups earnings per share and its performance relative to that of a comparator group of companies principally from the UK financial services sector.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 196 Notes on the accounts continued 53 Significant differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles continued Stock-based compensation costs continued The following table shows options outstanding by normal exercise date.
An option life of 5 years, being the midpoint on the 10 year option, has been assumed for options granted under Group and former NatWest executive plans.
2004 2003 2002 Weighted Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average Number of average options exercise price options exercise price options exercise price Year exercisable 000s pence 000s pence 000s pence 2003 27,769 963 2004 31,817 1188 25,553 1226 196 2005 26,1171214 14,081 1112 15,473 1118 2006 10,8321421 11,822 1421 6,924 1447 2007 14,3601324 8,785 1351 9,265 1343 2008 8,7601327 9,110 1328 494 1364 2009 10,549 1423 809 1235 872 1235 2010 429 1307 487 1307 2011 763 1209 Total 71,8101312 76,911 1246 86,350 1153 If the compensation cost for the schemes had been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates consistent with the fair value method of SFAS 123, net income and earnings per share as adjusted to include stock compensation would have been as shown below: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Net income under US GAAP: As reported 3,948 2,564 3,108 Adjusted to include stock compensation 3,909 2,503 2,978 Basic earnings per share under US GAAP: As reported 128.0p 87.5p 107.9p Adjusted to include stock compensation 126.7p 85.4p 103.4p Diluted earnings per share under US GAAP: As reported 127.1p 86.8p 106.3p Adjusted to include stock compensation 125.9p 84.8p 101.8p The fair value of each option has been estimated as at the grant date using a Black-Scholes option pricing model using the following assumptions: 2004 2003 2002 Risk free interest rate 4.8% 5.2% 3.6% 4.6% 4.7%4.9% Volatility based on historical data 18% 29% 43% Dividend yield 3.3% 3.7% 2.9%4.1% 2.4%2.9% Expected lives of options granted under: Employee savings scheme 3, 5 and 7 years 3, 5 and 7 years 3, 5 and 7 years Executive scheme 3 to 10 years 3 to 10 years 3 to 10 years Option 2000 scheme 3 years 3 years 3 years The following table summarises fair values of options issued in each year: 2004 2003 2002 Exercise price Fair value Life Exercise price Fair value Life Exercise price Fair value Life Years Years Years Executive scheme 1 16.98 2.85 3 -10 13.48 2.91 3 -10 18.10 6.54 3 -10 Savings scheme 3 year 13.07 3.83 3 13.07 4.64 3 12.35 5.58 3 5 year 13.07 4.09 5 13.07 5.15 5 12.35 6.33 5 7 year 13.07 4.24 7 13.07 5.48 7 12.35 6.76 7 Option 2000 scheme 15.53 1.93 3 15.90 2.91 3 18.41 5.44 3 Note: 1 For the purposes of calculating a fair value on executive scheme options, an option life of 5 years, being the mid-point on the 10 year option, has been assumed.
Historical exercise trends have not been used as these are not felt to be indicative of future trends given changes to the scheme rules and participants in the scheme.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 197 Goodwill and intangible assets other than goodwill The Group fully implemented SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets from 1 January 2002.
Under this standard, goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives are not amortised and are subject to annual impairment tests.
Other intangible assets continue to be amortised over their useful lives.
The Group has completed the impairment tests required under SFAS 142 and no impairment has been recognised as a result.
Intangible assets other than goodwill A summary of the carrying value of intangible assets other than goodwill is as follows: 2004 2003 2002 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net 197 carrying Accumulated carrying carrying Accumulated carrying carrying Accumulated carrying amount amortisation amount amount amortisation amount amount amortisation amount m m m m m m m m m. Core deposit intangibles 690 205 485 459 149 310 461 108 353 Brands 367 3 364 338 338 Others 360 39 321 128 6 122 Total amortising intangible assets 1,417 247 1,170 925 155 770 461 108 353 The weighted average amortisation period of intangible assets, Securitisations other than goodwill, subject to amortisation are: The Group engages in securitisation activities pertaining to Years certain of its assets including US commercial and residential Core deposit intangibles 7 mortgage loans, commercial and residential mortgage related Brands 10 securities, US Government agency collateralised mortgage Others 8 obligations, and other types of financial assets.
Additionally, the Group acts as an underwriter and depositor in securitisation Amortisation charge on intangibles during 2004 was 115 transactions involving both client and proprietary transactions.
The Group The Group has classified these activities into three broad estimates amortisation expense for the next five years will be: securitisation categories, US Agency based, consumer based, m and commercial based securitisations.
2005 146 2006 145 During 2004, the Group received proceeds of approximately 2007 141 31.4 billion 2003 37.5 billion from securitisation trusts in 2008 133 connection with new securitisations.
2009 123 The Group recognised net pre-tax gains of approximately 111.1 million 2003 58.8 million relating to these securitisations.
Net pre-tax gains are based on the difference between the sales prices and previous carrying values of assets prior to date of sale, are net of transaction specific expenses, and exclude any results attributable to hedging activities, interest income, funding costs, changes in asset values prior to securitisation date, and retained interest values subsequent to securitisation date.
section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 198 Notes on the accounts continued 53 Significant differences between UK and US At 31 December 2004, the fair value of the Groups retained generally accepted accounting principles continued interests was approximately 1.4 billion 2003 1.5 billion.
Securitisations continued These retained interests comprises approximately 509 million In some instances, the Group retained certain interests.
The in US Agency based retained interests, 864 million in consumer Group typically does not retain a significant portion of the based retained interests and 56 million in commercial based loans or securities that it securitises.
This reduces the impact retained interests.
These retained interests primarily relate to that changes to fair values of retained interests might have on mortgage loans and securities and arose from securitisations the Groups financial results.
that have taken place in current and prior years.
The Groups retained interests may be subordinated to other Cash flows received in 2004 from retained interests held at 198 investors interests.
The investors and securitisation trusts have 31 December 2004 in connection with securitisations that took no recourse to the Groups other assets for failure of debtors to place in current and prior years amounted to approximately perform on the securitised loans or securities.
The value of the 383 million 2003 368 million.
retained interests varies and is subject to prepayment, credit and interest rate risks on the transferred assets.
Key economic assumptions used in measuring the value of retained interests at the date of securitisation resulting from securitisations completed during the year were as follows: U. S. Agency Consumer Commercial retained retained retained Assumptions interests interests interests Prepayment speed 184-480 PSA 4-45% CPR 1 0-100 CPY 2 Weighted average life 1-19 years 1-16 years 1-7 years Cash flow discount rate 2-27% 2-78% 2-12% Credit losses N A 3 0-2% CDR 4 N A 5 Key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current fair value of retained interests at 31 December 2004 to immediate adverse changes, as indicated below, in those assumptions are as follows: U. S. Agency Consumer Commercial retained retained retained Assumptions impact on fair value interests interests interests Fair value of retained interests at 31 December 2004 509m 864m 56m Prepayment speed 6 12-35% CPR 1 4-45% CPR 1 0-100% CPY 2 Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change 0.3m 16.6m Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change 0.4m 32.8m Weighted average life 1-18 years 1-11 years 1-7 years Cash flow discount rate 2-33% 2-78% 2-12% Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change 9.4m 20.0m 0.6m Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change 18.4m 38.7m 1.2m Credit losses N A 3 0-2% CDR 4 N A 5 Impact on fair value of 10% adverse change N A 7.0m N A Impact on fair value of 20% adverse change N A 14.3m N A Notes: 1 Constant prepayment rate the CPR range represents the low and high points of a dynamic CPR curve 2 CPR with yield maintenance provision 3 Population consists of securities whose collateral is guaranteed by US Government Sponsored Entities and therefore, no credit loss has been assumed.
4 Constant default rate 5 Population consists of only investment grade senior tranches: therefore, no credit losses are included in the assumptions at deal settlement.
6 Prepayment speed has been stressed on an overall portfolio basis for US Agency retained interests due to the overall homogeneous nature of the collateral.
Consumer and Commercial retained interests have been stressed on a security level basis.
The sensitivities depicted in the preceding table are retained interest is calculated without changing any other hypothetical and should be used with caution.
This might not be the case in actual market those percent variations selected for sensitivity testing is not conditions since changes in one factor might result in changes necessarily indicative of expected market movements because to other factors.
Further, the sensitivities depicted above do not the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the consider any corrective actions that the Group might take to change in fair value may not be linear.
Also, the effect of a mitigate the effect of any adverse changes in one or more key variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of a assumptions.
Notes on the accounts RBS Annual Report 136-199 7 3 05 11:16 am Page 199 Consolidation 54 Post balance sheet events Special purpose entities SPEs There have been no significant events between the year end The Group is the primary beneficiary of a number of commercial and the date of approval of these accounts which would paper conduits and other asset securitisation vehicles that require a change to or disclosure in the accounts.
meet FIN 46Rs definition of a variable interest entity.
These entities, with total assets of 8.6 billion at 31 December 2004 2003 6.9 billion, acquire financial assets from third parties or from the Group funded by the issue of commercial paper or other debt instruments.
The Group supplies certain administrative services and provides credit enhancement, liquidity facilities 199 and derivative transactions to some or all of these entities on an arms length basis.
In the case of commercial paper conduits, the Group provides programme-wide credit enhancement by letters of credit or loan facilities across all tranches of assets funded by conduits.
Trust preferred securities The trust preferred securities referred to in Note 32 on page 167 represent undivided beneficial interests in the assets of trusts, which consist of partnership preferred securities representing non-cumulative perpetual preferred limited partnership interests issued by Delaware limited partnerships.
The Group has provided subordinated guarantees for the benefit of the holders of the trust preferred securities and the partnership preferred securities.
Under the terms of the guarantees, the Group has fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a subordinated basis, payments on such trust preferred securities and partnership preferred securities, to the extent they are due to be paid and have not been paid by, or on behalf of the trusts and the partnerships, as the case may be.
The trust preferred securities and partnership preferred securities issued by the Groups subsidiaries are deconsolidated, resulting in a US GAAP balance sheet reclassification from minority interests to subordinated liabilities.
The effect on US GAAP net income and equity is negligible.
section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notes on the accounts Financial statements RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 200 200 RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 201 Additional information Contents 201 202 Five year financial summary 206 Analysis of loans and advances to customers 207 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts 210 Risk elements in lending and potential problem loans 211 Analysis of deposits 212 Short term borrowings 212 Certificates of deposit and other time deposits 213 Exchange rates 214 Off balance sheet arrangements 216 Economic and monetary environment 216 Supervision and regulation 220 Description of property and equipment 220 Major shareholders 220 Material contracts section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 202 Additional information Five year financial summary The Groups accounts are prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, which differs in certain material respects from US GAAP.
For a discussion of such differences and a reconciliation between UK GAAP and US GAAP, see Note 53 on the accounts.
The dollar financial information included below has been translated for convenience at the rate of 1.00 to US$1.916, the Noon Buying Rate on 31 December 2004.
It is not practicable to restate prior years.
2 Includes integration expenditure of 269 million for the year ended 31 December 2004 2003 229 million: 2002 957 million: 2001 875 million: 2000 389 million.
For further information, see Notes 6 and 7 on the accounts.
Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 205 Other financial data 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Other financial data based upon UK GAAP 1 : Earnings per ordinary share pence 138.0 76.9 70.6 67.6 66.9 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 2 136.9 76.3 69.6 66.3 66.2 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share pence 172.5 157.2 146.3 127.9 101.2 Dividends per ordinary share pence 58.0 50.3 43.7 38.0 33.0 Dividend payout ratio 43.2% 66.1% 62.3% 58.1% 56.1% Share price per ordinary share at period end 17.52 16.46 14.88 16.72 15.82 205 Market capitalisation at period end bn 55.6 48.8 43.2 47.8 42.4 Net asset value per ordinary share 8.62 7.82 7.43 7.79 7.08 Return on average total assets 3 0.82% 0.51% 0.52% 0.53% 0.58% Return on average equity shareholders funds 4 16.0% 9.8% 8.8% 8.9% 9.9% Adjusted return on average equity shareholders funds 5 20.1% 20.1% 18.3% 16.8% 14.9% Average shareholders equity as a percentage of average total assets 5.7% 5.9% 6.8% 7.2% 7.2% Risk asset ratio Tier 1 7.0% 7.4% 7.3% 7.1% 6.9% Risk asset ratio Total 11.7% 11.8% 11.7% 11.5% 11.5% Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preference share dividends 6 including interest on deposits 1.84 1.95 1.74 1.49 1.32 excluding interest on deposits 7.09 7.08 5.20 4.45 3.49 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges only 6 including interest on deposits 1.90 2.04 1.83 1.55 1.37 excluding interest on deposits 9.26 9.73 7.24 6.52 4.81 Other financial data based upon US GAAP: Basic earnings per ordinary share pence 128.0 87.5 107.9 74.7 89.5 Diluted earnings per ordinary share pence 2 127.1 86.8 106.3 73.2 88.5 Dividends per ordinary share pence 52.5 45.6 39.7 34.5 29.8 Dividend payout ratio 40.2% 51.9% 36.7% 45.7% 20.6% Return on average total assets 3 0.71% 0.55% 0.75% 0.57% 0.77% Return on average equity shareholders funds 4 12.8% 9.5% 12.1% 8.8% 12.0% Average shareholders equity as a percentage of average total assets 6.1% 6.5% 7.3% 7.7% 7.7% Ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preference share dividends 6 including interest on deposits 1.76 1.98 1.97 1.51 1.41 excluding interest on deposits 6.46 7.24 6.49 4.63 4.19 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges only 6 including interest on deposits 1.81 2.07 2.07 1.59 1.46 excluding interest on deposits 8.44 9.96 9.03 6.98 5.77 Notes: 1 The years ended 31 December 2003 and 2002 have been restated following the implementation of FRS 17.
2 Convertible preference shares totalling nil 2003 and 2002 200 million: 2001 and 2000 800 million, nil 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000 750 million and $1,500 million 2003, 2002, 2001 and 2000 $1,900 million have not been included in the computation of diluted earnings per share as their effect is anti-dilutive.
section 3 Return on average total assets represents profit attributable to ordinary shareholders as a percentage of average total assets.
4 Return on average equity shareholders funds represents profit attributable to ordinary shareholders expressed as a percentage of average equity shareholders funds.
04 5 Adjusted return on average equity shareholders funds represents profit attributable to ordinary shareholders before integration costs, goodwill amortisation and the AVS dividend, expressed as a percentage of average equity shareholders funds.
6 For this purpose, earnings consist of income before tax and minority interests, plus fixed charges less the unremitted income of associated undertakings share of profits less dividends received.
Fixed charges consist of total interest expense, including or excluding interest on deposits and debt securities in issue, as appropriate, and the proportion of rental expense deemed representative of the interest factor one third of total rental expenses.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Additional information Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 206 Additional information continued Analysis of loans and advances to customers The following table analyses loans and advances to customers before provisions by remaining maturity, geographical area and type of customer.
Overdrafts are included in the Within 1 year category.
The following table shows the elements of provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
2 Closing customer provisions exclude closing provisions against loans and advances to banks.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Additional information Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 208 Additional information continued Provisions for bad and doubtful debts continued The following table presents additional information with respect to the provisions for bad and doubtful debts.
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Loans and advances to customers gross 349,691 256,453 227,244 194,137 171,215 Provisions at end of period: Specific provisions customers 3,648 3,356 3,323 3,031 2,571 Specific provisions banks 6 778 14 208 General provision 574 566 597 614 568 4,228 3,929 3,927 3,653 3,153 Customer provision at end of period as % of loans and advances to customers at end of period: Specific provisions 1.04% 1.31% 1.46% 1.56% 1.50% General provision 0.17% 0.22% 0.26% 0.32% 0.33% 1.21% 1.53% 1.72% 1.88% 1.83% Average loans and advances to customers gross 298,150 245,798 211,206 181,584 142,288 As a % of average loans and advances to customers during the period: Total customer provisions charged to profit and loss 0.48% 0.59% 0.61% 0.54% 0.39% Amounts written-off net of recoveries customers 0.44% 0.59% 0.46% 0.42% 0.44% Analysis of closing provisions for bad and doubtful debts The following table analyses customer provisions for bad and doubtful debts by geographical area and type of domestic customer.
Analysis of recoveries The following table analyses recoveries of amounts written-off by geographical area and type of domestic customer.
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Domestic Manufacturing 1 1 2 12 Construction 1 13 Finance 2 1 3 Service industries and business activities 1 315 45 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 3 Property 116 Individuals home mortgages 1 Individuals others 81 26 27 41 57 Finance leases and instalment credit 2 973 3 Total domestic 88 38 37 54 142 Foreign 59 34 26 26 22 Total recoveries 147 72 63 80 164 section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Additional information Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 210 Additional information continued Risk elements in lending and potential problem loans The Groups loan control and review procedures do not include the classification of loans as non-accrual, accruing past due, restructured and potential problem loans, as defined by the SEC in the US.
The following table shows the estimated amount of loans that would be reported using the SECs classifications.
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Loans accounted for on a non-accrual basis 3 : Domestic 3,705 3,221 3,077 2,829 2,482 Foreign 1,075 1,211 1,098 737 344 210 Total 4,780 4,432 4,175 3,566 2,826 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest 4 : Domestic 646 561 363 643 662 Foreign 79 81 129 142 168 Total 725 642 492 785 830 Loans not included above which are classified as troubled debt restructurings by the SEC: Domestic 14 53 144 26 43 Foreign 10 30 60 116 122 Total 24 83 204 142 165 Total risk elements in lending 5,529 5,157 4,871 4,493 3,821 Potential problem loans 5 Domestic 173 492 639 801 699 Foreign 107 99 544 279 73 Total potential problem loans 280 591 1,183 1,080 772 Closing provisions for bad and doubtful debts as a % of total risk elements in lending 76% 76% 80% 81% 82% Closing provisions for bad and doubtful debts as a % of total risk elements in lending and potential problem loans 73% 68% 65% 65% 68% Risk elements in lending as a % of gross loans and advances to customers 1.58% 2.01% 2.14% 2.31% 2.23% Notes: 1 For the analysis above, Domestic consists of the UK domestic transactions of the Group.
Foreign comprises the Groups transactions conducted through offices outside the UK and through those offices in the UK specifically organised to service international banking transactions.
2 The classification of a loan as non-accrual, past due 90 days or troubled debt restructuring does not necessarily indicate that the principal of the loan is uncollectable in whole or in part.
3 The Groups UK banking subsidiary undertakings account for loans on a non-accrual basis from the point in time at which the collectability of interest is in significant doubt.
4 Overdrafts generally have no fixed repayment schedule and consequently are not included in this category.
5 Loans that are current as to the payment of principal and interest but in respect of which management has serious doubts about the ability of the borrower to comply with contractual repayment terms.
Substantial security is held in respect of these loans and appropriate provisions have already been made in accordance with the Groups provisioning policy for bad and doubtful debts.
2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 m m m m m Gross income not recognised but which would have been recognised under the original terms of non-accrual and restructured loans Domestic 237 237 234 173 148 Foreign 58 55 73 60 48 295 292 307 233 196 Interest on non-accrual and restructured loans included in net interest income Domestic 58 60 47 42 30 Foreign 7 37 14 8 65 63 54 56 38 Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 211 Analysis of deposits product analysis The following table shows the distribution of the Groups deposits by type and geographical area: 2004 2003 2002 m m m UK Domestic: Demand deposits interest-free 22,249 20,567 22,067 Demand deposits interest-bearing 78,178 78,670 66,118 Time deposits savings 18,205 13,238 12,180 211 Time deposits other 68,662 57,994 59,819 Overseas residents: Demand deposits interest-free 376 830 908 Demand deposits interest-bearing 12,740 9,559 8,897 Time deposits savings 836 1,014 1,559 Time deposits other 64,141 32,531 21,824 Total UK offices 265,387 214,403 193,372 Overseas Demand deposits interest-free 10,371 7,937 6,698 Demand deposits interest-bearing 12,975 7,471 10,148 Time deposits savings 21,153 15,450 15,189 Time deposits other 74,257 59,025 48,474 Total overseas offices see below 118,756 89,883 80,509 Total deposits 384,143 304,286 273,881 Banking business 303,328 251,986 230,144 Trading business 80,815 52,300 43,737 Total deposits 384,143 304,286 273,881 Overseas US 86,677 67,019 61,738 Rest of the World 32,079 22,864 18,771 Total overseas 118,756 89,883 80,509 Analysis of deposits currency analysis The following table shows the distribution of deposits by banks and customer accounts by sterling and other currencies: 2004 2003 2002 m m m Deposits by banks Sterling 18,958 14,574 10,998 Other currencies 80,123 52,749 43,722 Total deposits by banks 99,081 67,323 54,720 Customer accounts section Sterling 161,636 142,551 133,404 Other currencies 123,426 94,412 85,757 04 Total customer accounts 285,062 236,963 219,161 Total deposits 384,143 304,286 273,881 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Additional information Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 212 Additional information continued Short term borrowings 2004 2003 2002 m m m Commercial paper Outstanding at year end 8,391 6,968 3,515 Maximum outstanding at any month end during the year 8,391 7,032 3,515 Approximate average amount during the year 7,450 5,499 868 Approximate weighted average interest rate during the year 1.9% 1.6% 2.0% Approximate weighted average interest rate at year end 2.6% 1.5% 1.6% 212 Other short term borrowings Outstanding at year end 95,381 84,795 72,069 Maximum outstanding at any month end during the year 96,356 94,570 72,264 Approximate average amount during the year 85,496 78,004 58,246 Approximate weighted average interest rate during the year 2.9% 2.2% 2.9% Approximate weighted average interest rate at year end 3.1% 2.0% 2.2% Average interest rates during the year are computed by rates.
Original maturities of commercial paper are not in dividing total interest expense by the average amount excess of one year.
Other short-term borrowings consist borrowed.
Average interest rates at year end are average rates principally of borrowings in the money markets included within for a single day and as such may reflect one-day market Deposits by banks and Customer accounts in the accounts, distortions which may not be indicative of generally prevailing and generally have original maturities of one year or less.
Certificates of deposit and other time deposits The following table shows details of the Groups certificates of deposit and other time deposits over $100,000 or equivalent by remaining maturity.
Over 3 months Over 6 months Within but within but within Over 2004 3 months 6 months 12 months 12 months Total m m m m m UK based companies and branches Certificates of deposit 18,574 3,071 1,837 66 23,548 Other time deposits 116,623 6,468 6,051 3,224 132,366 Overseas based companies and branches Certificates of deposit 6,703 2,674 1,719 1,594 12,690 Other time deposits 44,260 4,209 2,007 6,226 56,702 Total 186,160 16,422 11,614 11,110 225,306 Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 213 Exchange rates Except as stated, the following tables show, for the dates or periods indicated, the Noon Buying Rate in New York for cable transfers in sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate : January December November October September August US dollars per 1 2005 2004 2004 2004 2004 2004 Noon Buying Rate High 1.9058 1.9482 1,9073 1.8404 1.8105 1.8459 Low 1.8647 1.9125 1,8323 1.7790 1.7733 1.7921 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 213 Noon Buying Rate Period end rate 1.9160 1.7842 1.6095 1.4543 1.4955 Average rate for the period 1 1.8356 1.6450 1.5043 1.4396 1.5204 Consolidation rate 2 Period end rate 1.9346 1.7857 1.6128 1.4498 1.4925 Average rate for the period 1.8325 1.6354 1.5032 1.4401 1.5160 Notes: 1 The average of the Noon Buying Rates on the last business day of each month during the period.
2 The rates used by the Group for translating dollars into sterling in the preparation of its financial statements.
section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Additional information Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 214 Additional information continued Off balance sheet arrangements As financial intermediary, the Group arranges securitisations of The Group is involved with several types of off-balance sheet client assets.
These include multi-seller commercial paper arrangements, including special purpose vehicles, lending conduits and client intermediation transactions.
The Group has commitments and financial guarantees.
established a number of SPVs to act as commercial paper conduits.
These allow customers to access liquidity in the Special purpose vehicles SPVs commercial paper market by selling assets to the conduit that SPVs are vehicles set up for a specific, limited purpose, do not funds the purchase by issuing commercial paper to third carry out a business or trade and typically have no employees.
The Group supplies certain services and contingent They take a variety of legal forms trusts, partnerships and liquidity support to some or all of these vehicles on an arms companies and fulfil many different functions.
They constitute length basis as well as programme credit enhancement.
Other 214 a key element of securitisation transactions in which an SPV client securitisations arranged by the Group involve individual acquires financial assets funded by the issue of securities.
SPVs established to purchase customer assets financed by the issue of debt obligations to third parties.
The Group may act In the normal course of business, the Group arranges as advisor to the manager of the SPV and provide liquidity securitisations to facilitate client transactions and undertakes facilities to it.
securitisations to sell financial assets or to obtain funding.
It has established a number of SPVs to act as commercial paper Under UK GAAP the Group accounts for fees received from conduits for customers.
SPVs are also utilised in its fund client securitisations in line with its usual policy for similar fees management activities to structure investment funds to which from other banking activities.
Undrawn liquidity lines are the Group provides investment management services.
included within undrawn commitments in Note 41 on page 178: any drawn amounts will be included in loans and advances.
Under UK GAAP, the Group accounts for securitisations of The assets and liabilities of the SPVs are not recognised on the assets originated by the Group in accordance with FRS 5 Groups balance sheet unless the SPV is a quasi-subsidiary of Reporting the Substance of Transactions.
A quasi-subsidiary is defined in FRS 5 as a derecognised and a gain or loss on disposal recognised if all company, trust, partnership or other vehicle, that, though not significant rights or access to benefits relating to those assets fulfilling the definition of a subsidiary, is directly or indirectly and all significant risks in those benefits are transferred to controlled by the reporting entity and gives rise to benefits for others.
In cases where there is a significant change in the that entity that are in substance no different from those that entitys rights to benefit and exposure to risk, the description or would arise were the vehicle a subsidiary.
monetary amount relating to an asset should be changed and a liability recognised for any obligation to transfer benefits that Following the issue of FASB Interpretation FIN No.
Where a transaction in previously recognised the Group has consolidated SPVs acting as commercial paper assets results in no significant change in the entitys rights to conduits and involved in other asset-backed transactions in its benefits in the assets or its exposure to risks inherent in those US GAAP disclosures.
Further information on FIN 46R can be benefits, the assets should continue to be recognised and no found in Note 53 on page 199. gain or loss recognised.
FRS 5 requires a linked presentation where a transaction is in substance the financing of an asset Lending commitments and other commitments or pool of assets but where the item is financed in such a way Under a loan commitment, the Group agrees to make funds that the Group can suffer a loss which is limited to a fixed available to a customer in the future.
Loan commitments, which monetary amount.
The linked presentation involves showing the are usually for a specified term, may be unconditionally gross amount of assets securitised less the related finance on cancellable or may persist, provided all conditions in the loan the face of the balance sheet the net amount is included in facility are satisfied or waived.
Commitments to lend include total assets.
Profit is recognised on entering into the commercial standby facilities and credit lines, liquidity facilities arrangement only to the extent that non-returnable proceeds to commercial paper conduits and unutilised overdraft facilities.
exceed the previous carrying value of the assets securitised.
Other commitments include documentary credits, which are The Group securitises mortgage loans and other assets.
commercial letters of credit providing for payment by the Group to a named beneficiary against presentation of Under US GAAP, transfers of financial assets are accounted for specified documents, forward asset purchases, forward and reported based on the application of a financialdeposits placed and undrawn note issuance and revolving components approach that focuses on control.
approach, after a transfer of financial assets, the Group recognises the assets it controls and the liabilities it has Guarantees and other contingent liabilities incurred, derecognises financial assets when control has been The Group gives guarantees on behalf of customers.
A surrendered, and derecognises liabilities when extinguished.
financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that the Group will meet a customers obligations to third parties if Transfers of financial assets where the Group has surrendered the customer fails to do so.
The maximum amount that the control over the transferred assets are accounted for as sales Group could be required to pay under a guarantee is its and any gain or loss recognised in earnings.
The Group expects most guarantees it transfers are accounted for as collateralised borrowings.
Other contingent liabilities include contingent liabilities arising out of acceptances, endorsements, Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 215 standby letters of credit, performance and customs bonds, designated by the Bank of England are eligible for rediscount warranties and indemnities.
In accepting a bill of exchange at the Bank of England.
In endorsing a bill of exchange, a drawn on it by a customer a bank undertakes to pay the holder bank accepts liability for payment of any shortfall on the bill at of the bill at maturity.
Most acceptances are presented for maturity.
Unlike acceptances, the endorsing bank receives payment and reimbursement by the customer is usually value for the bill, which is then rediscounted.
In the UK, bills accepted by certain banks The Groups contingent liabilities and commitments are set out below.
More than More than 1 year but 3 years but 215 Less than less than less than Over 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Total 2004 m m m m m Acceptances and endorsements 362 362 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 3,974 1,729 1,893 2,842 10,438 Other contingent liabilities 2,714 785 293 1,501 5,293 Documentary credits and trade related transactions 135 30 6 11 182 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 118,367 23,045 21,216 16,602 179,230 Other commitments 746 385 234 1,365 Total 126,298 25,974 23,408 21,190 196,870 More than More than 1 year but 3 years but Less than less than less than Over 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Total 2003 m m m m m Acceptances and endorsements 595 595 Guarantees and assets pledged as collateral security 4,632 1,422 782 1,951 8,787 Other contingent liabilities 1,872 987 351 2,272 5,482 Documentary credits and trade related transactions 368 210 2 25 605 Undrawn formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend 95,062 18,082 14,053 10,054 137,251 Other commitments 1,304 476 15 42 1,837 Total 103,833 21,177 15,203 14,344 154,557 Contractual obligations The table below summarises the Groups contractual cash obligations by remaining maturity.
More than More than 1 year but 3 years but Less than less than less than Over 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Total 2004 m m m m m Contractual cash obligations Dated loan capital 371 527 2,863 7,252 11,013 Operating leases 328 597 535 2,246 3,706 Finance leases 17 38 11 126 192 Unconditional obligations to purchase goods or services 552 346 148 152 1,198 Total 1,268 1,508 3,557 9,776 16,109 section More than More than 1 year but 3 years but 04 Less than less than less than Over 1 year 3 years 5 years 5 years Total 2003 m m m m m Contractual cash obligations Dated loan capital 709 691 1,034 6,878 9,312 Operating leases 262 479 434 2,124 3,299 Finance leases 19 29 8 126 182 Unconditional obligations to purchase goods or services 661 211 3 875 Total 1,651 1,410 1,479 9,128 13,668 The tables above do not include undated loan capital.
The maturity of deposits by banks is given in Note 23 on the accounts, of customer accounts in Note 24, and of debt securities in issue in Note 25.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Additional information Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 216 Additional information continued Economic and monetary environment Euro notes and coins were introduced into circulation on 1 Monetary policy January 2002 in accordance with the Maastricht Treaty, which The Groups earnings are affected by domestic and global required that legacy currency notes and coins be withdrawn by economic conditions.
The policies of the UK government, and 30 June 2002.
"Also on 1 January 1999, the European Central of governments in other countries in which the Group operates, Bank ""ECB"" assumed responsibility for the operation of also have an impact."
monetary policy throughout the euro zone.
The ECB sets one short-term interest rate to cover all twelve countries.
The UK government sets an inflation target, which changed in December 2003 from a 2.5% target based on the retail prices The UK government continues to support EMU entry in principle, index excluding mortgage interest payments to a 2% target based but has decided the UK will not adopt the single currency until 216 on the consumer prices index, in line with other European countries.
it is in the UKs economic interests, with a positive referendum vote.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer has laid down five key The Bank of England has operational independence in setting economic conditions for UK participation.
An assessment of the repo rate to achieve the inflation target.
The Bank was given these five tests took place in June 2003, resulting in the independence by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1997, with publication of HM Treasurys assessment, the 18 supporting the aim of making monetary policy free from political influence, EMU studies, and a third outline National Changeover Plan.
and therefore more stable and credible.
"The Banks Monetary While indicating that these five economic tests have yet to be Policy Committee ""MPC"" meets each month to agree any change fully met, the government has set out a programme of economic to interest rates, and the minutes of these meetings are reforms and structural assessments necessary to achieve published two weeks later."
One-off meetings can also be held readiness for entry.
The Chancellor made a progress statement in exceptional circumstances.
In response to the downturn in in Budget 2004, at which point he decided not to undertake an the global economy and the terrorist attacks, the Bank of immediate further assessment of the entry tests.
England, along with other major central banks around the world, cut rates sharply in 2001.
Rates remained at exceptionally low The Group continues to co-operate with the UK government, and levels throughout 2002, and were reduced again in the first half of to work within the financial services sector, to develop thinking 2003, reflecting the uncertain nature of the global and domestic and plans regarding a range of practical issues that would arise economic circumstances.
However, signs of recovery in the global if the UK were to decide to enter EMU.
In particular, the Group economy led the Bank of England to increase rates five times continues its involvement in discussions as to how a phased since November 2003, to 4.75%.
transition could be achieved, in order to minimise cost and risk.
In addition, due attention is being paid to the implications, for The value of sterling is also important for UK monetary elements of the Group and for customers, of the introduction of conditions.
The monetary authorities do not have an exchange euro notes and coins and the withdrawal of sterling.
rate target, but movements in sterling played a role in the MPCs monthly debates.
Uncertainty continues on the likelihood and timing of the euro being introduced in the UK.
It is not possible to estimate with European Economic and Monetary Union EMU any degree of certainty the ultimate cost of making systems The new European single currency, the euro, came into being and operations fully compliant.
Expenditure in the year ended on 1 January 1999.
The third stage of EMU started on 31 December 2004 in preparation for the possible introduction schedule on 1 January 1999.
During the course of 1998, it was of the euro in the UK was minimal.
determined that eleven countries Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Supervision and regulation Portugal and Spain would participate.
The UK, along with 1 United Kingdom Denmark, exercised its right to opt out at that stage, and 1.1 The regulatory regime applying to the Sweden also determined not to be part of this first wave.
"UK financial services industry The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA On 31 December 1998, the European Currency Unit the 2000, containing an integrated legislative framework for ""ECU"" was replaced by the euro on the international currency regulating most of the UK financial services industry, came markets, on a one-for-one basis."
The rates for the euro against into force at the end of 2001.
This established the other international currencies were based upon the official Financial Services Authority the FSA as the single closing rates for the ECU.
The bilateral rates for the legacy statutory regulator responsible for regulating deposit currencies of the participating states were derived from their taking, insurance and investment business in the UK.
rates within the Exchange Rate Mechanism and the closing value of the ECU.
These rates, between the legacy currencies Under the FSMA 2000, businesses require the FSAs and between these currencies and the euro, were fixed as of 1 permission to undertake specified types of activities January 1999.
The euro became the formal currency for all including entering into and carrying out contracts of eleven then-participating states.
insurance: managing, dealing in or advising on, investments: accepting deposits: and issuing electronic money regulated activities.
The FSA has published detailed regulatory requirements contained in a Handbook of Rules and Guidance.
Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 217 The FSAs statutory objectives are to maintain confidence Setting standards for firms in, and to promote public understanding of, the UK The FSA carries out the prudential supervision and financial system: to secure an appropriate degree of conduct of business regulation of all authorised firms and consumer protection: and to reduce the scope for financial also regulates the conduct of their business in the UK.
In achieving these objectives, the FSA must take account of certain principles of good regulation which Currently, the application of its conduct of business rules include recognising the responsibilities of authorised firms to banking business and general insurance business is own management, facilitating innovation and competition limited but the FSA assumed powers to regulate general and acting proportionately in imposing burdens on the insurance intermediation activities from January 2005 as industry.
217 1.2 Authorised firms in the Group Prudential supervision includes monitoring the adequacy As at 31 December 2004, 35 companies in the Group, of a firms management, its financial resources and spanning a range of financial services sectors banking, internal systems and controls.
Firms are required to submit insurance and investment business, are authorised and regular returns to the FSA which provide material for regulated to conduct regulated activities by the FSA.
Different prudential requirements companies are referred to as authorised firms.
have applied to different sectors of the financial services industry.
However, the FSA has prepared an Integrated The FSA supervises the banking business of the UK based Prudential Sourcebook IPSB aimed at applying a more banks in the Group, including The Royal Bank of Scotland harmonised and consistent approach to prudential plc The Royal Bank, National Westminster Bank Plc regulation across the whole industry.
From 1 January 2005, NatWest, Coutts & Co, Ulster Bank Limited and Tesco insurers were the first industry segment to comply with the Personal Finance Limited.
Implementation for the remainder of the industry is expected in stages, from 1 General insurance business is principally undertaken by January 2005 until 1 January 2008.
RBS Insurance Group, whilst life assurance business is undertaken by Royal Scottish Assurance plc and The EU Financial Groups Directive came into force on 1 National Westminster Life Assurance Limited with the January 2005 and was implemented as part of the FSAs Groups partner, the AVIVA Group and Direct Line Life IPSB requirements.
This will create an additional set of Insurance Company Limited.
Investment management regulatory requirements recognising the insurance, business is principally undertaken by companies in the investment and banking business of certain financial Wealth Management Division, including Adam & Co sector groups as financial conglomerates.
Investment Management Limited, and Coutts & Co Investment Management Limited, and in the Corporate Many of the standards relating to the capital, which firms Banking & Financial Markets Division, RBS Asset must hold to absorb losses arising from risks to its Management Ltd. business, are determined by EU legislation or are negotiated internationally.
The current capital adequacy 1.3 The FSAs regulatory approach and supervisory standards regime requires firms to maintain certain levels of capital, The regulatory regime focuses on the risks to the FSA of of certain specified types or tiers, against particular not meeting its statutory objectives and uses the full range business risks.
of regulatory tools including the authorisation of firms, rule-making, supervision, investigation and enforcement A parallel process of reviewing and revising the current EU available to the FSA.
It is founded on a risk based, Capital Adequacy requirements is also underway.
This will integrated approach to regulation.
impact on all European banks and investment firms.
The EU Capital Requirements Directive is currently being The FSA can request information from and give directions reviewed by the EU Parliament prior to National section to, authorised firms.
It may also require authorised firms to implementation by 1 January 2008.
In the UK, the relevant provide independent reports prepared by professionals.
changes will be implemented via changes to the FSAs IPSB.
04 The FSA can exercise indirect control over the holding companies of authorised firms via its statutory powers to In its supervisory role, the FSA sets requirements relating object to persons who are, or will become, controllers of to matters such as consolidated supervision, capital these firms.
adequacy, liquidity, large exposures, and the adequacy of accounting procedures and controls.
Banks are required to As part of its regulatory approach the FSA carries out set out their policy on large exposures and to inform the regular risk assessments of the firms in the Group and FSA of this.
The policy must be reviewed annually and any they are subject generally to direct and on-going FSA significant departures from policies must be discussed with supervision.
Large exposures must be monitored and controlled.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Additional information Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 218 Additional information continued Supervision and regulation continued this issue, and this activity will continue into 2005.
The As regards the insurance industry, the FSAs primary FSA have indicated that they will include assessment of objective is to regulate and supervise the industry so that firms effectiveness in this area in the firms ARROW policyholders have confidence that they have bought assessments from 2005. appropriate products, that UK insurers are able to meet their liabilities and that they treat customers fairly.
The FSA The Financial Services Compensation Scheme financed sets requirements relating to margins of solvency i. e. the by levies on authorised firms is available to provide excess of the value of assets over the amount of compensation up to certain limits if a firm collapses owing liabilities.
Companies carrying out insurance business money to investors, depositors or policyholders.
are required to submit regular returns covering reserves 218 and solvency to the FSA.
1.5 Fraud Towards the end of October 2004, the FSA launched its On 15 January 2005, the FSA commenced regulation of new policy on combating fraud in the financial services the sale and administration of general insurance and industry Fighting Fraud in Partnership.
The FSA is certain other types of insurance contracts.
working on a programme of activities focusing on i actions that the FSA will take, ii FSA support for work by Firms must also meet standards relating to senior trade associations and the industry, iii creating closer management and internal systems and controls and must relationships with law enforcement agencies and, iv the comply with rules designed to reduce the scope for firms Government making fraud a higher law enforcement to be used for money laundering.
Revised Joint Money priority leading the development of a fraud strategy.
Laundering Steering Group Guidance Notes came into force in 2004.
The EU published its draft Third Money 1.6 Enforcement Laundering Directive which aims to consolidate the two Where appropriate, the FSA may discipline and or previous Anti Money Laundering Directives.
prosecute for breaches of the legislative or regulatory Implementation is expected in 2006. requirements.
The FSA works closely with the criminal authorities and uses both civil and criminal powers.
It can Conduct of business standards essentially govern key withdraw a firms authorisation, discipline firms and aspects of firms relationships with customers, and require individuals, prosecute for various offences and require the provision of clear and adequate information, the funds to be returned to customers.
managing of conflicts of interest and the recommending of products suitable to the needs of customers.
The The FSA also has powers under certain consumer marketing of financial products particularly investment legislation to take action against authorised firms to products is subject to detailed requirements.
address unfair terms in financial services consumer contracts.
FSA rules relating to the provision of advice on packaged products i. e. personal pensions, life 1.7 Extension of the FSAs responsibilities assurance and collective investment schemes were From 31 October 2004, the scope of the FSAs changed on 1 December 2004.
The previous rules responsibilities was widened to cover the regulation and required businesses either to be independent or tied to supervision of mortgage lending and administration and only one product provider.
The FSA has now abolished the provision of mortgage advice.
Arrangements relating to these rules.
There is a six month transitional period for the sale and administration of general insurance and firms to amend their documentation and processes.
Firms certain other insurance contracts became regulated from can continue to be independent or they can associate 15 January 2005.
These activities are undertaken by themselves in a variety of ways with many product companies in the Group and this extension of the scope of providers.
The changes are not expected to have any statutory regulation is likely to have a significant impact on significant impact on RBSG.
how the relevant businesses operate in the future.
1.4 Focus on customers 1.8 Other relevant UK agencies and Government departments An important element in securing an appropriate degree of Consumer credit issues are covered by the Department of consumer protection is ensuring that suitable Trade and Industry DTI and the Office of Fair Trading arrangements are made for dealing with customer OFT and competition issues are dealt with by the OFT.
Firms are required to establish appropriate internal complaint handling procedures and to report The business of granting consumer credit is heavily complaints statistics to the FSA.
Where an issue cannot be regulated.
Aspects of the consumer credit business are resolved by the parties it may be referred for independent under review, at both national and EU levels.
Some assessment to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
changes to UK legislation were implemented from October 2004 primarily changes to advertising requirements, with The FSAs high level principles require all regulated firms to others coming into force in May 2005 and legislation to treat their customers fairly.
Since 2000 the FSA has further amend the UK regime scheduled for 2005.
An EU undertaken a number of industry wide thematic reviews on Consumer Credit Directive is also under negotiation.
Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 219 1.9 The European dimension and Charter One, which was acquired by Citizens in An increasing amount of national financial services August 2004 is regulated by the Office of the Comptroller regulation, in the UK and in other Member States, of the Currency.
emanates from the European Union.
An extensive programme of legislation under the EUs Financial 3 Regulatory developments for capital and risk management Services Action Plan is nearly complete, aiming to develop The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, which key aspects of the single European market in financial meets at the Bank of International Settlements in services across its now 25 countries.
This Plan includes Switzerland, sets the standards for firms weighted risk significant measures such as the endorsement of asset calculations and associated regulatory capital International Accounting Standards, revisions of EU triggers.
This Committee published a revised framework, 219 Company Law, the updated Investment Services Directive called Basel 2, in June 2004.
Full adoption of these new and Directives on Market Abuse, Distance Marketing in rules is expected by January 2008.
Consumer Financial Services, and Takeovers.
Some changes were implemented in 2004, others are still being Application of Basel 2 differs between jurisdictions.
In the implemented, with important proposals such as the legal EU, the Accord becomes law through the Capital framework for a single European payments area still in Requirements Directive CRD CAD3 and associated development.
A debate was launched by the European changes to national laws or regulatory guidelines for Commission in 2004 around future EU action relating to example the FSAs Integrated Prudential Sourcebook.
financial services, beyond major existing projects such as Within the US, regulators have the flexibility to implement the Capital Requirements Directive.
the Accord directly, after a Final Notice of Prudential Rulemaking.
The EU is applying the Accord to all banks 2 United States and investment firms.
The US is taking a different As the ultimate parent of Citizens subsidiary banks, the approach, mandating that their largest internationally company is a bank holding company within the meaning active banks use the Advanced approaches for credit and of, and subject to regulation under, the US Bank Holding operational risk calculations: other banks can either remain Company Act of 1956, as amended the BHCA, by the on Basel 1 or opt-into Basel 2.
Our US subsidiary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System the Citizens, currently falls outside the group of mandated Board.
Under current Board policy, the company is Basel 2 banks for purposes of US regulation.
expected to act as a source of financial strength to its US bank subsidiaries.
The BHCA generally prohibits the The Accord, based around three Pillars of Minimum company from acquiring, directly or indirectly, the Capital Requirements Pillar 1, Supervisory Review Pillar ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares 2 and Market Discipline Pillar 3, presents a fundamental of any company engaged in non-banking activities in the change to the current capital adequacy regime and will United States unless the Board has determined, by order have wide ranging consequences for the banking industry or regulation, that such activities are so closely related to as a whole.
The Group is actively involved in dialogue with banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a various regulatory groups and is taking the necessary proper incident thereto.
In addition, the BHCA requires the steps to prepare for the new Accord.
company to obtain the prior approval of the Board before acquiring, directly or indirectly, the ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any US bank or bank holding company.
"However, the US Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 the ""GLBA"" permits bank holding companies that have met certain eligibility criteria and elected to become 'financial holding companies' to engage in a significantly broader range of non-banking activities than those described above."
Under the GLBA and related section Board regulations, the company elected to become a financial holding company effective as of 9 February 2004.
04 The companys US bank and non-bank subsidiaries, and the Royal Bank and NatWests US offices, are subject to direct supervision and regulation by various other federal and state authorities.
Citizens bank subsidiaries are subject to regulation by state banking authorities and the US Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Royal Banks New York branch is supervised by the New York Banking Department.
NatWests New York branch was closed at the end of April 2004.
The companys US securities affiliates are subject to regulation and supervision by the Securities and Exchange Commission Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Additional information Additional information RBS Annual Report 200-220 7 3 05 11:18 am Page 220 Additional information continued Description of property and equipment Major shareholders The Group operates from a number of locations worldwide, Details of major shareholders in the companys ordinary and principally in the UK.
At 31 December 2004, the Royal Bank preference shares are given on page 117. and NatWest had 642 and 1,631 retail branches, respectively, in the UK.
Citizens had 1,613 retail banking offices including With the exception of Santander Central Hispano S. A. which in-store branches covering Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, sold i 86.7 million ordinary shares shares representing 2.9% Indiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Hampshire, New of the companys ordinary share capital on 25 November 2002, Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and ii 79 million ordinary shares representing 2.5% of the Vermont.
A substantial majority of the UK branches are owned companys ordinary share capital on 9 September 2004 and 220 by the Royal Bank, NatWest and their subsidiaries or are held iii 82 million shares representing 2.5% of the companys under leases with unexpired terms of over 50 years.
The ordinary share capital on 27 January 2005 and the remainder Groups principal properties include its headquarters at St of SCHs shareholding in the company, there have been no Andrew Square, Edinburgh, its principal offices in London at significant changes in the percentage ownership of major 135 and 280 Bishopsgate and the Drummond House shareholders of the companys ordinary and preference shares administration centre located at South Gyle, Edinburgh.
A new during the three years ended 23 February 2005.
All shareholders corporate headquarters is being developed at Gogarburn, within a class of the companys shares have the same voting Edinburgh, which is due to open in 2005. rights.
The company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or any foreign government.
Freehold and long leasehold properties are revalued on a rolling basis, each property being valued at least once every At 23 February 2005, the directors of the company had options five years.
Interim valuations outwith the five year cycle are to purchase a total of 1,800,211 ordinary shares of the company.
carried out on properties where there is an indication that its value has changed significantly, given market conditions.
Any As at 31 December 2004, almost all of the companys US$ increase or deficit on revaluation is reflected in the carrying denominated preference shares were held by shareholders value of premises at that time.
Any impairment in the value of registered in the US.
All other shares were predominantly held premises where there is a clear consumption of economic by shareholders registered outside the US.
benefits is charged in full to the profit and loss account.
Other impairments of premises are charged to the profit and loss Material contracts account after eliminating any previous revaluation surplus on The company and its subsidiaries are party to various the premises.
Any profit from the sale of revalued premises is contracts in the ordinary course of business.
For the year calculated by deducting the revalued amount from the net ended 31 December 2004, there have been no material proceeds.
The revaluation of premises at 31 December 2004 contracts entered into outside the ordinary course of business.
resulted in a 56 million increase in property revaluation reserves.
Total capital expenditure on premises, computers and other equipment for the year ended 31 December 2004 was 1,513 million 2003 2,613 million: 2002 872 million.
Additional information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 221 Shareholder information Contents 221 222 Financial calendar 222 Shareholder enquiries 222 Capital gains tax 223 Analyses of ordinary shareholders 223 Trading market 225 Memorandum and articles of association 225 Taxation for US holders 230 Exchange controls 230 Documents on display 231 Important addresses 231 Principal offices section section 05 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 222 Shareholder information Financial calendar Annual general meeting 20 April 2005 at 2.00 pm, Edinburgh International Conference Centre, The Exchange, Morrison Street, Edinburgh Interim results 4 August 2005 Dividends Payment dates: Ordinary shares 2004 Final 3 June 2005 222 Ordinary shares 2005 Interim October 2005 Cumulative preference shares 31 May and 30 December 2005 Non-cumulative dollar preference shares 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 30 December 2005 Ex-dividend dates: Ordinary shares 2004 Final 9 March 2005 Cumulative preference shares 4 May 2005 Record dates: Ordinary shares 2004 Final 11 March 2005 Cumulative preference shares 6 May 2005 If the necessary approvals are obtained from shareholders at the annual general meeting on 20 April 2005, as an alternative to cash, a scrip dividend election will be offered and shareholders will receive details of this by letter after that date.
Shareholder enquiries Capital gains tax Shareholdings in the company may be checked by visiting our For shareholders who held RBS ordinary shares at 31 March website www.
You will need the shareholder 1982, the market value of one ordinary share held was 103p.
reference number printed on your share certificate or tax After adjusting for the 1 March 1985 rights issue, the 1 September voucher to gain access to this information.
1989 capitalisation issue and the bonus issue of Additional Value Shares on 12 July 2000, the adjusted 31 March 1982 Braille and audio Annual Review and base value of one ordinary share held currently is 46.1p.
Summary Financial Statement Shareholders requiring a Braille or audio version of the Annual For shareholders who held NatWest ordinary shares at 31 March Review and Summary Financial Statement should contact the 1982, the market value of one ordinary share held was 85.16p Registrar on 0870 702 0135. for shareholders who accepted the basic terms of the RBS offer.
This takes account of the August 1984 and June 1986 ShareGift rights issues and the June 1989 bonus issue of NatWest ordinary The company is aware that shareholders who hold a small shares as well as the subsequent issue of Additional Value Shares.
number of shares may be retaining these shares because dealing costs make it uneconomical to dispose of them.
When disposing of shares, shareholders are also entitled to ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme is a free service indexation allowance to April 1998 only in the case of individuals operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity and non-corporate holders, which is calculated on the 31 1052686 to enable shareholders to donate unwanted shares March 1982 value, on the cost of subsequent purchases from to charity.
the date of purchase and on the subscription for rights from the date of that payment.
Further adjustments must be made Should you wish to donate your shares to charity in this way where a shareholder has chosen to receive shares instead of you should contact ShareGift for further information: cash for dividends.
Individuals and non-corporate shareholders may also be entitled to some taper relief to reduce the amount ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, of any chargeable gain on disposal of shares.
46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN Tel: 020 7337 0501 The information set out above is intended as a general guide www.
org only and is based on current United Kingdom legislation and Inland Revenue practice as at this date.
This information Donating your shares in this way will not give rise to either a deals only with the position of individual shareholders who gain or a loss for UK capital gains tax purposes and you may are resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes, who are be able to reclaim UK income tax on gifted shares.
Further the beneficial owners of their shares and who hold their information can be obtained from the UK Inland Revenue or shares as an investment.
It does not deal with the position of your local tax office.
shareholders other than individual shareholders, shareholders who are resident outside the United Kingdom for tax purposes or certain types of shareholders, such as dealers in securities.
Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 223 Analyses of ordinary shareholders at 31 December 2004 % shareholdings millions of total Individuals 170,022 237.9 7.5 Banks and nominee companies 23,731 2,762.7 87.1 Investment trusts 145 0.8 Insurance companies 339 11.6 0.4 Other companies 2,200 144.7 4.5 Pension trusts 37 9.6 0.3 Other corporate bodies 104 5.3 0.2 196,578 3,172.6 100.0 223 Range of shareholdings: 10,000,0011,000 129,864 45.2 1.4 10,001,00110,000 61,136 166.0 5.2 10,010,001100,000 4,161 105.6 3.4 11,100,0011,000,000 1,041 338.9 10.7 11,000,00110,000,000 326 926.7 29.2 10,000,001 and over 50 1,590.2 50.1 196,578 3,172.6 100.0 Trading market On 13 September 1995, 16 October 1996, 26 March 1997, 12 February 1998, 8 February 1999, 30 July 1999, 30 September 1999, 12 June 2001, 30 September 2004 and 26 August 2004 the company issued the following American Depositary Shares ADSs in the United States: 7,000,000 Series D Series D ADSs representing 7,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series D: 8,000,000 Series E Series E ADSs representing 8,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series E: 8,000,000 Series F Series F ADSs representing 8,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series F: 10,000,000 Series G Series G ADSs representing 10,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series G: 12,000,000 Series H Series H ADSs representing 12,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series H: 12,000,000 Series I Series I ADSs representing 12,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series I: 9,000,000 Series J Series J ADSs representing 9,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series J: 16,000,000 Series K Series K ADSs representing 16,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series K: 34,000,000 Series L Series L ADSs representing 34,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares Series L: and 37,000,000 Series M Series M ADSs representing 37,000,000 non-cumulative dollar preference shares Series M. Each of the respective ADSs represents the right to receive one corresponding preference share, is evidenced by an On 29 March 1994 and 23 June 2003, respectively, the American Depositary Receipt ADR and is listed on the New company issued 8,000,000 Exchangeable Capital Securities York Stock Exchange NYSE.
X-CAPs, Series A and 34,000,000 Exchangeable Capital Securities, Series B, each in connection with a public offering The ADRs evidencing the ADSs above were issued pursuant to in the United States.
On 30 September 2004, all of the Deposit Agreements, among the company, The Bank of New outstanding Series B X-CAPs were exchanged into 34,000,000 York as depository, and all holders from time to time of ADRs non-cumulative dollar preference shares, Series L. The Series issued thereunder.
Currently, there is no non-United States A X-CAPs are listed on the NYSE and trade under the symbol trading market for any of the non-cumulative dollar preference RBSPRX.
Currently, there is no non-US market for the Series A section shares.
All of the non-cumulative dollar preference shares are X-CAPs.
05 held by the depository, as custodian, in bearer form.
On 20 August 2001, the company issued US$1.2 billion of At 31 December 2004, there were 238 registered shareholders perpetual regulatory tier one securities PROs in connection of Series D ADSs, 129 registered shareholders of Series E with a public offering in the United States.
ADSs, 144 registered shareholders of Series F ADSs, 90 registered shareholders of Series G ADSs, 90 registered The ADSs, the X-CAPs and the PROs are listed on the NYSE.
shareholders of Series H ADSs, 109 registered shareholders of Series I ADSs, 73 registered shareholders of Series J ADSs, 64 registered shareholders of Series K ADSs, 9 registered shareholders of Series L ADSs and 1 registered shareholder of Series M ADSs.
Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 225 Memorandum and articles of association Preference shares or ADSs The companys Memorandum of Association the Memorandum Taxation of dividends and Articles of Association the Articles as in effect at the The company is not required to withhold tax at source from date of this annual report are registered with the Registrar of dividend payments it makes or from any amount including any Companies of Scotland.
The Articles were last amended on 29 amounts in respect of accrued dividends distributed by the April 2004 and have been filed with the SEC.
Taxation for US Holders Before 1 May 2004, if a US Holder would have been entitled to The following discussion summarises certain US federal and greater benefits under the Prior Treaty, that US Holder could UK tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership and have elected to continue to apply the Prior Treaty to dividend 225 disposition of non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs, payments made before that date.
X-CAPs or PROs by a beneficial owner that is a citizen or resident of the United States or that otherwise will be subject New Treaty to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of Because payments of dividends by the company to non-UK the non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs, X-CAPs or investors are not subject to UK withholding tax, it is not PROs a US Holder.
This summary assumes that a US necessary to apply the New Treaty in order to receive a Holder is holding non-cumulative dollar preference shares, reduced rate of withholding.
Since there is no UK withholding ADSs, X-CAPs or PROs, as applicable, as capital assets.
This tax on payments of dividends to US Holders, US Holders will summary does not address the tax consequences to a US not be entitled to a foreign tax credit for foreign taxes paid as a Holder i that is resident or, in the case of an individual, result of the payment of dividends by the company.
ordinarily resident in the UK for UK tax purposes or ii generally, that is a corporation which alone or together with one or more Prior Treaty effect of UK tax credit associated companies, controls, directly or indirectly, 10% or An individual shareholder who is resident in the UK for UK tax more of the voting stock of the company.
purposes and who receives a dividend from the company is entitled to claim a tax credit in the UK against its income tax The statements and practices set forth below regarding US liability attributable to the dividend.
and UK tax laws, including the US UK double taxation convention relating to income and capital gains which entered Although a US Holder that receives a dividend from the into force on 31 March 2003 the New Treaty, the prior company will not be entitled to this UK tax credit, certain US US UK double tax convention relating to income and capital Holders are entitled to a tax credit payment the Tax Credit gains the Prior Treaty and the US UK double taxation Amount.
However, a US holder would not actually receive this convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Tax Credit Amount because of UK withholding tax.
Treaty, are based on those laws and practices as in force and as applied in practice on the date of this Report.
This Dividends paid by the company and any Tax Credit Amount summary is not exhaustive of all possible tax considerations will constitute foreign source dividend income for US federal and holders are advised to satisfy themselves as to the overall income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the current or tax consequences, including specifically the consequences accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as under US federal, state, local and other laws, and possible determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Payments will changes in taxation law, of the acquisition, ownership and not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction allowed to disposition of non-cumulative dollar preference shares, ADSs, corporate US Holders.
X-CAPs or PROs by consulting their own tax advisers.
Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon References below to the Treaty are references to either the a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain Prior Treaty or the New Treaty as applicable.
noncorporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2009 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
For the purposes of the Treaty, the Estate Tax Treaty and the Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax section US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended the Code, advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special US Holders of ADSs will be treated as owners of the nonrules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
05 cumulative dollar preference shares underlying such ADSs.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Shareholder information Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 226 Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders continued UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax SDRT Taxation of capital gains The following is a summary of the UK stamp duty and SDRT A US Holder that is not resident or, in the case of an consequences of transferring an ADS in registered form individual, ordinarily resident in the UK will not normally be otherwise than to the custodian on cancellation of the ADS or liable for UK tax on capital gains realised on the disposition of of transferring a non-cumulative dollar preference share.
such holders non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS A transfer of a registered ADS executed and retained in the unless at the time of the disposal, in the case of a corporate United States will not give rise to stamp duty and an agreement US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the UK to transfer a registered ADS will not give rise to SDRT.
through a permanent establishment or, in the case of any other US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade, profession or Stamp duty or SDRT will normally be payable on or in respect 226 vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency and such of transfers of non-cumulative dollar preference shares and non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS is or has been accordingly any holder who acquires or intends to acquire used, held or acquired by or for the purposes of such trade or non-cumulative dollar preference shares is advised to consult profession or vocation, permanent establishment, branch or its own tax advisers in relation to stamp duty and SDRT.
Special rules apply to individuals who are temporarily not resident or ordinarily resident in the UK.
X-CAPs United States A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a Because the X-CAPs have no stated maturity, can be non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS generally exchanged for preference shares or ADSs at the option of the recognise capital gain or loss for US federal income tax company, would be treated as if they were preference shares in purposes assuming in the case of a redemption, that such US a winding-up of the company, and the company may elect not Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, any ordinary to make payments on the X-CAPs, the X-CAPs will be treated shares of the company in an amount equal to the difference as equity for US federal income tax purposes.
between the amount realised excluding in the case of a redemption any amount treated as a dividend for US federal Payments including any UK withholding tax, as to which see income tax purposes, which will be taxed accordingly and the below will constitute foreign source dividend income for US US Holders tax basis in the non-cumulative dollar preference federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the share or ADS.
current or accumulated earnings and profits of the company, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Payments A US Holder who is liable for both UK and US tax on gain will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction allowed recognised on the disposal of a non-cumulative dollar to corporate US Holders.
preference share or ADS will generally be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon income tax liability in respect of such gain.
a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain non-corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before Estate and gift tax 1 January 2009 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
A non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS held by an Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax individual, whose domicile is determined to be the United advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special States for purposes of the Estate Tax Treaty and who is not a rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a lifetime transfer of the nonA US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of cumulative dollar preference share or ADS, except in certain X-CAPs, generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal cases where the non-cumulative dollar preference share or income tax purposes assuming in the case of a redemption, ADS i is comprised in a settlement unless, at the time of the that such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, settlement, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and any ordinary shares of the company.
A US Holder who is liable was not a national of the UK : ii is part of the business for both UK and US tax on gain recognised on the disposal property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise: or of the X-CAPs will generally be entitled, subject to certain iii pertains to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the limitations, to credit the UK tax against its US federal income performance of independent personal services.
The Estate Tax tax liability in respect of such gain.
Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal estate or gift tax liability for the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a Gain or loss will not be recognised by a US Holder upon the case where the non-cumulative dollar preference share or ADS exchange of X-CAPs for preference shares or ADSs pursuant is subject to both UK inheritance tax and US federal estate or to the companys exercise of its exchange right.
basis in the preference shares or ADSs received in exchange for its X-CAPs will be the same as the US Holders basis in the X-CAPs at the time of the exchange and the US Holders holding period for the preference shares or ADSs received in the exchange will include the holding period of the X-CAPs exchanged.
Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 227 United Kingdom However, interest with a UK source received without deduction Taxation of payments of interest or withholding on account of UK tax will not be chargeable to Payments on the X-CAPs will constitute interest rather than UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a dividends for UK withholding tax purposes.
However, the corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the X-CAPs will constitute quoted eurobonds within the meaning UK through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of of section 349 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act other US Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession 1988, and therefore payments of interest will not be subject or vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency in to withholding or deduction for or on account of UK taxation connection with which the interest is received or to which the as long as X-CAPs remain at all times listed on the New York X-CAPs are attributable.
There are exemptions for interest Stock Exchange or some other recognised stock exchange received by certain categories of agents such as some 227 within the meaning of section 841 of the Income and brokers and investment managers.
In all other cases an amount must be withheld on account of UK income tax at the lower EU Directive on taxation of savings income rate currently 20% subject to any direction to the contrary The European Union has adopted a new directive regarding by the Inland Revenue under the Treaty and except that the the taxation of savings income.
Subject to a number of withholding obligation is disapplied in respect of payments important conditions being met, Member States of the to persons who the company reasonably believes are within European Union will be required from a date not earlier than the charge to corporation tax or fall within various categories 1 July 2005 to provide to the tax authorities of other Member enjoying a special tax status including charities and pension States details of payments of interest or other similar income funds, or are partnerships consisting of such persons unless paid by a person to an individual in another Member State, the Inland Revenue directs otherwise.
except that Belgium, Luxembourg and Austria will instead impose a withholding system for a transitional period unless If interest were paid under deduction of UK income tax e. g. during such period they elect otherwise.
if the X-CAPs lost their listing, US Holders may be able to claim a refund of the tax deducted under the Treaty.
Disposal including redemption A disposal including redemption of X-CAPs by a nonAny paying agent or other person through whom interest is corporate US Holder, will not give rise to any liability to UK paid to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of, an taxation on capital gains unless the US Holder carries on a individual, may be required to provide information in relation trade which for this purpose includes a profession or vocation to the payment and the individual concerned to the UK Inland in the UK through a branch or agency and the X-CAPs are, Revenue.
The Inland Revenue may communicate this or have been, held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, information to the tax authorities of other jurisdictions.
The exchange by such US Holder of X-CAPs for preference shares or ADSs pursuant to the The UK Inland Revenue confirmed at around the time of issue companys exercise of its exchange right will not give rise to of the X-CAPs that interest payments should not be treated as a charge to UK tax on capital gains even if such US Holder distributions for UK tax purposes by reason of i the fact that would be subject to tax on a disposal of such holders X-CAPs interest may be deferred under the terms of issue or ii the in accordance with the tax treatment referred to previously.
undated nature of the X-CAPs, provided that at the time an interest payment is made, the X-CAPs are not held by a A transfer of X-CAPs by a US Holder will not give rise to a company which is associated with the company or by a charge to UK tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, funded company.
A company will be associated with the unless the US Holder is an individual or other non-corporate company if, broadly speaking, it is in the same group as the tax payer and at any time in the relevant year of assessment company.
A company will be a funded company for these or accounting period carries on a trade in the UK through a purposes if there are arrangements involving that company branch or agency to which the X-CAPs are attributable.
being put in funds directly or indirectly by the company, or an entity associated with the company.
In this respect, the Inland Annual tax charges section Revenue has confirmed that a company holding an interest in Corporate US Holders of X-CAPs may be subject to annual UK X-CAPs which incidentally has banking facilities with any tax charges or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange 05 company associated with the company will not be a funded rates and in respect of profits, gains and losses arising from company by virtue of such facilities.
the X-CAPs, but only if such corporate US Holders carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK permanent Interest on the X-CAPs constitutes UK source income for UK establishment to which the X-CAPs are attributable.
tax purposes and, as such, may be subject to income tax by direct assessment even where paid without withholding.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Shareholder information Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 228 Shareholder information continued Taxation for US Holders continued PROs Inheritance tax United States X-CAPs in bearer form physically held outside the UK should Payments of interest on a PRO including any UK tax withheld not be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of a lifetime therefrom will constitute foreign source dividend income for transfer by, or the death of, a US Holder who is neither US federal income tax purposes to the extent paid out of the domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for current or accumulated earnings and profits of the company, inheritance tax purposes.
However, in relation to X-CAPs held as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Payments through DTC or any other clearing system, the position is not will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction free from doubt and the Inland Revenue are known to consider allowed to corporate US Holders.
A US Holder who is entitled that the situs of securities held in this manner is not under the Treaty to a refund of UK tax, if any, withheld on a 228 necessarily determined by the place in which the securities are payment will not be entitled to claim a foreign tax credit with physically held.
If X-CAPs in bearer form are or become respect to such tax.
See United Kingdom Taxation of situated in the UK, or if X-CAPs are held in registered form, Payments on the PROs below for a discussion of there may be a charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a circumstances in which UK withholding may apply.
lifetime transfer at less than fair market value by, or on the death of, such US Holder.
However, exemption from, or a Subject to applicable limitations that may vary depending upon reduction of, any such UK tax liability may be available under a holders individual circumstances, dividends paid to certain the Estate Tax Treaty in the same manner as for non-cumulative non-corporate US Holders in taxable years beginning before 1 dollar preference shares.
US Holders should consult their January 2009 will be taxable at a maximum tax rate of 15%.
professional advisers in relation to such potential liability.
Non-corporate US Holders should consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject to any special Stamp duty and SDRT rules that limit their ability to be taxed at this favourable rate.
No UK stamp duty is payable on the transfer by delivery or redemption of bearer X-CAPs, whether in definitive form or in A US Holder will, upon the sale, exchange or redemption of a the form of one or more global X-CAPs.
No SDRT is payable PRO, generally recognise capital gain or loss for US federal on any agreement to transfer bearer X-CAPs provided that the income tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference agreement is not made in contemplation of, or as part of an between the amount realised excluding any amount in respect arrangement for, a takeover of the company.
of mandatory interest and any Missed Payments which are to be satisfied on a Missed Payment Satisfaction Date, which No UK stamp duty will be payable in respect of any instrument would be treated as ordinary income and the US Holders tax of transfer of depositary interests representing X-CAPs, basis in the PRO assuming, in the case of a redemption, that provided that any instrument relating to such transfer is not such US Holder does not own, and is not deemed to own, any executed in the UK, and remains at all times outside the UK.
ordinary shares of the company.
A US Holder who is liable for Depositary interests representing X-CAPs will not be both UK and US tax on a gain recognised on the disposal of chargeable securities for SDRT purposes, and consequently PROs will generally be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to a transfer of such depositary interests will not be subject to credit the UK tax against its US federal income tax liability in SDRT.
Although the position is not clear, the transfer on the sale respect of such gain.
of X-CAPs in registered form may attract ad valorem UK stamp duty or if an unconditional agreement to transfer X-CAPs is United Kingdom not completed by a duly stamped transfer UK SDRT, generally Taxation of payments on the PROs at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid, which, in the Payments on the PROs will constitute interest rather than case of stamp duty, will be rounded up to 5 or multiples dividends for UK withholding tax purposes.
The transfer of X-CAPs in registered form to, or to a will constitute quoted eurobonds within the meaning of nominee or agent for, a person whose business i is or section 349 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 includes issuing depositary receipts or ii is or includes the and therefore payments of interest will not be subject to provision of clearance services, may give rise to a liability to withholding or deduction for or on account of UK taxation as UK stamp duty or to the extent that UK stamp duty is not paid long as the PROs remain at all times listed on a recognised on an instrument of transfer UK SDRT, generally at the rate of stock exchange within the meaning of section 841 of the 1.5% of the price of the X-CAPs transferred, which, in the case Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
In all other cases, an of stamp duty, will be rounded up to 5 or multiples thereof.
amount must be withheld on account of UK income tax at the Such transfer of X-CAPs in bearer form may give rise to a lower rate currently 20% subject to any direction to the charge to UK SDRT generally at the rate of 1.5% of the price contrary by the Inland Revenue under the Treaty and except of the X-CAPs transferred.
A charge to UK SDRT may also that the withholding obligation is disapplied in respect of arise on the issue of X-CAPs whether in registered or bearer payments to persons who the company reasonably believes form to, or to a nominee or agent for, a person whose business are within the charge to corporation tax or fall within various is or includes issuing depositary receipts or includes the categories enjoying a special tax status including charities and provision of clearance services, generally at the rate of 1.5% pension funds, or are partnerships consisting of such persons of the price of the X-CAPs issued.
unless the Inland Revenue directs otherwise.
Where interest Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 229 has been paid under deduction of UK withholding tax, US Disposal including redemption Holders may be able to recover the tax deducted under the Treaty.
A disposal including redemption of PROs by a non-corporate If interest were paid under deduction of UK income tax e. g. if US Holder, will not give rise to any liability to UK taxation on the PROs lost their listing, US Holders may be able to claim a capital gains unless the US Holder carries on a trade which refund of the tax deducted under the Treaty.
for this purpose includes a profession or a vocation in the UK through a branch or agency and the PROs are, or have been, Any paying agent or other person by or through whom interest held or acquired for the purposes of that trade, branch or is paid to, or by whom interest is received on behalf of, an agency.
individual, may be required to provide information in relation to the payment and the individual concerned to the UK Inland A transfer of PROs by a US Holder will not give rise to a charge 229 Revenue.
The Inland Revenue may communicate this to UK tax on accrued but unpaid interest payments, unless the information to the tax authorities of other jurisdictions.
US Holder is an individual or other noncorporate tax payer and at any time in the relevant year of assessment or accounting The UK Inland Revenue confirmed at around the time of the period carries on a trade in the UK through a branch or agency issue of the PROs that interest payments would not be treated to which the PROs are attributable.
as distributions for UK tax purposes by reason of i the fact that interest may be deferred under the terms of issue or Annual tax charges ii the undated nature of the PROs, provided that at the time Corporate US Holders of PROs may be subject to annual UK an interest payment is made, the PROs are not held by a tax charges or relief by reference to fluctuations in exchange company which is associated with the company or by a rates and in respect of profits, gains and losses arising from funded company.
A company will be associated with the the PROs, but only if such corporate US Holders carry on a company if, broadly speaking, it is part of the same group as trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK permanent the company.
A company will be a funded company for these establishment to which the PROs are attributable.
purposes if there are arrangements involving that company being put in funds directly or indirectly by the company, or an Inheritance tax entity associated with the company.
In this respect, the Inland In relation to PROs held through DTC or any other clearing Revenue has confirmed that a company holding an interest in system, the UK inheritance tax position is not free from doubt the PROs which incidentally has banking facilities with any in respect of a lifetime transfer, or death of, a US Holder who company associated with the company will not be a funded is not domiciled nor deemed to be domiciled in the UK for company by virtue of such facilities.
inheritance tax purposes: the UK Inland Revenue are known to consider that the situs of securities held in this manner is not Interest on the PROs constitutes UK source income for UK tax necessarily determined by the place where the securities are purposes and, as such, may be subject to income tax by registered.
In appropriate circumstances, there may be a direct assessment even where paid without withholding.
charge to UK inheritance tax as a result of a lifetime transfer However, interest with a UK source received without deduction at less than fair market value by, or on the death of, such US or withholding on account of UK tax will not be chargeable to Holder.
However, exemption from, or a reduction of, any such UK tax in the hands of a US Holder unless, in the case of a UK tax liability may be available under the Estate Tax Treaty.
corporate US Holder, such US Holder carries on a trade in the US Holders should consult their professional advisers in UK through a UK permanent establishment or in the case of relation to such potential liability.
other US Holders, such persons carry on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a UK branch or agency in Stamp duty and SDRT connection with which the interest is received or to which the No stamp duty, SDRT or similar tax is imposed in the UK on the PROs are attributable.
There are exemptions for interest issue, transfer or redemption of the PROs.
received by certain categories of agent such as some brokers and investment managers.
section EU Directive on taxation of savings income The European Union has adopted a new directive regarding 05 the taxation of savings income.
Subject to a number of important conditions being met, Member States of the European Union will be required from a date not earlier than 1 July 2005 to provide to the tax authorities of other Member States details of payments of interest and other similar income paid by a person to an individual resident in another Member State, except that Belgium, Luxembourg and Austria will instead impose a withholding system for a transitional period unless during such period they elect otherwise.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Shareholder information Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 230 Shareholder information continued Exchange controls Documents on display The company has been advised that there are currently no UK Documents concerning the company may be inspected at laws, decrees or regulations which would prevent the remittance 36 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh, EH2 2YB telephone 0131 of dividends or other payments to non-UK resident holders of 556 8555. the companys non-cumulative dollar preference shares.
In addition, we file reports and other information with the SEC.
There are no restrictions under the articles of association of You can read and copy these reports and other information at the company or under UK law, as currently in effect, which limit the SECs Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N. W. the right of non-UK resident owners to hold or, when entitled to Washington, D. C. 20549.
You can call the SEC at 1-800-SECvote, freely to vote the companys non-cumulative dollar 0330 for further information on the Public Reference Room or at 230 preference shares.
the offices of The New York Stock Exchange, on which certain of our securities are listed, at 20 Broad Street, New York, New York 10005.
The SEC also maintains a website at www.
gov which contains in electronic form each of the reports and other information that we have filed electronically with the SEC.
Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 231 Important addresses Principal offices Shareholder enquiries The company Registrar 42 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YE Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Royal Bank of Scotland plc The Pavilions 42 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YE Bridgwater Road 280 Bishopsgate London EC2M 4RB Bristol BS99 7NH Telephone: 0870 702 0135 National Westminster Bank Plc Facsimile: 0870 703 6009 135 Bishopsgate London EC2M 3UR 231 Group Secretariat Citizens The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Citizens Financial Group, Inc. 42 St Andrew Square One Citizens Plaza Providence Rhode Island 02903 USA Edinburgh EH2 2YE Telephone: 0131 523 0944 Ulster Bank Facsimile: 0131 557 6140 11-16 Donegall Square East Belfast BT1 5UB Georges Quay Dublin 2 Registered office 36 St Andrew Square RBS Insurance Edinburgh EH2 2YB Direct Line House 3 Edridge Road Croydon Surrey CR9 1AG Telephone: 0131 556 8555 Churchill Court West Moreland Road Bromley BR1 1DP Registered in Scotland No.
45551 RBS Greenwich Capital 600 Steamboat Road Website Greenwich Connecticut 06830 USA www.
com Coutts Group 440 Strand London WC2R 0QS The Royal Bank of Scotland International Limited Royal Bank House 71 Bath Street St Helier Jersey Channel Islands JE4 8PJ NatWest Offshore 23 25 Broad Street St Helier Jersey Channel Islands JE4 8QG The registered office of the company is 36 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YB telephone 0131 556 8555.
The principal place of business of the company is 42 St Andrew Square, Edinburgh EH2 2YE telephone 0131 556 8555. section 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Shareholder information Shareholder information RBS Annual Report 221-232 7 3 05 11:19 am Page 232 Notes 232 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Profit before tax up 14% Total Adjusted income up earnings per share up 18% 10% Dividend up 15% www.
com Make it happen In 2000 RBS successfully completed the 21 billion The Royal Bank of Scotland was founded acquisition of NatWest, the biggest takeover in in Edinburgh in 1727.
British banking history, creating a Group with over 20 million customers, 400 billion assets By 1900 it had over 130 branches in Scotland and and 110,000 employees worldwide.
The NatWest had opened its first branch in London.
During the integration was completed successfully in February 1920s and 30s it established a significant presence 2003, with the original targets for cost savings and in England through the acquisition of Glyn, Mills and revenue benefits exceeded.
By 1970, having merged with the National Commercial Bank of Scotland, it was the Since the acquisition of NatWest, RBS has continued leading bank in Scotland, with over 700 branches.
to grow the business through the combination of strong organic growth and acquisitions.
In the US, During the 1980s RBS diversified its business, Citizens footprint has been expanded from New pioneering the direct distribution of motor insurance England into the Mid-Atlantic states through the through the establishment of Direct Line in 1985, acquisition of the Mellon Bank regional franchise, and entering US banking in 1988 with the acquisition and into the Midwest though the acquisition of of Citizens Bank of Rhode Island.
Citizens is now one of the top ten US commercial banking In the 1990s RBS re-engineered its retail banking organisations by deposits.
In insurance, the business, removing processing activities from acquisition of Churchill broadened the product and branches, and segmenting the Banks customers distribution channel capabilities of Direct Line and and associated service propositions.
Over the same created the second largest general insurer in the period RBS developed and implemented its multiUK.
In corporate banking, RBS has entered the US, brand, multiple channel strategy, launching direct Continental European and Asia Pacific markets.
banking in 1994, and the UKs first comprehensive internet banking service in 1997, together with financial services operations in partnership with Virgin and Tesco in the same year.
Make it happen RBS Ann Review 01-07 7 3 05 10:22 am Page 1 Highlights of 2004 Contents 01 02 Financial highlights 04 Chairmans statement 06 Group Chief Executives review 08 Group profile 10 Divisional profile Income up 18% to 22.8 billion Cost:income ratio improved from Divisional review 14 Corporate Banking & 42.6% to 40.8% Financial Markets 20 Retail Banking 26 Retail Direct Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation 32 Manufacturing 36 Wealth Management and integration costs up 15% to 38 RBS Insurance 42 Ulster Bank 8.1 billion 44 Citizens Profit before tax up 14% to 6.9 billion Corporate responsibility 50 Corporate responsibility 51 Supporting international Adjusted earnings per share rose principles 51 Benchmarking by 10% to 172.5p 53 Our 2004 performance 53 Community investment Final dividend of 41.2p giving a total for the year of 58.0p per share, up 15% Directors report and summary financial statement 56 Board of directors and secretary 58 Remuneration report 62 Financial results 66 Shareholder information 68 Important addresses Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Governance and Corporate Divisional review Group review financial review responsibility Financial highlights Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs up 15% Profit before tax up 14% Final dividend of 41.2p giving a total for the year of 58.0p per share, up 15% Total shareholder return close to 100% over the last five years 02 Income Adjusted cost:income ratio Profit before tax, goodwill Profit before tax m % amortisation and integration m costs m 22,754 51.9 8,101 6,917 45.3 6,076 44.2 7,068 19,281 42.6 6,540 40.8 17,016 4,852 5,778 14,558 4,252 12,358 3,327 4,401 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 proforma proforma proforma proforma The Groups total income grew The Groups cost:income ratio in 2004 The Groups profit before tax, goodwill The Groups profit before tax, rose by 18% to 22,754 million in 2004. improved to 40.8% from 42.6% in 2003. amortisation and integration costs by 14% to 6,917 million in 2004.
The cost:income ratio is based on increased by 15% to 8,101 million operating expenses excluding goodwill in 2004. amortisation and integration costs, and after netting operating lease depreciation against rental income.
2002 and 2003 have been restated following the implementation of FRS 17. proforma results assume acquisition of NatWest on 1 January 2000.
Total shareholder return Adjusted earnings per share pence 250 172.5 200 157.2 146.3 150 127.9 Index 100 101.8 50 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 proforma Earnings per share increased by 0 10% to 172.5p for 2004, adjusted for 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 goodwill amortisation and integration costs, and in 2001 2003 for the AVS dividend.
RBS FTSE 100 31 December 1999 100 Source: Datastream Financial highlights 03 At the end of 2004 The Royal Bank of Scotland The bulk of both our income and assets continues Group was the worlds 5th largest banking group, to be in the UK, although the US and Europe are with a market capitalisation of 56 billion.
Our three principal areas of operation are the UK, The number of people we employ and the number US and Europe.
In each of these the scale of our of customers buying banking products and financial businesses has significantly grown over the past services from the Group are growing in the UK and five years through strong organic growth and internationally.
We now employ 137,000 people acquisitions.
We are also expanding our activities worldwide on a full time equivalent basis.
in the increasingly important Asia Pacific region.
Dividend per ordinary share Market capitalisation Geographic analysis: Geographic analysis: pence bn Income Employees 1 1 58.0 55.6 7 5 50.3 15 19 48.8 47.8 43.7 43.2 42.4 38.0 77 75 33.0 % % 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 UK 77 UK 75 The directors have recommended The Groups market capitalisation at US 15 US 19 a final dividend of 41.2p which, 31 December 2004 was 55.6 billion Europe 7 Europe 5 when added to the interim dividend compared with 48.8 billion a year earlier.
of 16.8p, makes a total for 2004 of Rest of World 1 Rest of World 1 58.0p, an increase of 15%.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Group review RBS Ann Review 01-07 7 3 05 10:22 am Page 4 Chairmans statement 04 Board of directors In 2004 we maintained the momentum of At the forthcoming annual general meeting in April 2005, our good performance of recent years.
Sir Angus Grossart and Lord Vallance will retire from the Board, after 19 and 12 years service respectively.
Both We achieved strong organic growth across Vice-chairmen have served the Board extremely well during a period of unparalleled development of our Group.
In addition, through various contribution, wisdom and guidance has been greatly valued, acquisitions, we strengthened our existing and their experience through the ups and downs of economic cycles will be missed.
businesses outside the UK and established additional options for future growth.
Iain Robertson, Chairman of Corporate Banking & Financial Markets, will also retire at the annual general meeting.
I recruited Iain to the bank 13 years ago, and in this period he created Financial performance what is, in my opinion, the UKs best corporate relationship In 2004 the Group profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and bank and increased its contribution to our profits some 50 fold.
integration costs increased by 15% to 8,101 million 2003 7,068 million.
Total income grew by 18% to 22,754 million I would also like to acknowledge the excellent service of 2003 19,281 million, while operating expenses grew by only Norman McLuskie who retired from the Board in August 2004 13% to 9,662 million 2003 8,524 million.
The 2003 results as Chairman, Retail Direct.
Norman joined the Group in 1982 have been restated following the implementation of FRS 17. and was appointed an executive director in 1992.
He was a valued member of my senior team and held a number of key Dividends positions, including Deputy Chief Executive, UK Bank.
The Board has recommended a final ordinary dividend for the year of 41.2p per share which, with the interim dividend of Emilio Botin and Juan Inciarte, both directors of SCH, 16.8p per share, makes a total for the year of 58.0p per share, resigned from the Board in November 2004, having served an increase of 15%.
The total amount payable to shareholders for over 15 and 9 years respectively.
I would like to pass on in the form of ordinary dividends for 2004 is 1,837 million.
my personal thanks for their contribution which has brought an extra dimension to Board discussions.
During their Board Staff profit sharing membership a highlight of our strategic alliance with SCH, Due to the strong financial performance of the Group, we which began in 1988, was its financial support of the Groups have again set the staff profit share for the year at 10% of successful acquisition of NatWest in 2000. basic salaries.
In September 2004, three new non-executive directors were appointed.
Archie Hunter was formerly Scottish senior partner Acquisitions of KPMG, Bud Koch was formerly chairman, president and During 2004 we strengthened our activities outside the UK chief executive officer of Charter One Financial, Inc. and through several acquisitions.
Joe MacHale was formerly a senior executive with JP Morgan.
Each of our new directors bring with them the experience to In the United States, we acquired Charter One, which enabled further strengthen the Board.
Citizens to extend its franchise into six adjacent states.
We completed the acquisition of Roxborough Manayunk Bank, in Pennsylvania, which had been announced in 2003, and also Outlook acquired the credit card business of Peoples Bank and the Economic growth during 2004 was strong in virtually all of the merchant acquirer Lynk Systems, Inc. economies in which we operate, and this trend is expected to continue in 2005, though at a slightly lower rate.
In Continental Europe we acquired Bibit, the internet payment specialist.
In Ireland, we completed the acquisition of First We remain confident that the strength, diversity and flexibility of Active, announced in 2003. our business will enable us to continue to deliver superior performance for our shareholders.
Sir George Mathewson, Chairman Chairmans statement RBS Ann Review 01-07 7 3 05 10:22 am Page 5 05 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Group review RBS Ann Review 01-07 7 3 05 10:22 am Page 6 Group Chief Executives review 06 Group Chief Executives review RBS Ann Review 01-07 7 3 05 10:22 am Page 7 07 Our customers In 2004 we continued to achieve strong We aim to deliver value for our customers.
Our success in growth across our activities, both achieving this in 2004 is shown by increased customer numbers in each of our divisions, as well as by positive surveys of organically and through acquisitions.
In Retail Banking for NatWest, the option to call branches direct and the appointment of over 1,000 We increased our total income by 18% additional branch staff have led to significant improvements in and improved our cost:income ratio to customer satisfaction.
During 2004 we again won many awards for our products and services.
Our profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs Our people Our people are the key to our success.
The continuing increased by 15% to 8,101 million.
commitment of our employees, even after their very hard work in previous years completing the integration of NatWest, is All our divisions increased their income evident from the results of our 2004 Employee Opinion Survey.
and their contribution to Group profit.
In this survey, the response rate was 84%, our highest ever, and the Group improved its score in 14 of the 15 categories surveyed.
We continue to invest in our employees through an It is pleasing that we continued to deliver strong organic growth extensive range of development and leadership programmes.
across our businesses, on top of the strong performance in As a result of organic growth and acquisitions, staff numbers previous years.
In addition to delivering strong organic growth, we completed Our shareholders several acquisitions during 2004.
The largest of these was the Our principal goal is to create value for our shareholders.
US bank Charter One, which enabled Citizens to expand into A key measure of our success towards this goal is the rate of several adjacent Midwestern states around the important cities increase in our dividend per share.
This is the 12th consecutive of Cleveland, Chicago and Detroit.
As a result of organic growth year in which we have increased our dividend per share by and acquisitions, Citizens is now the 8th largest commercial 15% or more.
Our 2004 dividend per share was covered nearly banking organisation in the United States, by deposits.
three times by adjusted earnings.
Through smaller acquisitions, we have established a presence in credit card issuing and merchant acquisition in the United Business outlook States, and a strengthened position in Continental Europe.
We continue to see strong growth in lending to commercial and These extensions to our capabilities enhance the options for mid-corporate customers, and some recovery in demand from the Group to expand its activities outside the United Kingdom.
large corporates, with consumers continuing to behave rationally During 2004 we reached agreement to distribute credit cards given the prevailing climate and stimuli in their particular to the customers of The Kroger Co. the second largest economies.
Whilst in the UK context we would expect the supermarket group in the United States, and to distribute transition away from consumer credit-led activity to continue, the consumer loan products to the customers of Tchibo, a leading outlook for employment and hence the economy remains positive.
In a number of respects, 2004 represented a continuation of All integrations of recently acquired businesses are on track.
established themes within our results: strong income growth, Several major stages in the IT conversion of Churchill have improving efficiency, good credit quality.
Importantly however, been completed successfully.
Implementation of the plan to the continued development, both organic and through integrate First Active is well under way and the initial stages in acquisition, of our businesses has introduced further strength the conversion of Charter One have already been implemented.
and diversity in key areas.
In each case, we are confident that we shall be able to deliver the expected transaction benefits.
As a consequence, we remain confident that we can deliver superior value for our shareholders, our customers and our people in 2005.
Sir Fred Goodwin, Group Chief Executive Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Group review RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 8 Group profile We continue to seek new opportunities to build and broaden the Groups business in the UK, US, Europe and Asia Pacific.
08 8 United Kingdom US CBFM CBFM Retail Banking Retail Direct Retail Direct Citizens Manufacturing Wealth Management RBS Insurance Ulster Bank 2004 2004 Income bn 17.5 Income bn 3.5 Operating profit bn 5.6 Operating profit bn 1.7 Loans to customers bn 233 Loans to customers bn 73 Deposits by customers bn 200 Deposits by customers bn 67 Employees 103,000 Employees 26,000 Group profile RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 9 09 Europe Asia Pacific CBFM CBFM Retail Direct Wealth Management Manufacturing Wealth Management RBS Insurance Ulster Bank 2004 2004 Income bn 1.6 Income bn 0.2 Operating profit bn 0.7 Operating profit bn 0.1 Loans to customers bn 36 Loans to customers bn 3 Deposits by customers bn 15 Deposits by customers bn 3 Employees 7,000 Employees 1,000 TOTAL 2004 Income bn 22.8 Operating profit bn 8.1 Loans to customers bn 345 Deposits by customers bn 285 Employees 137,000 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Group review RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 10 Divisional profile 10 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets Retail Banking Chief Executive Geography Chief Executive Geography Johnny Cameron UK, US, Europe and Asia Pacific Benny Higgins UK Corporate Banking & Financial Markets CBFM is the leading Through two of the UKs best-known banking brands, The Royal corporate bank in the UK, providing banking services and Bank of Scotland and NatWest, Retail Banking has the largest integrated financial solutions to medium-sized and large businesses.
network of bank branches and ATMs in the UK.
It offers a wide range of banking, financial, insurance, life assurance and pension CBFM is also a major provider of financing and risk management products through branches, direct banking and the internet.
It is solutions to international corporate and institutional clients through the leading bank for students and for small business customers.
operations across Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
During 2004 Retail Banking continued to expand its customer base and grow its loan portfolio, particularly in mortgages and deposits.
With all clients, CBFM focuses on building long-term relationships and meeting their specific needs.
Market data In 2004 CBFM continued to grow in the UK whilst expanding its Largest retail network in the UK operations in other markets.
2,273 branches Over 4,600 Natwest and Royal Bank of Scotland ATMs Market data Over 14 million personal customers Serves over 95% of the FTSE 100 Banking relationships with over 90% of the Dow Jones Eurostoxx 50 Largest provider of banking services to small and Serves over 75% of the FTSE 250 medium sized enterprises SMEs in the UK No.
1 Bookrunner of European Serves 60% of Fortune 100 leveraged loans Over 1.1 million business customers companies in the US No.
1 Global Agent for traditional US dollar cross-border private placements No.
1 provider of sterling FX and interest rate derivatives No.
1 for US government bond sales, RBS Greenwich Capital Top 3 for global currency options No.
4 Bookrunner for Syndicated Loans in Europe, Middle East & Africa, up from No.
7 in 2003 Top 5 globally for FX Divisional profile RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 11 11 Retail Direct Manufacturing Chief Executive Geography Chief Executive Geography Chris Sullivan UK, US and Europe Mark Fisher UK and Europe Retail Direct has leading positions in the UK in credit card issuing, Manufacturings diverse range of services supports the customer merchant acquiring, consumer finance and supermarket banking.
facing operations of the Groups multiple brands.
It provides It offers a comprehensive range of credit and charge cards through customer support via telephony, account management, lending, The Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and other brands, including mortgage processing and money transmission.
Other products and services are offered to consumers Group Technology continually develops and maintains the through Tesco Personal Finance, The One account, First Active, infrastructure and technology that supports the branches, ATMs Direct Line Financial Services, Lombard Direct and other brands.
and internet banking for customers of CBFM, Retail Banking, Through Streamline it is the leading merchant acquirer in the UK Retail Direct, Wealth Management and RBS Insurance.
and Europe, and ranks 4th globally.
Retail Direct also offers credit card issuing and acquiring services in the US and Europe, and a Purchasing is responsible for the vast majority of purchasing range of consumer finance products in Continental Europe.
undertaken by the Group, leveraging its scale to maximise cost efficiencies.
Market data The Groups property portfolio is managed, maintained and Almost 19 million customer accounts refurbished by Manufacturing which also oversees the property Nearly 15 million credit card and storecard accounts investment programme.
Over 2 million customer accounts in Europe Market data No.
1 in UK for cheque payments No.
1 in UK for Clearing House Automated Payment System No.
1 in UK for Bank Automated CHAPS transactions Clearing System BACS transactions Runs the UKs largest ATM network Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Group review RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 12 Divisional profile continued 12 Wealth Management RBS Insurance Chief Executive Geography Chief Executive Geography Gordon Pell UK, Europe, Asia Pacific and offshore locations Annette Court UK and Europe Wealth Management provides services to clients through premier RBS Insurance is the second largest general insurer in the UK.
brands in UK private banking and UK offshore banking, and It sells and underwrites general insurance via the telephone, through a network of more than 50 offices globally.
Coutts, the internet, partnerships and a network of brokers.
Its brands, Adam & Company and Coutts Bank von Ernst in Switzerland including Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege, Green Flag and NIG, offer private, corporate and expatriate client services including are some of the best known in the UK.
banking, wealth management, investment management, financial planning and trust and fiduciary services.
The offshore banking Market data business offers retail banking services to local and expatriate Second largest general insurer in the UK customers and corporate banking and treasury services to No.
1 for UK motor insurance corporate, intermediary and institutional clients.
2 for UK home insurance Over 22 million in-force policies Market data Over 8 million UK motor policies Premier UK private banking brand Over 5 million UK home policies Over 100,000 private banking customers Largest tele-direct motor insurer in Spain Third largest foreign-owned bank in Switzerland Over 1.6 million international motor policies A leading player in offshore banking in the UK 170,000 offshore customers Divisional profile RBS Ann Review 08-13 7 3 05 10:24 am Page 13 13 Ulster Bank Citizens Chief Executive Geography Chairman, President and Geography Cormac McCarthy Ireland Chief Executive Officer New England, Mid-Atlantic and Larry Fish Midwest regions of US Ulster Bank is the third largest bank in Ireland.
During 2004 Citizens is now the eighth largest banking organisation in the US Ulster Bank completed the acquisition of First Active, which by deposits.
The acquisition of Charter One in 2004 enabled it to strengthened its position in the Republic of Ireland and enhanced expand into six adjacent states in the northeastern and midwestern its capabilities in mortgages.
Ulster Bank provides a full range US.
Citizens offers personal banking, residential mortgages and of banking and financial products and services, for personal home equity loans, and a wide variety of commercial banking customers and corporates, via branches, telephone and the internet.
services, through its growing network of city centre, local and supermarket branches.
Market data Market data Third largest bank in the Republic of Ireland Eighth largest commercial banking organisation in the US ranked by deposits Largest bank in Northern Ireland Third largest supermarket bank in the US 1.5 million personal and business customers No.
2 US Small Business Administration lender 300 branches and business outlets 4.8 million personal and business customers No.
2 for mortgages in the Republic of Ireland Retail presence in 13 states and products and services available in over 30 states Over 1,100 traditional bank branches Nearly 500 in-store branches Over 2,800 ATMs Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Group review RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:26 am Page 14 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets Profit contribution 4,265 million 2003 3,620 million Total income up 12% Profit up 18% 14 BellSouth.
Enabling new leadership in the US wireless industry: in 2004 RBS Greenwich Capital provided BellSouth, a Fortune 100 communications services company, with financing advice for Cingulars acquisition of AT&T Wireless creating the biggest wireless carrier in the United States.
Acting as joint bookrunner, RBS Greenwich Capital placed US$1.5 billion of securities across the US, European and Asian markets.
Make it happen Corporate Banking & Financial Markets RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:26 am Page 15 15 CBFM is also the market leader in large Corporate Banking & Financial corporate banking in the UK, with relationships Markets CBFM provides banking with over 95% of the FTSE 100, and over 75% of the FTSE 250.
It has well established and rapidly services and integrated financial expanding corporate and institutional client solutions to corporate and franchises in Continental Europe, North America and in selected markets in Asia Pacific.
institutional customers in the UK As the UK market leader in the provision and around the world through its of corporate banking services, CBFM provides a presence in the major financial full range of traditional banking services through 1,500 relationship managers in 150 offices across centres across the globe.
the country and offers additional products and We are committed to developing long-term services through a number of business areas that relationships with our clients and providing solutions are tailored to different client needs.
that are targeted at meeting their specific needs.
In a highly competitive market, CBFM CBFMs extensive product range includes achieved strong growth in its core UK mid-market cash and liquidity management and comprehensive business.
We have broadened and deepened our debt, risk management and treasury services.
product range to be as relevant as possible to our Debt services include overdraft, bilateral and customers.
We have enhanced our service model syndicated lending and primary bond issuance, to ensure our relationship managers spend more trade finance and asset finance, and through our time with them, understanding their businesses and Structured Finance business, structured, property addressing their domestic and international needs, and acquisition finance, project and infrastructure and less time undertaking administrative tasks.
Risk management and treasury services include global interest rate Amongst our specialist businesses, derivatives trading, corporate, institutional and Lombard is the leading provider of asset finance sovereign debt trading, futures brokerage, foreign to UK businesses, catering for a wide range of exchange, money markets, currency derivative and financing options ranging from traditional hire rate risk management services.
purchase, leasing and contract hire through to complex, bespoke solutions.
Operating through three principal businesses Core Corporate Bank, Structured Finance and RBS Commercial Services RBSCS is the Financial Markets CBFM focuses on addressing largest invoice discounting business in the UK.
client needs in two broad groupings: banking RBSCS provides financing of debtors and stock, services for UK businesses, and banking services credit control services and bad debt protection for global corporates and institutions.
for customers to cover against debtor default.
Banking services for UK businesses CBFMs integrated approach ensures In the mid-market, in the UK, CBFM serves that customers also benefit from the full range the full spectrum of corporate and commercial of capabilities in the Structured Finance and customers and is the UKs No.
relationship bank, with 33% market share.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:26 am Page 16 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets continued RBS is the fastest growing corporate relationship bank in Europe.
CBFM has relationships with 80% of the CAC 40, the largest companies in France.
In Germany we have relationships with more than 75% of the DAX 30 companies.
Transmanche Ferries operates cross-channel ferries between the Seine Maritime region of France and the south coast of England, carrying both trade and tourists.
Our Corporate Banking team in Paris joined forces with a series of specialist teams from across Europe to arrange the 100 million credit facility to allow Transmanche to purchase two new state-of-the-art ferries.
Make it happen Corporate Banking & Financial Markets RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:27 am Page 17 17 Examples of our delivery to clients to Scandinavian clients.
In each of these countries in 2004 include: we aim to be the top non-domestic corporate bank.
With a groundbreaking finance structure, we were able to act as Sole Bookrunner and Mandated In the US, CBFM is successfully deploying Lead Arranger for the 530 million debt package the same relationship-led approach that is used in supporting the secondary buyout of Baxi, one of the UK and Continental Europe to progressively build the leading providers of heating products and the business.
During 2004 we launched a new services in Europe.
corporate bonds business that builds on our industryleading US government bonds and asset-backed We provided Songbird Estates plc, a special securities operations at RBS Greenwich Capital.
purpose acquisition vehicle, with 901 million of acquisition financing for their purchase of Canary CBFM has been building its presence in Wharf Group plc.
selected markets in Asia Pacific as well as growing the business in Australia where we now offer a wide We acted as Lead Arranger for award range of products to both corporate and institutional winning care and services provider Barchester customers.
In 2004 we opened branches in Australia Healthcare in their 525 million acquisition of and Shanghai and gained approval for new offices nursing home group, Westminster Healthcare.
in Korea and Labuan, Malaysia.
We provided an export loan facility for Structured Finance has expertise in Hammersmith-based XPAP Recycling Ltd, an specialised financing around the globe.
In Europe exporter of pulp from the UK and Europe to SE Asia.
we are the market leader as an arranger of project finance, property finance, and acquisition finance, In the voluntary sector CBFM has provided working particularly closely with the growing number ongoing assistance to Acevo the professional of private equity sponsors.
We are now seeing very organisation for voluntary sector chief executives good growth in these businesses in the US as well.
that seeks to influence national policy concerning We are also a leading European asset finance the charities sector.
provider, particularly in trains and aircraft, through Angel Trains and RBS Aviation Capital.
Banking services for GlobaI Corporates Financial Markets has continued to grow and Institutions in sterling, US dollar and euro bond markets and A key feature of CBFM in the global over the last two years RBS has been the fastest debt financing markets is our focus on long-term growing player in the euro bond market, providing relationships, backed by our strong balance sheet further evidence of RBSs position as a global and suite of value-added product capabilities.
force in the bond markets.
Our foreign exchange business, where we are now one of the market CBFM currently has relationships with over leaders, is ranked 5th in the world.
90% of the Dow Jones Eurostoxx 50 index of leading European companies and we have made excellent progress developing relationships across Europe.
In Deals undertaken in 2004 include: addition to growing operations in France, Germany, RBS was Joint Bookrunner and Liquidity Spain and Italy, we are the leading property leasing Provider for Avivas 418.5 million UK equity release company in the Nordic region.
Our new branch in mortgage securitisation, a new fast-growing sector Stockholm offers a broad range of CBFM products in the UK mortgage market.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:27 am Page 18 Corporate Banking & Financial Markets continued For the last five years RBS has been the leading provider of banking services to UK businesses with a current market share of 33%.
18 Shire Foods Shire Foods, creators of Footballs Famous Chicken Balti Pies, now supply over 60 football clubs.
Commercial Banking provided 3.7 million of property and leasing finance for a new production facility in Leamington Spa.
Pendragon Mel Secure Systems Pendragon is the UKs Mel Secure Systems is one leading motor vehicle of the UK's leading retailer.
Selling a wide range providers of wireless CCTV of marques from Porsche technology.
Commercial to Ford, it turned to our Banking and RBS Midlands Corporate Banking Commercial Services team as Joint Mandated helped finance a move to Lead Arranger for a 450 new premises and provided million Syndicated Facility.
Make it happen Corporate Banking & Financial Markets RBS Ann Review 14-19 7 3 05 10:27 am Page 19 19 We were the only bank to be appointed on We were Financial Adviser and Bookrunner every sterling bond transaction that Network Rail for the record-breaking US$7.63 billion Qatargas II executed in 2004.
These included a 2.25 billion project financing, which provided funds for the deal, the largest ever single tranche sterling bond development of offshore and liquefaction facilities issue outside the gilt market.
in Qatar as well as an LNG import terminal in South Wales.
Qatargas II was voted EMEA gas deal of the With the role of Joint Bookrunner and Joint year by PFI Magazine.
Lead Manager, we provided Lloyds of London with a debut subordinated issue, the first time Lloyds In the United States we held the role of have raised funds in the bond market in their 300 Joint Lead Arranger in the leveraged buyout of year history.
Mandalay Resort Group by MGM MIRAGE.
At US$7 billion, the friendly acquisition was the The strength of our UK German links was largest leveraged deal of 2004. demonstrated when RBS was awarded the biggest banking tender in the UK corporate marketplace in Selected Awards 2004 when gaining the sole UK transmission banking Best Mid-Market Debt Provider contract for RWE Group AG, one of Europes largest in Europe 2004 utility groups.
European Venture Capital Journal In Italy, we acted as Joint Bookrunner for the Worlds Best Project Finance House 1.3 billion senior notes offering for Lighthouse S. A. Euromoney guaranteed by Seat Pagine Gialle.
The transaction was the largest ever single tranche high yield bond Best Global Bank issued in the European market and was named Project Finance International High Yield Deal of the Year by Credit Magazine.
Best Senior Debt Provider in Europe We acted as Bookrunner and Mandated for the 4th year running Lead Arranger in the 4.5 billion financing of Auna Private Equity International Group, the second largest telecommunications group in Spain.
The deal was the largest structured Best cross border securitisation, syndicated transaction in Spain in 2004. for Korea First Bank We acted as a Joint Bookrunner for Finance Asia Wal-Mart, the largest retailer in the world, in a 1 billion sterling bond issue, equal to the Bank of the Year: RBS Greenwich Capital largest ever long-dated corporate bond issue.
Real Estate Finance Investment's CMBS Awards We completed our first  Ranked No.
1 for sterling swaps for transaction in South Korea a US$100 million 12 consecutive years warehouse loan for Samsung Card Co. Risk Magazine Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 20 Retail Banking Profit contribution 3,279 million 2003 3,170 million Total income up 6% Profit up 3% 20 Student Banking.
Access to cheap train travel is high on the priority list for many students across the UK.
So offering a free Young Persons Railcard giving 30% off most rail fares for 5 years has proved a popular addition to NatWests student banking service.
NatWest was once again the No.
1 bank for students in 2004, increasing its market share of first year students in England and Wales from 25% to 42%.
Make it happen Retail Banking RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 21 21 Royal Bank of Scotland is rated number one Retail Banking has the largest for overall customer satisfaction in Scotland.
network of bank branches and NatWest is the number one bank for students.
ATMs in the UK, and is the Of first year students in England and Wales, 42% leading bank for small business chose to open an account with us, compared with 25% last year.
During 2004 Retail Banking expanded its customer Our internet banking service continues to see strong growth.
Active customer numbers are base, grew its loan portfolio, up 39% on 2003, and the number of customers particularly in mortgages, and applying to use the service rose by 41%.
The average daily volume of internet payments rose increased its deposits.
Banking increased its total income Royal Bank of Scotland launched its by 6% to 4,742 million.
thirteenth mobile banking service in August, serving 20 villages near Helensburgh.
Our mobile Retail Banking increased its personal banks now serve more than 300 rural communities customers by 268,000 2% and its personal in Scotland.
Retail Banking was particularly successful in recruiting We have stepped up our efforts to protect youth and student accounts.
Retail Banking also our customers from increasingly sophisticated maintained its leading market share of small attempted frauds.
We have introduced new business customers.
processes to make it easier for customers to report suspected fraudulent activity on their Average loans and advances to customers accounts, and improved protection against grew by 17%.
Average mortgage balances increased wrongful transfer of funds.
by 21%, personal loans by 14% and small business loans by 13%.
Average customer deposits grew Our new mortgage processing system has by 8%.
improved the efficiency and quality of our service.
This is reflected in the numerous awards we have Customer service won for our mortgage services.
We continue to provide our customers with a choice of ways to contact us, including telephoning the branches direct.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 22 Retail Banking continued Retail Banking provides a wide range of financial products and services to both the personal and small business markets through a combination of its branches, telephone banking, the internet and its network of ATMs.
James Walker, a sprightly 76 year old enjoys, amongst other hobbies, hand painting table cloths.
He has taken advantage of a range of our retail banking products available in his local branch in Edinburgh, including an interest bearing current account and a deposit and interest savings tracker account.
Make it happen Retail Banking RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 23 23 Business customers A new system of screen prompts enables We helped our business customers to our branch and telephone banking staff to identify grow with total lending up 11% in 2004.
Customer products or services that are directly relevant to balances in our competitive range of deposit our customers financial needs.
These prompts help products grew by 7%.
us to spot ways of saving our customers money one customer in four has expressed interest in The Flexible Business Loan, launched in pursuing the conversation.
August, is a market-leading product which allows customers to customise their loan.
They can pick the Products options that suit them best at the start of the loan, Our new Offset Banking Service allows both and then change them if their circumstances alter.
NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland customers to set their current and savings account balances NatWest and Royal Bank of Scotland lent against a mortgage.
This saves interest and shortens 546 million last year to small businesses based the life of the mortgage.
Unlike other banks, we in the most deprived areas of the UK.
offer the Offset Service to small businesses as well as personal customers.
Mentor, our small business advice service, saw a 49% increase in net income.
Significant Over 70,000 customers have signed up for improvements in our service offering and stronger the Royalties Premier Account, which combines all relationships with our Business Relationship Manager the features of a current account with a range of networks helped to increase our customer base services to save them time and money.
include a personal travel adviser, home emergency service, worldwide family travel insurance and Royal Bank of Scotlands Agricultural Services discounts on a wide range of books, DVDs, team have offered their general farm insurance restaurants and financial services.
product in conjunction with Farmweb insurance brokers for their first full year during 2004.
This Customers can now top up their mobile product can be tailored to meet the individual needs phones through our 4,600 NatWest and Royal Bank of farm businesses under one policy, including an of Scotland ATMs.
Customers simply insert their increasing range of diversification activities.
cash card and select the mobile phone top-up option to credit their prepay phones.
1.2 million transactions have taken place since the service was launched in April 2004.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 24 Retail Banking continued Retail Banking places customer service at the heart of its strategy, measuring and improving its delivery on a continuous basis.
24 Branch Network Alan Bembridge with his dog Henry is a regular visitor to Derbys St Peter Street branch, one of over 2,200 branches in the Group.
We are able to supply him with letters, brochures and statements in both large print and braille.
Offset Mortgage Business Customer An offset mortgage from SJ Solicitors in Ilford is a his local branch of The NatWest business banking Royal Bank of Scotland customer.
Our flexible has provided James Sheriff business loan offers them with the financial flexibility a range of payment he needed to realise his options and the ability to dream of flying.
match their outgoings with available cash flow.
Make it happen Retail Banking RBS Ann Review 20-25 7 3 05 10:30 am Page 25 25 Awards Royal Bank of Scotland Best Current NatWest Account Provider voted by readers for the second Best Bank for a record eleventh time year running Best Offset Lender Personal Finance Magazine Your Mortgage Magazine Awards Royal Bank of Scotland voted Remortgage Royal Bank of Scotland Lender of the Year.
Best 100% mortgage lender Financial Adviser Mortgage Awards Your Mortgage Magazine Awards Royal Bank of Scotland named Mortgage NatWest Lender of the Year.
Five Star Service award in the Mortgage Lenders and Packagers category Mortgage Strategy Most Improved Mortgage in the Mortgage Lenders and Packagers category Royal Bank of Scotland voted Best Provider of Commercial Mortgages for Small Businesses.
Financial Adviser Service Awards Mortgage Introducer Magazine NatWest Best Direct Mortgage Provider for the fifth time Best Direct Business Banking Provider Royal Bank of Scotland Best Direct Banking Provider our fourth consecutive win Best Online Business Banking Provider Your Money Direct Awards Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 26 Retail Direct Profit contribution 1,040 million 2003 881 million Total income up 16% Profit up 18% 26 Lynk.
Lynk Systems of Atlanta was acquired by RBS during 2004.
Lynk provides electronic payment, cash dispensing and e-commerce services across the US to over 75,000 merchants.
Already a top 4 global player through Streamline, RBS now has access to the worlds largest credit card market and the opportunity to offer state of the art technology to its business customers in Citizens, Charter One and RBS Corporate Banking.
The City of Boston is both a Citizens and Lynk customer.
Make it happen Retail Direct Retail Direct RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 27 27 During 2004 Retail Direct continued to grow Retail Direct has leading positions the number of UK credit card accounts through in the UK in credit card issuing, The Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and newlyestablished MINT brands.
merchant acquiring, consumer finance and supermarket banking.
The MINT credit card was successfully rolled out in 2004.
With its curved-shape card, During 2004 Retail Direct built MINT brought about the first development in the shape of the credit card in the UK since their on its position, through its range introduction 38 years ago, and is recognised by of strong brands and direct customers as an innovative and forward-thinking brand.
The new MINT brand makes full use of the channels, and expanded its internet channel, with over 45% of credit card activities outside the UK.
Retail applications being made online.
By the end of 2004, 711,000 cards had been issued with Direct increased its total income balances amounting to 1 billion.
MINTs development continued with the launch of MINT by 16% to 2,129 million.
During 2004 Retail Direct increased its total Retail Direct continued to achieve strong customer accounts by 14% to 18.9 million.
Retail growth in its commercial card business.
The Direct achieved organic growth in its credit card, innovative commercial One Card product, which personal loan and mortgage customers, and in its offers an expense and payment management merchant acquiring relationships.
Retail Direct also solution for businesses, continued to grow and increased its customer base through acquisitions strengthen our relationships with SMEs, corporate in the Netherlands and the US.
Average loans to customers grew by 19%.
In merchant acquiring 2004 was another Average card balances grew by 24%, reflecting the record year for Streamline, which processed over launch of the MINT card and the acquisition of the 2.7 billion transactions.
credit card business of Peoples Bank.
Personal loan balances grew by 17% and mortgage lending WorldPay, our internet payment specialist, by 16%.
also had a record year, reflecting strong growth in the volume of shopping on the internet.
During Cards business 2004, WorldPay further strengthened its position Our credit card issuing businesses combine following the acquisition of Bibit, an internet to make one of the largest in the UK.
In merchant payment specialist based in the Netherlands.
acquiring, RBS is number one in the UK, and ranks WorldPay is now the leading internet payment fourth globally.
specialist in the EU, and provides services to internet retailers in over 40 countries.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 28 Retail Direct continued We respond to our customers evolving needs by making diverse and innovative products accessible through a variety of convenient channels.
Tesco Personal Finance is the most successful supermarket bank in the UK with close to 5 million customers.
Our award-winning Life Insurance product provides the security and peace of mind that family and loved ones are protected.
Mak Make e it ha it happen ppen Retail Direct RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 29 29 Tesco Personal Finance Retail Direct opened a new state-of-the-art Tesco Personal Finance extended its position Credit Card Centre in Southend.
This purpose-built as the most successful supermarket bank in the UK.
centre creates an excellent working environment for It achieved a further increase of more than 10% our employees, helping them to deliver improved in its customer accounts, to 4.8 million, including service for our customers.
2.4 million motor and other insurance policies and 1.7 million credit cards.
Retail Direct is an industry leader in the Chip and PIN programme which provides customers with Tesco Personal Finance launched an enhanced security against fraud.
Almost all our innovative new Instant Life Insurance package, terminals in retailers are now equipped with the to augment the range of instant products already new technology, and by the end of 2004 80% of available in store including breakdown cover and our customers credit cards and debit cards had travel insurance.
been replaced with chip-enabled cards.
Tesco Personal Finance extended its In June 2004, First Active mortgages were activities in Tesco stores in Hungary and Ireland.
launched in the UK, building on the Groups acquisition of First Active in Ireland in January 2004.
First Active mortgages were offered initially International through intermediaries, and subsequently by In Continental Europe, Retail Direct continued telephone and the internet.
By the end of 2004, significant organic growth in volumes, both in its mortgage applications amounted to 1 billion.
traditional business and increasingly in direct loans.
Retail Direct also established a presence in the US.
Lombard Direct and Direct Line Financial Services increased their personal loan balances.
In Continental Europe, Retail Direct acquired Bibit, an internet payment specialist based in the Primeline, our direct banking business, Netherlands.
increased its customers by 8% through new affiliate relationships with partners such as BA Executive Club.
Retail Direct reached agreement with Tchibo to distribute consumer loan products to its customers.
Tchibo is a leading retailer in Germany, where it has around 1,000 stores.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 30 Retail Direct continued We have continued to seek new opportunities to build Retail Directs business through organic growth, strategic acquisitions and new partnerships in the UK, US and Europe.
30 Tchibo We have expanded our distribution capability in Europe through our partnership with Tchibo, which has around 1,000 stores in Germany alone.
The brand reaches over two thirds of Germany's households.
Streamline The Kroger Co. International We have expanded our Winner of the Queens distribution capability Award for Enterprise in the US through our within the International partnership with The Trade Category.
Kroger Co. which is the second largest supermarket in the US, with 3,774 stores.
Make it happen Retail Direct RBS Ann Review 26-31 7 3 05 10:33 am Page 31 31 In the US, Retail Direct led the acquisition of The One account the credit card business of Peoples Bank.
Migration Bank Lender of the Year 2004 of this business to the newly-established RBS Offset Mortgage Lender of the Year National Bank is on track.
Retail Direct also Financial Adviser Awards acquired Lynk Systems, the 9th largest merchant acquirer in the United States.
Credit cards and The One account Best Lifestyle Lender merchant acquiring services will be offered to the Mortgage Strategy Awards business customers of Citizens, Charter One, and RBS Corporate Banking.
Tesco Personal Finance Best Direct Life Insurance Provider Retail Direct established a partnership with Best Online Motor Insurance Provider The Kroger Co. to distribute credit cards to its Best Direct Motor Insurance Provider customers.
The Kroger Co. is the second largest Best Online Personal Loan Provider supermarket in the United States, with 3,774 stores.
Your Money Awards During the second half of 2004, a Kroger credit card with a Kroger rewards feature was launched in Ohio, Tesco Personal Finance Most Competitive and will be expanded to other states during 2005.
Term Assurance Provider Money Facts Awards Streamline International The Queens Tesco Personal Finance Best Personal Award for Enterprise within the International Trade Loan Provider category Personal Finance Magazine MINT The Innovation Award Lombard Direct Best Personal Loan Institute of Financial Services for its advertising campaign Provider Moneyfacts The One account Best Current Account Mortgage Lender Lombard Direct International Best Your Mortgage Awards Personal Loan Website MAPA The One account 5 star award Financial Adviser Service Awards Primeline Marketing Employer of the Year Award Marketing Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 32-35 7 3 05 10:35 am Page 32 Manufacturing Manufacturing is the backbone of RBS, supplying IT, processing, telephone, property and purchasing support for the Groups customer-facing divisions.
Spinningfields has involved the re-development of a substantial brownfield site.
The Group employs around 5,000 people in Manchester and has consolidated a number of its major businesses here on one campus.
A similar strategy has been implemented in London and Birmingham, and Edinburgh will follow in 2005.
Make it happen Manufacturing Manufacturing RBS Ann Review 32-35 7 3 05 10:35 am Page 33 33 During 2004 Manufacturing printed and During 2004 Manufacturing despatched 349 million bank statements and supported increased volumes insurance documents to RBS customers, an increase of almost 7% over the previous year.
of business and made good progress on the IT integrations Our network of over 6,100 ATMs processed 576 million transactions during 2004.
The daily of Churchill and First Active.
average volume was 1.6 million transactions, dispensing 96 million.
Manufacturing also completed regional centres for RBS Since April 2004, when we enabled customers to top-up their prepay mobile phones through our employees in Birmingham and ATM network, there have been a total of 1.4 million Manchester and maintained its such transactions through Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and Tesco Personal Finance ATMs.
We established dedicated corporate service centres to deal exclusively with our corporate and During 2004 Manufacturing opened 893,000 commercial customers.
This was equivalent to 491 new accounts per working hour.
During 2004 Group Technology helped RBS Insurance complete several major stages in the We processed over 21 million CHAPS conversion of Churchill onto the core IT platform.
payments valued at over 40 trillion 8% more in volume than 2003.
The IT operations of seven businesses were consolidated onto the Group Technology IT During 2004 call centres supporting platform in 2004 Direct Line, Green Flag, Retail The Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest received Investment Services, Lombard Direct, The One 71 million calls, 3 million more than in 2003. account, Wealth Management and Lombard Asset Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest customers Management.
can telephone their branch or use our automated service.
They can speak to our UK based call centre staff 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 32-35 7 3 05 10:35 am Page 34 Manufacturing continued Often referred to as The Engine Room, Manufacturing enables the Group to function 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
34 TNT Group Purchasing continue to develop strategic partnerships with a number of suppliers for example, TNT now make over 9,400 deliveries and collections on behalf of the Group every day.
Image and Workflow Mail Handling Our new Image and and Logistics Workflow system captures During 2004 we customer letters and turns transformed our mail them into electronic images, handling and logistics, which can be processed saving over 35 miles of efficiently by service centre paper every night, and staff.
creating a next day delivery network.
Make it happen Manufacturing Manufacturing RBS Ann Review 32-35 7 3 05 10:35 am Page 35 35 Group Technology upgraded the technology Our e-sourcing programme continues to be serving the branch networks delivering highone of the largest of any financial services company speed bandwidth capability to 2,273 branches.
More than 100 on-line bidding events, with a total value in excess of 2.5 billion, have A new mortgage system to support multiple taken place since the inception of the programme brands across the Group was introduced in 2004. in 2001.
This has enabled a significant reduction in the time taken to process mortgage applications and We launched a new e-purchasing system, improve customer service.
which provides a one-stop-shop for goods and services purchased by employees across the Manufacturing completed over 215,000 Group.
The new on-line ordering process has new mortgage applications for Group customers.
already been used by 10,000 employees.
We donate the use of our call centres to Manufacturing has introduced Image and national charity campaigns.
During Children in Workflow technology into its service centres to help Need in November, three of our centres took over reduce the amount of paper in circulation and 22,000 pledge calls contributing over 610,000 to improve efficiency.
As each piece of paper comes the total raised.
into the centres, it is stored as an image that can be called up and processed at any location.
Awards Group Property manages 3,384 properties Corporate Occupier of the Year for the Group, including 2,273 branches.
The Scottish Property Awards combined floor area of these properties is 2.2 million square metres.
Best Direct Banking Provider Your Money Magazine fourth year running During 2004 Manufacturing invested in developing new properties for the Group.
Over 4,000 employees moved into new premises in Best use of Contact Centres Manchester and Birmingham.
Financial Sector Technology We received an excellent rating from Best use of IT in Retail Banking BREEAM Building Research Establishment for ATM mobile phone top-up project Environmental Assessment Method for the design, European Banking Technology Awards construction and building management of the Groups new headquarters at Gogarburn, which is nearing completion.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 36-37 7 3 05 10:37 am Page 36 Wealth Management Profit contribution 468 million 2003 402 million Total income up 17% Profit up 16% 36 Ozwald Boateng.
The name Ozwald Boateng is synonymous with the finest of Saville Row tailoring.
During 2004, Coutts launched a new super premium charge card, designed by Ozwald Boateng.
Cardholders benefit from a concierge service and hospitality packages at events such as Wimbledon, the Monaco Grand Prix and the Cannes Film Festival.
Make it happen Wealth Management RBS Ann Review 36-37 7 3 05 10:37 am Page 37 37 Adam & Company continued its ten year Wealth Management provides record of profit growth, benefiting from continued private banking and investment investment in additional private bankers.
services to its global clients Investment programmes within Wealth through a number of leading UK Management have grown by 25% to US$17 billion and continue to perform competitively against and overseas private banking industry benchmarks.
Coutts is a significant investor in multi-manager hedge funds with more subsidiaries and offshore banking than US$6 billion invested.
It has a network of Outside the UK, Coutts completed the more than 50 offices globally.
integration of Bank von Ernst, which was acquired During 2004 Wealth Management in 2003, to create Coutts Bank von Ernst, which is now the third largest foreign-owned bank in expanded its business in the UK Switzerland.
and internationally and completed Coutts Asia celebrated ten years in Hong the integration of Bank von Ernst.
Coutts continues to expand its team of private bankers in Hong Kong, to take advantage Its total income increased by of rapid economic growth in the region.
Awards Coutts Wealth Management expanded its client Best UK bank for wealthy entertainers base particularly in the UK, where client numbers Best UK bank for wealthy sports players grew by 8%.
Best for super affluent Euromoney Average loans to clients grew by 9%, while average client deposits grew by 4%.
Best use of long-only multi manager structures Investment assets under management increased by 7%, allowing for exchange rate Private Asset Managers movements, and excluding acquisitions and disposals.
Awarded Cool Brand Leaders status The Superbrands organisation Coutts continued to enhance its position as the leading private bank in the UK.
Coutts Customer Contact Centre of the Year Finalist increased the number of private bankers across National Customer Service Awards its regional network by 38%.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 38-41 7 3 05 10:38 am Page 38 RBS Insurance Profit contribution 862 million 2003 609 million Total income up 52% Profit up 42% 38 RBS Insurance Field Team.
RBS Insurance has field teams based all over the country, visiting homes to assess damage and authorise claims to proceed, so our customers can return their lives to normal just as quickly as possible.
Make it happen RBS Insurance RBS Ann Review 38-41 7 3 05 10:38 am Page 39 39 RBS Insurance increased its travel insurance RBS Insurance is the second policies to 1.65 million to become the No.
2 travel largest general insurer in the insurer, and its pet insurance policies to almost 500,000.
Its brands include Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege, The Direct Line red phone continues to have the highest awareness of any general insurance Green Flag and NIG.
Direct Lines sponsorship of Channel 4s set of top rating property programmes has proved of organic growth and the full year extremely successful.
impact of Churchill, which was Churchill embarked on a new marketing acquired in September 2003, campaign in June, featuring the popular nodding RBS Insurance increased its total dog brand and his famous Oh Yes!
The campaign focused on the benefits of the income by 52% to 4,934 million.
service and reinforced the potential savings that could be made by switching to Churchill.
The campaign was a major success, delivering record Across its range of brands and products, levels of brand awareness and sales.
RBS Insurance increased its total policies in-force by 2 million to over 22 million.
Within this total motor The Privilege brand was re-launched in policies increased by 5% to almost 10 million.
August with a new TV campaign, featuring Joanna Lumley.
The marketing campaign is targeted at In the United Kingdom, RBS Insurance is customers with 4 or more years no claims discount.
1 motor insurer, with over 8 million policies, and the No.
2 home insurer, with over 5 million In October, a new intermediary business policies.
The new company, RBS Insurance Brokers, provides commercial insurance for small In Continental Europe, RBS Insurance business customers of Retail Banking.
increased its motor insurance policies by 15% to 1.6 million.
NIG is the broker channel specialist within RBS Insurance, offering personal and commercial RBS Insurance now has almost 5 million insurance through a large number of UK insurance motor rescue policies sold through Direct Line, brokers.
Churchill and Privilege and through many partners under their brands.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 38-41 7 3 05 10:38 am Page 40 RBS Insurance continued RBS is the strength behind some of the UKs biggest and best known brands offering customers more choice and better products.
40 Churchill Pet Insurance Churchill gives pet owners the peace of mind that they can meet the cost of treatment for their pets, should they need it.
Motor Rescue Motor Repair Centres Green Flag is called out Our network of motor repair to help motorists over centres, with teams of 100 times an hour.
specialists to assess damage and complete repairs, ensure that our customers are back on the road as quickly as possible.
Make it happen RBS Insurance RBS Ann Review 38-41 7 3 05 10:38 am Page 41 41 Awards In addition to selling insurance under its Direct Line Best Car Insurer own brands and through the broker channel, RBS Insurance sells a range of insurance products Personal Finance Magazine through partners under their brands, through UKI Partnerships, its dedicated partnerships division.
Devitt Product of the Year Services UKI Partnerships continued to build on its position Motorcycle News Dealer Awards as a leading wholesale provider by adding to its impressive list of clients, and underlined its ability Direct Line voted Best Insurance Call to work alongside high-profile brands.
Centre by readers The Mail on Sunday The integration of Churchill is on track, with the major stages in IT conversion completed.
Direct Line Best Household Insurance Provider In response to emergency situations such Mortgage Magazine as the floods at Boscastle, our Assistance business put dedicated teams on the ground to deal with Green Flag Motoring Assistance claims promptly and efficiently.
Best Direct Breakdown Cover Provider 2004 Your Money Direct Awards Direct Line and Green Flag Motoring Assistance continue to be headline sponsors of Green Flag Motoring Assistance Road Safety Week.
This is an annual event, in Best Online Breakdown Cover Provider November, to address road safety issues, organised by the national road safety charity Brake.
In 2004 2004 Your Money Direct Awards Green Flag Motoring Assistance supported Beep Beep day an event aimed at providing road Churchill Best Online Pet Insurance safety education for pre-school children.
Provider 2004 Your Money Direct Awards Direct Line Pet Insurance has been working with the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty Churchill Best Online Home Contents to Animals SSPCA since 1998.
So far this has Insurance Provider raised over 70,000 for the charity.
2004 Your Money Direct Awards Direct Line Insurer Underwriter of the Year International Travel Insurance Journal Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 42-43 7 3 05 10:39 am Page 42 Ulster Bank Profit contribution 468 million 2003 354 million Total income up 28% Profit up 32% 42 New Branch.
Our 887 million acquisition of First Active was completed in January 2004, consolidating our position as one of the top 3 providers of financial services across Ireland.
First Active plc is a niche provider of mortgage and investment products offering specialist advice to consumers.
We continued the extensive investment programme in First Actives distribution network with the opening of an additional four mortgage and investment stores in the Republic of Ireland.
Make it happen Ulster Bank RBS Ann Review 42-43 7 3 05 10:39 am Page 43 43 included the first Public Private Partnership for the Ulster Bank is the third largest bank regeneration of a central Dublin public housing in Ireland.
During 2004 Ulster Bank complex, and the financing of Tynagh Power, one of the largest deals of its type in Ireland in 2004. completed the acquisition of 2004 was a very successful growth year First Active, which strengthened its for Business Centres in the Republic of Ireland, position in the Republic of Ireland demonstrating the strength of the operating model.
Its loan book increased by 43% driven by and enhanced its capabilities in drawdowns which were up 65% on 2003. mortgages.
As a result of organic Various innovative products were introduced growth and the acquisition of during 2004.
Ulster Bank launched U First Gold, a premium current account with a range of financial First Active, Ulster Banks total and lifestyle benefits, and an award-winning switcher income increased by 28% to mortgage service.
First Active launched tracker mortgages and 100% mortgages for professionals.
Ulster Bank has worked closely with Ulster Bank achieved strong growth in both Manufacturing to plan and implement the integration personal and business customers.
It now has of First Active.
In connection with this, the IT 1.5 million personal and business customers.
platforms supporting both Ulster Bank and First Active will be converted to RBSs main IT platform Average loans to customers grew by 72%, which already supports both the Royal Bank of while average customer deposits grew by 35%.
Excluding First Active, average loans to customers grew by 27%, and average customer deposits by 8%.
Awards The Ulster Bank Switcher Mortgage A principal reason for the growth in lending Top Home Loan was rapid expansion of the combined mortgage The Sunday Tribune book.
In the Republic of Ireland, mortgage sales across the Ulster Bank and First Active brands The Ulster Bank Zinc Card increased by 60%.
In Northern Ireland, Ulster Bank Top Credit Card increased its mortgage sales by over 30%.
The Sunday Tribune Ulster Bank continued to expand its credit card business.
Ulster Bank is now the leading Ulster Banks Aimhigher campaign was provider of credit cards in Northern Ireland and recognised with a special citation for Corporate is growing rapidly in the Republic of Ireland.
Social Responsibility Ireland Presidents Awards Ulster Bank achieved strong growth in commercial lending in both the Republic of Ireland and in Northern Ireland.
Notable transactions Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 44-49 7 3 05 10:40 am Page 44 Citizens Profit contribution 1,037 million 2003 857 million Total income up 31% to US$3,923 million Profit up 36% to US$1,900 million 44 Charter One.
In 2004 Citizens Financial Group acquired Charter One in a US$10.1 billion transaction, our largest to date in the US.
It extends our footprint in the US into the Midwest, giving us a presence in 13 of the US states and reaching around a third of the countrys population.
On completion, Citizens Financial Group, with US$131 billion in assets, became the 8th largest commercial banking organisation in the US by deposits.
Make it happen Citizens RBS Ann Review 44-49 7 3 05 10:40 am Page 45 45 As a result of the acquisition of Charter One Citizens is now the 8th largest and organic growth, Citizens achieved a significant commercial banking organisation increase in its distribution outlets.
Traditional branches increased from 605 to 1,117.
In-store in the US by deposits.
During branches grew from 261 New England and 2004 Citizens acquired Charter Mid-Atlantic locations to a total of 496 across Citizens.
One, which enabled it to extend Citizens now ranks 7th in the US among its franchise into six adjacent commercial banking organisations in the number states in the northeastern and of branches and 9th in ATMs.
As a result of Citizens supermarket banking programme this acquisition and strong organic almost doubled through the acquisition of Charter One.
Citizens is now the 3rd largest growth, Citizens increased its supermarket bank in the United States, with almost 500 in-store branches and 30 different partnerships income by 31% to US$3,923 million.
with retailers including Stop & Shop, Giant Eagle, Acme, Kroger, Tops and Wal-Mart.
Citizens has increased its income and profit in each of the last 12 years as a Including the impact of the acquisition of result of strong organic growth and a series Charter One, total year end loans to customers of successful acquisitions.
grew by 91%, while total year end customer deposits grew by 58%.
Excluding Charter One, total In 2004, Citizens increased its personal year end loans to customers grew by 17%, and total customer base by 2.0 million to 4.4 million.
year end customer deposits by 13%.
Excluding Charter One, personal customers increased by over 200,000.
Organic growth was The acquisition of Roxborough Manayunk achieved by Citizens in both its New England Bank strengthened Citizens position in Greater and Mid-Atlantic regions.
Citizens increased its business customer Citizens processed almost 1.1 million credit base by 174,000 to 400,000 during 2004.
Excluding applications and closed US$20 billion of new Charter One, business customers grew by 32,000 consumer loans during 2004.
Citizens is now in the New England and Mid-Atlantic regions.
a leading home equity lender and bank auto lender in the United States.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 44-49 7 3 05 10:40 am Page 46 Citizens continued Organic growth and acquisitions have taken Citizens to the top 10 rankings in deposits among US commercial banking organisations.
Citizens now ranks seventh in the US in the number of branches and ninth in ATMs.
Weve become a big player in Philadelphia following the successful acquisition of the Mellon regional banking franchise.
The Phillies new Major League Baseball stadium, under Citizens sponsorship, has been renamed Citizens Bank Park, boosting awareness of the brand in the Mid-Atlantic region.
Citizens Ballpark Bankers drive fans from the parking lots in golf carts and usher them to their seats in the stadium.
Make it happen Citizens RBS Ann Review 44-49 7 3 05 10:40 am Page 47 47 In addition to lending at the community Citizens new web-based cash management banking, middle market and large corporate levels, information reporting system, Money Manager GPS, Citizens supplements its Corporate Banking with features a full line of  options additional services and expertise sourced from including wire transfer, stop payments and positive RBS Corporate Banking and Financial Markets.
The Cash Management team Services include interest rate protection, foreign invests more than US$5 billion per night in overnight exchange, cash management, asset finance and sweep accounts and services more than 20,000 administration.
Charter One opened 48 new branches, Branch automation was enhanced during 31 of them at in-store locations, after its acquisition 2004 in every Citizens Bank branch in the New by Citizens.
England and Mid-Atlantic regions, enabling branch staff to serve customers faster and more efficiently.
The conversion of Charter One accounts to the Citizens platform is well under way.
The first Citizens is introducing internet-based group of deposit customers and nearly 475,000 paperless loan documentation, online pipeline indirect auto loans were converted to Citizens reporting and electronic processing to its systems in November 2004.
Consumer Finance operations, maintaining their top tier position in the United States.
In the autumn of 2004, Citizens initiated a Switch Support programme with an automated Citizens and the Commonwealth of concierge service designed to smooth the Pennsylvania announced a partnership offering transition of customers switching to Citizens US$100 million in loan funds over the next two years and Charter One from other banks.
at a low interest rate to companies that agree to create jobs in Pennsylvania.
The Citizens Job Bank During 2004, the number of Citizens online hopes to create 4,000 new jobs across the state.
banking customers grew by 58% to almost 724,000.
Including Charter One, Citizens Financial Group Following extraordinary flooding damage now has more than 1.4 million enrolled online in the wake of Hurricane Ivan, in September banking users.
2004, Citizens provided special lending offers to the community to help support flood relief Citizens new online banking platform efforts in western Pennsylvania.
It also distributed was launched in October.
It offers bill payments, emergency assistance funds to colleagues cheque imaging, email alerts and online statements, affected by the flooding.
and positions its internet banking proposition strongly against other large banks in the United States.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 44-49 7 3 05 10:40 am Page 48 Citizens continued Two new innovative community initiatives in the Mid-Atlantic and New England, the Citizens Jobs Bank and the Citizens Housing Bank, are helping create new jobs and affordable housing within the companys footprint.
48 New Branches Charter One has an extensive program of opening new branches to extend its market reach and provide additional customer convenience and choice.
Yankee Candle Affordable Housing Yankee Candle Company Allston Brighton Community is the leading designer, Development Corporation manufacturer and retailer of provides affordable housing premium scented candles in in Boston.
Citizens Corporate homebuyer education, and Banking was the lead agent in financing of affordable a US$200 million syndicated homes for families like Clara deal, providing additional Benites and her daughter, funding for future growth.
Make it happen Citizens RBS Ann Review 44-49 7 3 05 10:40 am Page 49 49 Citizens created The Citizens Housing Bank Citizens Bank Park, the new home of to provide up to US$200 million in low-interest loan Major League Baseballs Philadelphia Phillies, funds to non-profit housing developers to create opened in April 2004.
The 25-year naming rights more affordable housing units in New England.
and promotional agreement with the Phillies has strengthened Citizens community presence and Since it began in 2002, Citizens innovative enhanced the brand in and around Philadelphia.
Community Champions program has assisted 35 small, non-profit agencies in New England and Citizens was the No.
1 US Small Business five in Pennsylvania dedicated to significant Administration lender in the Mid-Atlantic and New social service issues like community health care, England regions and the No.
2 lender in the US disadvantaged youth services, homelessness, for the third consecutive year.
We made 5,695 hunger and affordable housing.
Citizens will extend SBA-backed loans totalling more than US$232 this initiative into the Midwest within the next year.
million, a 38% increase in loan volume over 2003.
More than 90 colleagues have benefited Awards from Citizens military leave policy, which was Citizens Bank New Hampshire extended above and beyond legal requirements, 2004 Business of the Year to bridge pay and benefits to cover the duration of Business NH Magazine military leave.
We also gave employees with serving family members time off with pay, and help with Citizens Bank Best Places to Work in travel expenses.
It was also named best in the large company category.
Our enhanced activity in the Charter One Pittsburgh Business Times geography during 2004 included multi-year community partnerships with the Indianapolis Colts, Citizens Bank first Corporate Citizen the National Football Leagues Indiana franchise, Award and the Cuse Cares community service program The Organization for a New Equality, Boston for student-athletes at Syracuse University in central New York.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Divisional review RBS Ann Review 50-53 7 3 05 10:42 am Page 50 Corporate Responsibility We improved our position to 2nd equal in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the banking sector, scoring 22% above the global average for the sector.
The RBS Group has given 1.8 million over three years to the Money Advice Trust to promote and improve free, confidential and impartial money advice.
The charity offers a structured approach to managing personal debt, so helping individuals gain control of their finances.
The increased funding from the RBS Group goes towards a number of projects, including the production of self-help materials for clients, improved training for advisers and the development of an 'e-learning resource'.
Make it happen Corporate Responsibility RBS Ann Review 50-53 7 3 05 10:42 am Page 51 51 Supporting international principles In 2004 we published our first The Equator Principles and UN Global Compact Corporate Responsibility Report.
In 2003 we adopted the Equator Principles of socially responsible investment and became a While the Annual Report quantifies signatory to the Ten Principles of the UN Global our financial success, the Compact.
Our work in 2004 has focused on implementing the Equator Principles within our Corporate Responsibility Report business and incorporating the UN Global Compact Principles into our policies and procedures.
provides a qualitative insight behind the figures into the policies Benchmarking The Group participates in a number of corporate and practices which ensure responsibility indexes and surveys: that our financial returns are FTSE4Good sustainable in the long term.
The Group continues to meet the socially responsible investment criteria required for The growth of the RBS Group depends as inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index.
much on our understanding and fulfilment of our responsibilities as on our financial skills.
Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes The Group has been selected as a component for The first responsibility of any company to society is both the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index to be successful.
Success requires us to balance DJSI World and Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability the differing interests of our stakeholders.
provide the high quality products and services our customers want, at a price they can afford.
Our The Group ranked 2nd equal in the Dow Jones shareholders demand and deserve a healthy return Sustainability World Index for the banking sector, on the capital they entrust to us, which we achieve bringing our overall score to 64%, an increase of through growth and profit.
Our score was 22% above the global average stable, safe and fair employment.
We must work for the sector.
productively with government and regulators.
We attach importance to managing our environmental Business in the Community impact and making a genuine contribution to the We participated in the Business in the Community communities in which we operate.
CR Index for the first time, achieving 91.5% and ranking 27th within the top 100.
Successful companies must not only conduct their business in a manner that goes beyond legal Business in the Environment compliance.
They must satisfy the increasing demand The most recent annual Business in the to define, implement and report the non-financial Environment BiE FTSE 350 Index of Corporate elements of their business practice.
We respect Environmental Engagement survey showed a the need to assure our key stakeholders that an further 1% improvement on the previous year.
organisation of the scale and complexity of the RBS Group is managed with integrity and consistency.
Our first Corporate Responsibility Report is available from http: www.
com crreports Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Corporate Responsibility RBS Ann Review 50-53 7 3 05 10:42 am Page 52 Corporate Responsibility continued The growth of the RBS Group depends as much on our understanding and fulfilment of our responsibilities as on our financial skills.
52 1m Donation The RBS Group donated 1 million at Christmas to the top ten charities selected by our employees.
Community Cashback Awards This scheme supports employees who give their time and skills to help local community projects.
In 2004, 5,518 employees participated, generating contributions of 1.9 million across the UK.
Stocksbridge Double Matching Training & Enterprise Give As You Earn Partnership STEP 2,800 charities received in South Yorkshire, 6.4 million through our supported by the RBS unique, award winning Group, assists people double matching Give As in finding new forms of You Earn scheme.
employment outside the declining steel industry.
Make it happen Corporate Responsibility RBS Ann Review 50-53 7 3 05 10:42 am Page 53 53 Our 2004 performance potential.
young people and communities realise their Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Corporate Responsibility RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 54 54 Directors report and summary financial statement RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 55 Directors report and summary financial statement Contents 55 56 Board of directors and secretary 58 Remuneration report 62 Financial results 66 Shareholder information 68 Important addresses Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Governance and financial review RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 56 Board of directors and secretary Sir George Mathewson Sir Fred Goodwin Sir Angus Grossart Lord Vallance of Tummel 56 Lawrence Fish Fred Watt Gordon Pell Archie Hunter Joe MacHale Charles Bud Koch Iain Robertson Eileen Mackay Jim Currie Bob Scott Colin Buchan Sir Steve Robson Peter Sutherland Miller McLean, Secretary Board of directors and secretary RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 57 Chairman trustee of the National Heritage Far East.
He is the 57 in January 1992 and in March C Trust Plc, Merrill Lynch Gold is currently a non-executive senior independent director.
He is a trustee of the FCIBS Tracker Trust plc, Convenor of Sir Steve Robson age 61 Industry and Parliament Trust, Sir Angus Grossart age 67 C Court at the University of A a non-executive chairman of CBE, DBA, LLD, FRSE, DL, Group Finance Director Strathclyde and a governor Appointed to the Board in July The Whitehall and Industry FCIBS, D. Litt Appointed to the Board in of the Beatson Cancer 2001, Sir Steve Robson is a Group and a director of The C September 2000, Fred Watt Research Institute.
He is a career in South Africa and the Carroll University and a trustee Finance and Regulation Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Governance and financial review RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 58 Remuneration report Remuneration policy The executive remuneration policy is kept under review by the Short-term annual incentives Remuneration Committee and is set out below.
There have These typically focus from year to year on the delivery of a been no material changes to the policy which was approved combination of appropriate Group and individual financial and by shareholders at the companys annual general meeting in operational targets approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The objective of the executive remuneration policy is to Individual UK-based executive directors normally have a provide, in the context of the companys business strategy, maximum annual bonus potential of one times salary remuneration in form and amount which will attract, motivate one and a half times in the case of the Group Chief and retain high calibre executives.
In order to achieve this Executive, although for exceptional performance, as measured objective, the policy is framed around the following core by the achievement of significant objectives, bonuses up to 58 principles: two times salary may be awarded.
Total rewards will be set at levels that are competitive within Long-term incentives the relevant market, taking each executive directors The company provides long-term incentives in the form of remuneration package as a whole.
share options and share or share equivalent awards.
Their Total potential rewards will be earned through achievement objective is to encourage the creation of value over the longof demanding performance targets based on measures term and to align the rewards of the executive directors with consistent with shareholder interests over the short, medium the returns to shareholders.
Directors are encouraged to hold and longer-term.
shares in the company and a culture of voluntary shareholding Remuneration arrangements will strike an appropriate has been fostered, which has resulted in a number of executive balance between fixed and performance related rewards.
directors building up substantial shareholdings over time.
Medium-term performance plan Incentive plans and performance metrics will be structured The medium-term performance plan was approved by to be robust through the business cycle.
Each executive director is eligible Remuneration arrangements will be designed to support the for an annual award under the plan in the form of share or companys business strategy, to promote appropriate share equivalent awards.
Whilst the rules of the plan allow teamwork and to conform to best practice standards.
grants of awards of up to one and a half times earnings, the Remuneration Committee has adopted a policy of granting The non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually by the awards based on a multiple of salary.
Normally awards are Board, on the recommendation of the Chairman.
Nonmade at one times salary with one and a half times salary executive directors do not participate in any incentive or being granted in the case of the Group Chief Executive.
changes will be made to this policy without prior consultation with shareholders.
The plan is highly geared to the companys Components of executive remuneration relative performance.
All awards under the plan are subject to UK based directors three year performance targets, based on a combination of Salary earnings per share and total shareholder return.
Salaries are reviewed annually as part of total remuneration, having regard to remuneration packages received by Options executives of comparable companies.
The Remuneration The executive share option scheme was approved by Committee uses a range of survey data from remuneration shareholders in January 1999.
Each executive director is consultants and reaches individual salary decisions taking eligible for the annual grant of an option, typically of one and account of the remuneration environment and the performance a quarter times salary with an upper maximum in appropriate and responsibilities of the individual director.
circumstances of two and a half times salary, over shares at the market value at date of grant.
Under the terms of his Benefits appointment, the Chairman is also eligible to participate in the UK-based executive directors are eligible to participate in The executive share option scheme.
No payment is made by the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pension Fund the RBS Fund.
executive on the grant of an option award.
The RBS Fund is a non-contributory defined benefit fund which provides pensions and other benefits within Inland Revenue All executive share options are subject to a performance limits.
target, which is currently that the options are exercisable only if, over a three year period, the growth in the companys EPS Executive directors are eligible to receive a choice of various has exceeded the growth in the RPI plus nine per cent.
This employee benefits or a cash equivalent, on a similar basis to EPS performance target, which is consistent with market other employees.
In addition, like other employees, executive practice, measures underlying financial performance and directors are also eligible to participate in Sharesave, Buy As represents a long-term test of performance.
For awards made You Earn and the Group profit sharing scheme, which currently in 2004 onwards, there is no re-testing of the performance pays up to 10 per cent of salaries, depending on the Groups condition.
These schemes are not subject to performance awards have vested without re-testing.
Remuneration report RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 59 US based director Lawrence Fish Board, for exceptional performance as measured by the Lawrence Fishs total remuneration package was reviewed achievement of significant objectives.
in 2004 by the Remuneration Committee as a result of the acquisition of Charter One and his changing RBS responsibilities Long term incentives will consist of the following components: in North America.
In the review, the Remuneration Committee The two grants made under the Citizens Phantom 2000 Plan vested and will vest on 1 January 2005 and 1 January 2006, confirmed its overall policy in relation to his package is to respectively.
The value of units at the time of vesting is ensure competitiveness with the market levels of total performance-linked and is based on the cumulative remuneration for chairmen and executives of US banks of economic profit generated by Citizens, the trend in similar size and complexity.
economic profit and on the external market trends in the US banking sector using price earnings ratios of comparator US As a result of that review, proposals will be submitted at the 59 banks.
This measure was chosen to establish a clear link annual general meeting to introduce a cash long term incentive between potential incentive and the performance of Citizens.
plan, which will replace the Citizens Phantom 2000 Plan in which No other grants will be made under this plan.
Subject to agreement to these A grant under the RBS medium-term performance plan proposals, the total remuneration policy for him will be as follows: within the levels, and on the same terms, available to UK based executives.
listed companies operating within the corporate governance A grant under the new Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan.
In light of this policy, and having Performance will be measured on a combination of Growth reviewed the relevant market data, Mr Fishs base salary was in Profit before Tax and Relative Return on Equity based on a increased to US$1.5 million with effect from 1 October 2004. comparison of Citizens with comparator US banks.
The targets for this plan will be set on an annual basis over the Benefits Mr Fish accrues pension benefits under a number of three year term of the grant.
In addition he is entitled to receive other benefits on a similar basis to other Citizens employees.
In the event that the proposed new Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan is not approved, Mr Fish will participate in Short term performance rewards will take the form of an existing approved short and long term cash plans already annual incentive plan which rewards the achievement of operating in Citizens The existing approved Citizens Long Term Group, business unit and individual financial and non-financial Incentive Plan is a cash compensation plan designed to targets.
The normal maximum annual bonus potential will be reward participants for achieving long-term financial results.
two times salary, although additional amounts to a maximum of A separate three year cycle commences each year.
The two times salary may be awarded, at the discretion of the maximum award payable to Mr Fish annually is 105 percent of his average salary over the previous three year period.
Performance graph Total shareholder return The performance graph illustrates the performance of the company over the past five years in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index.
Service contracts contracts and must retire by rotation and seek re-election by The companys policy in relation to the duration of contracts shareholders every three years.
with directors is that executive directors contracts generally continue until termination by either party, subject to the All new service contracts for executive directors will be subject required notice, or until retirement date.
The notice period to approval by the Remuneration Committee.
It will be the norm under the service contracts of executive directors will not to include in those contracts standard clauses covering the normally exceed 12 months.
If it is necessary to provide a performance review process, the companys normal longer notice period when recruiting an individual, the contract disciplinary procedure, and terms for dismissal in the event of will revert to 12 months in due course, as agreed on a case by failure to perform or in situations involving actions in breach of case basis.
Non-executive directors do not have service the Groups policies.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Governance and financial review RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 60 Remuneration report continued Throughout the period, the Group has applied the Principles and Provisions relating to directors remuneration as set out in the Combined Code.
The full Remuneration Report is contained in the companys 2004 Report and Accounts.
The remuneration of each director for the year ended 31 December 2004 is summarised in the tables below.
Directors remuneration Salary Performance 2004 2003 fees bonus Benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Sir George Mathewson 542 39 5581 538 60 Executive directors Sir Fred Goodwin 990 1,500 32 2,522 1,916 Mr Fish 637 1,638 30 2,305 1,859 Mr McLuskie retired 23 August 2004 341 1 342 1,048 Mr Pell 670 721 12 1,403 1,307 Mr Watt 605 660 3 1,268 1,110 includes 10% profit sharing Basic salary is the only component of the remuneration package which is pensionable.
Board committee 2004 2003 Board fees fees Total Total Non-executive directors 000 000 000 000 Vice-chairmen Lord Vallance of Tummel 100 100 100 Sir Angus Grossart 100 100 100 Emilio Botin resigned 12 November 2004 46 46 44 Mr Buchan 50 50 100 56 Dr Currie 50 10 60 54 Mr Hunter appointed 1 September 2004 17 5 22 Mr Inciarte resigned 12 November 2004 46 46 44 Mr Koch appointed 29 September 2004 12 12 Mr MacHale appointed 1 September 2004 17 5 22 Miss Mackay 50 25 75 64 Mr Robertson 100 100 217 Sir Steve Robson 50 15 65 54 Mr Scott 50 23 73 67 Mr Sutherland 50 3 53 44 includes 167,000 in respect of Mr Robertsons service as an executive director.
In addition to his role as a non-executive director, Mr Koch has an agreement with Citizens Financial Group, Inc. to provide consulting services for a period of three years following the acquisition by Citizens of Charter One Financial, Inc. For these services Mr Koch receives US$402,500 per annum.
Phantom 2000 Plan Awards granted during year End of the period for Phantom 2000 units at Units awarded Market price qualifying conditions Benefits received Phantom 2000 units at 1 January 2004 during year on award to be fulfilled during the year 31 December 2004 Mr Fish 1,000,000 01.01.04 1,000,000 1,000,000 01.01.05 1,000,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 No variation was made to any of the terms of the plan during the year.
Citizens Long Term Incentive Plan Benefits received Interests at 1 January 2004 Awards granted during year during the year Interests at 31 December 2004 Mr Fish LTIP awards for the LTIP award for the LTIP award for the LTIP awards for the 3 year periods: 3 year period: 3 year period: 3 year periods: 01.01.01 31.12.03 01.01.04 31.12.06 01.01.01 31.12.03 01.01.02 31.12.04 01.01.02 31.12.04 was US$1,020,831 01.01.03 31.12.05 01.01.03 31.12.05 01.01.04 31.12.06 Under the cash LTIP, target payment is 60% of average salary over the three year period, maximum payment is 105% of average salary.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Governance and financial review RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 62 Financial results Summary financial statement Important note Change in accounting policy This summary financial statement is a summary of information Financial Reporting Standard 17 'Retirement Benefits' FRS 17 in the 2004 Report and Accounts.
It does not contain sufficient supersedes Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 information to allow for a full understanding of the results of 'Pension costs' SSAP24 and the Urgent Issues Task Force the Group and the state of affairs of the company or of the Abstract 6 'Accounting for post-retirement benefits other than Group.
For further information, the 2004 Report and Accounts, pensions'.
All the disclosure requirements of FRS 17 were the auditors report on those accounts and the report of the adopted by the Group in its 2002 financial statements.
The directors should be consulted.
A copy of the 2004 Report and Group has implemented the recognition and measurement 62 Accounts may be obtained, free of charge, from the provisions of FRS 17 in 2004 in the light of the introduction of companys registrar at the address shown on page 68.
All International Financial Reporting Standards from 1 January shareholders receive the Annual Review and Summary 2005: the measurement principles in the equivalent Financial Statement.
Shareholders who also wish to receive the international accounting standard IAS 19 'Employee Benefits' Report and Accounts should complete if they have not done are similar to those in FRS 17.
The prior year has been restated.
so previously the request card which accompanies this document and return it to the companys registrar.
The profit and loss account set out below shows goodwill amortisation and integration costs separately.
In the statutory profit and loss account on page 64, these items are included in operating expenses.
Summary consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 m m Net interest income 9,208 8,301 Non-interest income excluding general insurance 8,602 7,857 General insurance net premium income 4,944 3,123 Non-interest income 13,546 10,980 Total income 22,754 19,281 Operating expenses 9,662 8,524 Profit before other operating charges 13,092 10,757 General insurance net claims 3,480 2,195 Operating profit before provisions 9,612 8,562 Provisions 1,511 1,494 Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and integration costs 8,101 7,068 Goodwill amortisation 915 763 Integration costs 269 229 Profit before tax 6,917 6,076 Tax 2,155 1,888 Profit after tax 4,762 4,188 Minority interests including non-equity 250 210 Preference dividends 256 261 4,256 3,717 Additional Value Shares dividend 1,463 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,256 2,254 Ordinary dividends 1,837 1,490 Retained profit 2,419 764 Basic earnings per ordinary share 138.0p 76.9p Adjusted earnings per ordinary share 172.5p 157.2p restated see above.
Integration costs comprise expenditure incurred in respect of cost reduction and revenue enhancement targets set in connection with the acquisition of NatWest and the cost of integrating the various acquisitions made by the Group in 2004.
Financial results RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 63 Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, enhanced governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its standards of corporate governance and business and financial activities.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004, the disclosure apply to companies with securities registered in the company has complied in all material respects with the US.
The Group complies with all sections of the Sarbanesprovisions set out in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Oxley Act of 2002 currently applicable.
Governance and the Smith Guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
A full explanation of how these principles are applied is contained in the corporate governance and remuneration 63 reports in the Group's 2004 Report and Accounts.
Summary directors report Activities and business review Report of the auditors A review of the activities and business of the Group for the The auditors report on the full accounts for the year ended 31 year ended 31 December 2004, of recent events and of likely December 2004 was unqualified and did not include a future developments is contained on pages 4 to 54. statement under sections 237 2 inadequate accounting records or returns or accounts not agreeing with records and Directors returns or 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and Photographs and biographical details of the directors are explanations of the Companies Act 1985. shown on pages 56 and 57.
Independent auditors statement to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc We have examined the summary financial statement which Basis of opinion comprises the summary directors report, the summary We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet and The auditors statement on the summary financial statement the remuneration report.
issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Opinion body, in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the state to the companys members those matters we are remuneration report of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other for the year ended 31 December 2004 and complies with the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors and Summary Financial Statement in accordance with United Edinburgh Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion 23 February 2005 on the consistency of the summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Governance and financial review RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 64 Summary consolidated profit and loss account statutory basis for the year ended 31 December 2004 2004 2003 m m Net interest income 9,208 8,301 Non-interest income excluding general insurance 8,602 7,857 General insurance net premium income 4,944 3,123 Non-interest income 13,546 10,980 Total income 22,754 19,281 Administrative expenses 8,824 7,834 Depreciation and amortisation tangible fixed assets 1,107 919 64 goodwill 915 763 Operating expenses 10,846 9,516 Profit before other operating charges 11,908 9,765 General insurance net claims 3,480 2,195 Operating profit before provisions 8,428 7,570 Provisions 1,511 1,494 Profit on ordinary activities before tax 6,917 6,076 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 2,155 1,888 Profit on ordinary activities after tax 4,762 4,188 Minority interests including non-equity 250 210 Profit after minority interests 4,512 3,978 Preference dividends 256 261 4,256 3,717 Additional Value Shares dividend 1,463 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 4,256 2,254 Ordinary dividends 1,837 1,490 Retained profit 2,419 764 Earnings per 25p ordinary share 138.0p 76.9p Additional Value Shares dividend 49.9p 138.0p 126.8p Goodwill amortisation 28.7p 25.0p Integration costs 5.8p 5.4p Adjusted earnings per 25p ordinary share 172.5p 157.2p Diluted earnings per 25p ordinary share 136.9p 76.3p restated see page 62.
Integration costs included in operating expenses comprise: 2004 2003 m m Administrative expenses 267 229 Depreciation 2 269 229 Directors remuneration 2004 2003 000 000 Non-executive directors emoluments 874 759 Chairman and executive directors emoluments 8,421 7,945 Chairman and Executive directors contributions and allowances in respect of defined contribution pension schemes 178 164 9,473 8,868 amounts receivable under long-term incentive plans 2,189 6,056 Chairman and Executive directors gains on exercise of share options 5 2 11,667 14,926 Retirement benefits are accruing to five directors 2003 six under defined benefit schemes, two 2003 two of whom also accrued benefits under defined contribution schemes.
The comparative figures for directors remuneration in 2003 include remuneration of directors who did not serve during the year ended 31 December 2004.
Summary consolidated profit and loss account statutory basis RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 65 Summary consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2004 2004 2003 m m Assets Cash and balances at central banks 4,293 3,822 Items in the course of collection from other banks 2,629 2,501 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 6,110 4,846 Loans and advances to banks 58,260 51,891 Loans and advances to customers 345,469 252,531 Debt securities 91,211 79,949 Equity shares 2,960 2,300 65 Intangible fixed assets 17,576 13,131 Tangible fixed assets 16,294 13,927 Other assets, prepayments and accrued income 34,865 25,973 579,667 450,871 Long-term assurance assets attributable to policyholders 3,800 3,557 Total assets 583,467 454,428 Liabilities Deposits by banks 99,081 67,323 Items in the course of transmission to other banks 802 958 Customer accounts 285,062 236,963 Debt securities in issue 58,960 41,016 Other liabilities, accruals and deferred income and provisions 79,702 58,802 Subordinated liabilities including convertible debt 20,366 16,998 Minority interests including non-equity 3,829 2,713 Called up share capital 822 769 Share premium account 12,964 8,175 Merger reserve 10,307 10,881 Other reserves 457 419 Revaluation reserve 92 7 Profit and loss account 7,223 5,847 Shareholders funds equity 27,345 23,175 non-equity 4,520 2,923 579,667 450,871 Long-term assurance liabilities to policyholders 3,800 3,557 Total liabilities 583,467 454,428 Memorandum items Contingent liabilities and commitments 196,870 154,557 At 31 December 2004, provisions for bad and doubtful debts amounted to 4,228 million 2003 3,929 million.
The summary financial statement on pages 62 to 65 was approved by the Board of directors on 23 February 2005.
Sir George Mathewson Sir Fred Goodwin Fred Watt Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Governance and financial review RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 66 Shareholder information Analyses of ordinary shareholders at 31 December 2004 % shareholdings millions of total Individuals 170,022 237.9 7.5 Banks and nominee companies 23,731 2,762.7 87.1 Investment trusts 145 0.8 Insurance companies 339 11.6 0.4 Other companies 2,200 144.7 4.5 66 Pension trusts 37 9.6 0.3 Other corporate bodies 104 5.3 0.2 196,578 3,172.6 100.0 Range of shareholdings: 10,000,0011,000 129,864 45.2 1.4 10,001,00110,000 61,136 166.0 5.2 10,010,001100,000 4,161 105.6 3.4 11,100,0011,000,000 1,041 338.9 10.7 11,000,00110,000,000 326 926.7 29.2 10,000,001 and over 50 1,590.2 50.1 196,578 3,172.6 100.0 Financial calendar Annual general meeting 20 April 2005 at 2.00 pm, Edinburgh International Conference Centre, The Exchange, Morrison Street, Edinburgh Interim results 4 August 2005 Dividends Payment dates: Ordinary shares 2004 Final 3 June 2005 Ordinary shares 2005 Interim October 2005 Cumulative preference shares 31 May and 30 December 2005 Non-cumulative dollar preference shares 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 30 December 2005 Ex-dividend dates: Ordinary shares 2004 Final 9 March 2005 Cumulative preference shares 4 May 2005 Record dates: Ordinary shares 2004 Final 11 March 2005 Cumulative preference shares 6 May 2005 If the necessary approvals are obtained from shareholders at the annual general meeting on 20 April 2005, as an alternative to cash, a scrip dividend election will be offered and shareholders will receive details of this by letter after that date.
Shareholder information RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 67 Corporate Responsibility Report Capital gains tax If you wish to obtain a copy please contact: For shareholders who held RBS ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 the market value of one ordinary share held was 103p.
Corporate Responsibility After adjusting for the 1 March 1985 rights issue, the 1 The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc September 1989 capitalisation issue and the bonus issue of 42 St Andrew Square Additional Value Shares on 12 July 2000, the adjusted 31 March Edinburgh EH2 2YE 1982 base value of one ordinary share held currently is 46.1p.
It is also available on our website at www.
com crreports For shareholders who held NatWest ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 the market value of one ordinary share held was 85.16p 67 Investor Relations for shareholders who accepted the basic terms of the RBS Shareholders can access updated information on RBS via offer.
This takes account of the August 1984 and June 1986 www.
com ir rights issues and the June 1989 bonus issue of NatWest ordinary shares as well as the subsequent issue of Additional Shareholder enquiries Value Shares.
Shareholdings in the company may be checked by visiting our website www.
You will need the When disposing of shares, shareholders are also entitled to shareholder reference number printed on your share certificate indexation allowance to April 1998 only in the case of individuals or tax voucher to gain access to this information.
and non-corporate holders, which is calculated on the 31 March 1982 value, on the cost of subsequent purchases from Braille and audio Annual Review and the date of purchase and on the subscription for rights from Summary Financial Statement the date of that payment.
Further adjustments must be made Shareholders requiring a Braille or audio version of the Annual where a shareholder has chosen to receive shares instead of Review and Summary Financial Statement should contact the cash for dividends.
Individuals and non-corporate shareholders Registrar on 0870 702 0135. may also be entitled to some taper relief to reduce the amount of any chargeable gain on disposal of shares.
ShareGift The company is aware that shareholders who hold a small The information set out above is intended as a general guide number of shares may be retaining these shares because only and is based on current United Kingdom legislation and dealing costs make it uneconomical to dispose of them.
Inland Revenue practice as at this date.
This information ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme is a free service deals only with the position of individual shareholders who operated by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity are resident in the United Kingdom for tax purposes, who are 1052686 to enable shareholders to donate unwanted shares the beneficial owners of their shares and who hold their to charity.
It does not deal with the position of shareholders other than individual shareholders, Should you wish to donate your shares to charity in this way shareholders who are resident outside the United Kingdom you should contact ShareGift for further information: for tax purposes or certain types of shareholders, such as dealers in securities.
ShareGift, The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN Tel: 020 7337 0501 www.
org Donating your shares in this way will not give rise to either a gain or a loss for UK capital gains tax purposes and you may be able to reclaim UK income tax on gifted shares.
Further information can be obtained from the UK Inland Revenue or your local tax office.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Governance and financial review RBS Ann Review 54-68 7 3 05 10:43 am Page 68 Important addresses Shareholder enquiries Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Telephone: 0870 702 0135 Facsimile: 0870 703 6009 68 Group Secretariat The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 42 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YE Telephone: 0131 523 0944 Facsimile: 0131 557 6140 Registered office 36 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH2 2YB Telephone: 0131 556 8555 Registered in Scotland No.
