32 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Governance Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2005 Annual General Meeting Election of Director appointed since the last Annual of Schroders plc will be held at 31 Gresham Street, London General Meeting EC2V 7QA on Tuesday 19th April 2005 at 12 noon to transact the following business: 4.
That Andrew Beeson, who retires under Article 87, be elected as a Director of the Company Resolutions Under Article 87 of the Companys Articles of Association any To consider and, if thought fit, to pass resolutions numbered 1 to Director appointed to office by the Board may only hold office 12 as Ordinary Resolutions requiring a majority of more than until the next Annual General Meeting, when shareholders have 50 per cent.
and resolution 13 as a Special Resolution requiring the opportunity to vote on his election.
Accordingly, Andrew a majority of not less than 75 per cent.. Beeson, who was appointed on 1st October 2004, is seeking election.
A profile of Andrew Beeson is contained on page 28.
Report & Accounts The Board supports the election of Andrew Beeson, who will 1.
That the Report of the Directors and the Accounts of the provide additional independent non-executive representation on Company for the year ended 31st December 2004 be the Board, the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee received and adopted and the Nominations Committee.
For each financial year the Directors are required to present the Re-election of Directors having attained the age of Report of the Directors and the Accounts of the Company for seventy Resolutions 5 and 6 adoption by shareholders.
Accordingly, the Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st December 2004 are now presented and 5.
That George Mallinckrodt, who retires under Article 89, be proposed for adoption.
re-elected as a Director of the Company Final dividend 6.
That Bruno Schroder, who retires under Article 89, be re-elected as a Director of the Company 2.
That a final dividend of 13.5 pence per share on the Under Articles 84 and 89 of the Companys Articles of ordinary shares and on the non-voting ordinary shares as Association Directors must retire and offer themselves for rerecommended by the Directors be declared payable on election annually once they have attained the age of seventy.
21st April 2005 to shareholders on the register on This applies to George Mallinckrodt and Bruno Schroder and 29th March 2005 they offer themselves for re-election.
Profiles of George The payment of the final dividend of 13.5p per share in respect Mallinckrodt and Bruno Schroder are contained on page 29. of the year ended 31st December 2004, which is recommended The Board believes that it is appropriate for George Mallinckrodt by the Board, requires the approval of shareholders in to be re-elected in view of his many years international business general meeting.
The Board also believes that it is appropriate for Bruno Schroder, as the representative of our principal Remuneration report shareholder group, to be re-elected.
That the Remuneration report for the year ended 31st December 2004 be approved Under section 234B of the Companies Act 1985 the Directors must prepare an annual report detailing the remuneration of the Directors and the Companys remuneration policy.
Section 241A requires that a resolution be put to shareholders each year for their approval of that report.
The Remuneration report can be found on pages 11 to 21.
This notice therefore contains a resolution to approve the Remuneration report for the year to 31st December 2004.
The result of this resolution is advisory only.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 33 Re-election of Directors not later than the third Authority to purchase own shares Annual General Meeting following last election or re-election Resolutions 7 to 10 13.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within 7.
That Jonathan Asquith, who retires under Article 88, be the meaning of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 as re-elected as a Director of the Company amended of non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each Shares, subject to the following conditions: 8.
That Michael Dobson, who retires under Article 88, be a such authority be limited to a maximum number of re-elected as a Director of the Company 14,750,000 Shares: b the maximum price at which Shares may be purchased 9.
That Sir Peter Job, who retires under Article 88, be is 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market re-elected as a Director of the Company quotations for the Shares as derived from the London 10.
That Massimo Tosato, who retires under Article 88, be Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business re-elected as a Director of the Company days preceding the date of purchase or, in the case of a tender or partial offer, the date the tender or partial offer Under Article 88 of the Companys Articles of Association Directors is made, whichever is the greater, and the minimum price must retire and offer themselves for re-election not later than the at which Shares may be purchased is 1 per share, in third Annual General Meeting following his or her election or last both cases exclusive of expenses: and re-election to the Board.
Jonathan Asquith, Michael Dobson, Sir c such authority shall, unless renewed prior to such time, Peter Job and Massimo Tosato are all retiring from office under expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General this Article and offer themselves for re-election.
Profiles of each Meeting of the Company save that the Company may Director are contained on pages 27 to 29. before such expiry enter into a contract to purchase Shares under which such purchase will or may be The Chairman confirms that following the completion of the Board completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiration evaluation process in 2004, the election and re-election of the of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares Directors named in resolutions 4 to 10 is recommended.
in pursuance of any such contract Auditors Resolutions 11 and 12 If passed, this resolution would renew the Companys authority to make purchases of its non-voting ordinary shares.
That  LLP be and are hereby reThis authority relates to 14,750,000 shares, representing appointed as Auditors of the Company to hold office from the approximately 5 per cent.
of the total issued share capital and conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next some 21 per cent.
of the issued non-voting ordinary share general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company capital.
The authority sets limits on the price which may be paid in accordance with section 241 of the Companies Act 1985 for any shares and is limited to market purchases on the London Stock Exchange or so far as required under the Listing Rules 12.
That the Directors be authorised to fix the remuneration of by tender or partial offer to all shareholders.
 LLP, as Auditors of the Company The Companys auditors must offer themselves for re-appointment The previous authority granted at the Annual General Meeting on at each Annual General Meeting at which accounts are 22nd April 2004 was used during the year to repurchase 90,535 presented.
Accordingly, the Board, on the recommendation of the non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each at a total cost of Audit Committee, proposes the re-appointment of 572,181 which were subsequently cancelled.
The Directors  LLP as the Companys auditors.
have no plans to use this authority generally if it is renewed.
Resolution 12 authorises the Directors to agree the remuneration However, they do intend that, if the authority is given, the of  LLP for their services as auditors.
Company would exercise its right to make purchases with a view to maintaining over the medium term the ratio of ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares, taking into account the issue of non-voting ordinary shares under the Companys share or share option plans.
If the authority is given, purchases would only be made where the Directors believed that they were in the best interests of the Company, taking into account other available investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the Group.
Purchases would only be made where earnings per share would be increased except possibly in respect of purchases made in relation to the issue of non-voting ordinary shares under the Companys share or share option plans.
34 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Governance Notice of Annual General Meeting Notes If the Company were to purchase its own non-voting ordinary An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint shares pursuant to the authority sought in this resolution, the one or more proxies to attend and insofar as permitted by the Companys Articles of Directors would consider whether to cancel those shares or hold Association to vote instead of him.
them as treasury shares, in the latter case only to be used for the A proxy need not be a member.
A form of proxy is enclosed for ordinary shareholders which should be completed and returned to the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB purposes of the Companys share or share option plans.
Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6AZ not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
Completion of the proxy will not preclude an ordinary shareholder from attending and voting in person.
A proxy form is enclosed to enable shareholders unable to Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the attend the meeting to cast their votes by post at the Annual internet can do so at www.
co. uk where full instructions are given.
personal reference number, card ID and account number printed on the proxy form will be required.
Alternatively shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareview, service can appoint their proxy by logging on to their portfolio at By Order of the Board www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Meetings.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or Graham Staples if received after 12 noon on 17th April 2005.
Any communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
Company Secretary Only those ordinary shareholders on the register of members as at 6 p. m. on 17th April 2005 will be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares Registered office: registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 6 p. m. on 17th April 2005 will be disregarded in determining the rights of any 31 Gresham Street person to attend or vote at the meeting.
London EC2V 7QA The Register of Directors interests kept in accordance with section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 is available for inspection at the Companys registered office 17th March 2005 during normal business hours on weekdays and will be available for inspection at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Profiles of each of the Directors offering themselves for election or re-election are on page 27 to 29 of this report.
The profiles include, where appropriate, membership of Board Committees.
CREST members who wish to appoint and or instruct a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
Users of CREST, including Personal Members, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Instructions and information on voting can be found in the CREST Manual.
The message must be transmitted and received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by 12 noon on the 17th April 2005.
Submission timings and system limitations can be found in the CREST Manual.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member, CREST sponsor or voting service provider to ensure the message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any specified time and therefore they are referred to the CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
