36 Schroders Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Governance Directors responsibility statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with The Directors, having prepared the financial statements, have the Report of the independent auditors, is made with a view to requested the auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the whatever inspections they consider appropriate for the purpose of Directors and auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Statement from the Chairman and the Chief Executive on Accounts.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the pages 2 to 3 and the Operating and financial review on pages 4 to Group keeps proper accounting records.
They are required by 7 contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the company law to prepare financial statements which give a true financial condition, results of, operations and businesses of the and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group.
These statements and forecasts involve risk and Group at the end of the financial year and of the results for the uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on year.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to circumstances that will occur in the future.
There are a number of safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect factors that could cause actual results or developments to differ fraud and other irregularities.
materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardlooking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in this report should be The Directors remain satisfied that the Group has adequate construed as a profit forecast.
resources to continue in business and accordingly that financial statements should be drawn up on a going concern basis.
Further, appropriate accounting policies consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been used in the preparation of these financial statements and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
These policies and standards, for which the Directors accept responsibility, have been discussed with the auditors.
