NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the new offices of Baillie Gifford & Co, Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh EH1 3AN, on Thursday, 1 July 2004 at 4.00 pm.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 027 0133.
Baillie Gifford may record your call.
Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-fifth meaning of section 163 3 of the Act By order of the Board Annual General Meeting of Scottish of ordinary shares of 25p each in the Mortgage Investment Trust PLC will be held capital of the Company Shares, Baillie Gifford & Co within the Registered Office of the Company, provided that: Managers and Secretaries Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, Edinburgh 28 May 2004 a the maximum aggregate number EH1 3AN, on Thursday, 1 July 2004, at of Shares hereby authorised to be 4.00 pm for the following purposes: Notes purchased shall be 14.99% of the 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at the issued ordinary share capital on meeting is entitled to appoint one or more Ordinary Business the date on which this resolution is proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote on 1.
To approve the Accounts of the passed: his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a Company for the year to 31 March member of the Company.
A Form of Proxy b the minimum price which may be 2004 with the Reports of the Directors for the use of members is enclosed.
paid for a Share shall be 25p: and of the Auditors thereon.
2 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated c the maximum price exclusive of 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Securities Regulations 2001, the Company expenses which may be paid for a Report.
specifies that only those shareholders entered Share shall be an amount equal to on the Register of Members of the Company as 3.
105% of the average of the middle at 6.00 pm on 29 June 2004 or, in the event market quotations as derived from 4.
To elect Mr MM Gray as a Director.
that the meeting is adjourned, on the Register the Daily Official List of the London of Members 48 hours before the time of any 5.
To elect Lord Strathclyde as a Director.
adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend Stock Exchange for the Shares for 6.
To re-elect Mr WG McQueen as a or vote at the meeting in respect of the number the 5 business days immediately Director.
of ordinary shares registered in their name at preceding the date of purchase: and that time.
Changes to the entries on the Register 7.
To re-elect Mr GA Ball as a Director.
d unless previously varied, revoked or of Members after 6.00 pm on 29 June 2004 8.
To reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors.
or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, renewed by the Company in general in the Register of Members 48 hours before meeting, the authority hereby 9.
To authorise the Directors to determine the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be conferred shall expire at the the remuneration of the Auditors.
disregarded in determining the rights of conclusion of the Annual General any person to attend or vote at the meeting, To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the Meeting of the Company to be held notwithstanding any provisions in any following resolution as a Special Resolution: in 2005 or 31 December 2005, enactment, the articles of association of the 10.
That, in substitution for any existing whichever is the earlier, save that Company or other instrument to the contrary.
authority under section 166 of the the Company may, prior to such 3 Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Companies Act 1985 the Act, but expiry, enter into a contract to Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings without prejudice to the exercise of purchase Shares under such authority Plan or the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust any such authority prior to the date which will or might be completed ISA PEP who wish to vote and or attend the meeting must complete and return the enclosed hereof, the Company be authorised, or executed wholly or partly after the reply-paid Form of Direction.
in accordance with section 166 of the expiration of such authority and may Companies Act 1985 the Act, to make a purchase of Shares pursuant 4 No Director has a contract of service with the make market purchases within the Company.
