If you then agree to the terms received by the issuers agent ID number The Trust is free from capital gains tax on and conditions, in future, on the day that 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before capital profits realised within its portfolio.
documents are sent to shareholders by the time appointed for holding the meeting.
post, you will receive an e-mail providing For this purpose, the time of receipt will be These accounts have been approved by the website address link to the taken to be the time as determined by the the Directors of Scottish Mortgage documents.
After you register, paper timestamp generated by the CREST system Investment Trust PLC.
Baillie Gifford Savings documents will be available on request.
from which the issuers agent is able to Management Limited is the ISA Manager retrieve the message.
CREST Personal of the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA, Electronic Proxy Voting You can also Members or other CREST sponsored the PEP Manager of the Baillie Gifford return proxies electronically at members should contact their CREST Investment Trust PEP and the Manager of www-uk.
sponsors for assistance with appointing the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust If you have registered for electronic proxies via CREST.
For further information Share Plan and Childrens Savings Plan.
communications you will be issued a on CREST procedures, limitations and Baillie Gifford Savings Management PIN number to use when returning systems timings, please refer to the CREST Limited is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford proxies to the secure Registrar website.
The Company may treat as & Co.
Both are authorised and regulated You do not need to register for electronic invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST by the Financial Services Authority.
Baillie communications to use electronic proxy in the circumstances set out in Regulation Gifford only provides information about its voting, paper proxy forms will contain a 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities products and does not provide investment PIN number to allow you to return Regulations 2001.
The staff of Baillie Gifford may proxies electronically.
Services PLC is authorised and regulated have positions in Scottish Mortgage and by the Financial Services Authority.
may buy, sell or offer to make a purchase If you have any questions about these or sale of such securities from time to time.
services please contact Computershare Where this has been received in a The value of ISA and PEP tax advantages on 0870 702 0000. country where the provision of such a will depend on personal circumstances.
service would be contrary to local laws Past performance is no guarantee of future CREST Proxy Voting or regulations, this should be treated as performance.
The capital value of and information only.
If you are a user of the CREST system income distributed by an investment trust including a CREST Personal Member, can go down as well as up and an Scottish Mortgage is an investment you may appoint one or more proxies or investor may not get back the amount trust.
Investment trusts offer give an instruction to a proxy by having an originally invested.
The price of an investors the following: appropriate CREST message transmitted.
investment trust share will fluctuate in To appoint a proxy or to give an Participation in a diversified portfolio accordance with supply and demand instruction to a proxy whether previously of shares.
and may not reflect the underlying net appointed or otherwise via the CREST Constant supervision by experienced asset value.
system, the CREST message must be professional managers.
52 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Scottish Mortgages shares are traded on Baillie Giffords Investment the London Stock Exchange.
They can be Trust PEP Transfer bought through a stockbroker, by asking a You can transfer an existing PEP to professional adviser to do so, or through access a different market or to change the Baillie Gifford savings vehicles see your investment manager minimum value below.
Baillie Giffords Investment Further Information Trust Share Plan Retail Investments Department You can invest from 250 or from 30 Baillie Gifford Savings Management per month.
The plan is designed to be a Limited cost-effective way of saving on a regular Calton Square or lump sum basis.
1 Greenside Row EDINBURGH EH1 3AN Baillie Giffords Investment Trust ISA Tel: 0800 027 0133 You can invest in a tax efficient way by We may record your call investing a minimum of 2,000 or from 250 per month or by transferring an ISA E-mail: its@bailliegifford.
com with a value of at least 2,000 from your Website: www.
Fax: 0131 275 3955 Baillie Giffords Childrens Savings Plan A cost-effective plan tailored especially to meet the requirements to save for children.
You can invest a minimum of 250 or from 30 per month.
Directors Registrar Banker Company Broker Auditor Chairman: Computershare Investor The Bank of New York UBS Investment Bank KPMG Audit Plc Sir Donald MacKay Services PLC 1 Finsbury Avenue Saltire Court PO Box 82 London EC2M 2PP 20 Castle Terrace GA Ball The Pavilions Edinburgh EH1 2EG MM Gray Bridgwater Road WG McQueen Bristol BS99 7NH The Earl of Portarlington Tel: 0870 702 0010 JPHS Scott Lord Strathclyde Company registration No.
7058 Managers, Secretaries and Registered Office Baillie Gifford & Co Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Tel: 0131 275 2000 website: www.
