FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Further Shareholder Information share in the Company as at 31 March participating in the Baillie Gifford How to Invest 1982 was 30.6p.
Investment Trust Share Plan, Childrens The Companys shares are traded on the Savings Plan, ISA and PEP.
They can be Share Register Enquiries bought by placing an order with a This is not a recommendation to buy, sell Computershare Investor Services PLC stockbroker, by asking a professional or hold shares in Scottish Mortgage.
If you maintains the share register on behalf of the adviser to do so, or through the Baillie are unsure of what action to take contact a Company.
In the event of queries regarding Gifford savings vehicles see inside back financial adviser authorised under the shares registered in your own name, please cover for details.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. contact the Registrars on 0870 702 0010.
Please note that share values may go By quoting the reference number on your Sources of Further Information down as well as up, which may result in share certificate you can check your on the Company you receiving less than what you originally holding on the Registrars web site: invested.
The price of shares is quoted daily in www-uk.
the Financial Times and can also be Computershare Investor Services PLC is found on the Baillie Gifford website at Telephone Share Dealing Service authorised and regulated by the Financial www.
com, Trustnet at Services Authority.
co. uk and on other financial A telephone share dealing service has websites.
Company factsheets are also been established with our Registrar, Electronic Communications and available on the Baillie Gifford website Computershare Investor Services PLC, Proxy Voting and are updated monthly.
These are which provides shareholders with a way available from Baillie Gifford on request.
of buying or selling Scottish Mortgage If you hold stock in your own name you Investment Trust PLC ordinary shares on can choose to receive communications Key Dates the London Stock Exchange.
There are no from the Company, and vote, in electronic forms to complete and the share price at format.
This method reduces costs, is Ordinary shareholders normally receive two which you deal will generally be confirmed environmentally friendly and, for many, is dividends in respect of each financial year.
to you whilst you are still on the telephone.
The paragraphs below An interim dividend is paid at the end of Please ensure you have your Shareholder explain how you can use these services.
November and a final dividend is paid in Reference Number SRN ready when early July.
The AGM is normally held in making the call.
The SRN appears Electronic Communications If you would early July.
like to take advantage of this service, on your share certificate.
For further please visit our Registrars website at information about this service please Capital Gains Tax phone 0870 702 0000. www-uk.
com investor For Capital Gains Tax indexation and register.
You will need your purposes, the market value adjusted for the Please note that this share dealing service shareholder reference number which is bonus issue of 4 for 1 of an ordinary is not available to shareholders on your share certificate and tax voucher SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 51
