41 Accounting Policies 1 Basis of Accounting 4 Expenses and Interest The financial statements have been prepared under the Expenses and interest are accounted for on an accruals basis historical cost convention, modified to include the revaluation using the exchange rate applicable on payment where of fixed assets.
They assume the going concern basis of appropriate.
Expenses are charged through the revenue account accounting and that the Company will continue to have except where they directly relate to the acquisition or disposal approval as an investment trust.
They have been drawn up in of an investment, in which case they are added to the cost of accordance with applicable accounting standards and with the the investment or deducted from the proceeds.
Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies.
5 Taxation Deferred tax is recognised at the standard rate of corporation 2 Valuation of Fixed Assets tax, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences Listed investments are valued at market prices or middle market between the treatment of certain items for taxation and prices as appropriate.
Unlisted investments and mineral rights accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed out by are valued by the board on the basis of market prices, latest the balance sheet date.
To the extent that timing differences dealings, stockbrokers valuations, petroleum consultants will not be utilised, then deferred assets are not recognised.
valuations and accounting information as appropriate.
Foreign Because the Company intends each year to qualify as an assets and liabilities are valued using the middle rates of investment trust under section 842 of the Income and exchange ruling at the year end.
Corporation Taxes Act 1988, no provision is made for deferred taxation in respect of the capital gains that have been realised, 3 Income or are expected in the future to be realised, on the sale of fixed asset investments.
Income from equity shares is brought into account on the ex-dividend date or, where no ex-dividend date is quoted, when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
6 Reserves Income includes any taxes deducted at source.
Fixed returns on Gains and losses on the realisation of investments and foreign non-equity shares and debt securities are recognised on a time currency are accounted for in the realised capital reserve.
apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the Increases and decreases in the valuation of investments held at investment.
Where the Company has elected to receive its the year end are accounted for in the unrealised capital reserve.
dividends in the form of additional shares rather than in cash, the amount of the cash dividend is recognised as income.
Any 7 Pension Costs excess in the value of the shares received over the amount of The pension scheme is a defined benefit scheme and is open to the cash dividend is recognised in capital reserves.
all qualifying employees who have completed six months Foreign income is converted at the rate of exchange applicable service.
Contributions are charged against revenue.
They are on the appropriate date.
calculated by reference to actuarial valuations carried out for the trustees at intervals of not more than three years.
They represent a charge to cover the accruing liabilities on a continuing basis.
