52 Incorporation The Second Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the registered number 1284.
General Enquiries If you have an enquiry about the Company, please contact the Incorporation Company Secretary at our registered office: Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 1TJ, Scotland, UK.
General Enquiries Tel: 01382 201700 Fax: 01382 225133 Email: contact@alliancetrusts.
com Information For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone calls may be recorded.
Confidentiality Change of address notifications and enquiries about stockholdings registered in your own name should be sent to Data Protection the Companys registrars, who should also be contacted if you would like dividends on stock registered in your own name to be Electronic Communications sent to your bank or building society account.
Our registrars are: Computershare Investor Services plc Lochside House, 7 Lochside Avenue, Edinburgh Park Taxation Edinburgh EH12 9DJ, Scotland, UK.
Tel: 0870 702 0000 Fax: 0870 703 6009 Risks You may check your holdings and view other information about Alliance Trust stock registered in your own name at Table of Adjusted Indices www.
Impact of Currency Information Movements Our website www.
com contains information about the Company, including daily price, net asset value and discount information.
The Corporate Governance section of the website Key Dates contains the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, and Nomination Committees.
These are also available, on request, Investment Plans from the Company Secretary from whom the terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are also available.
Confidentiality We are unable to prevent other parties using the Companys Register for marketing or other purposes.
If you wish to limit unsolicited mail, you may contact the Mailing Preference Service at FREEPOST 22, London W16 7E2, England, UK.
Information for Stockholders 53 The price of stock will be affected by supply and demand for Data Protection it on the London Stock Exchange and may not fully The Company is a data controller as defined under the Data represent the underlying value of the assets of the Protection Act 1998.
Information received from or about Company.
The price generally stands below the net asset stockholders or investors for example from a stockbroker, value of the Trust discount but it may also stand above whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or by any other it premium.
Your capital return will depend upon the electronic or digital means of communication may be processed.
movement of the discount premium over the period you Information held on the Companys Register of Members is, by own the stock, as well as the capital performance of the law, public information and the Company cannot prevent any Companys own assets person inspecting it or having copies of it, on payment of the The assets owned by the Company may have exposure to statutory fee.
Changes in market movements and in rates of exchange may cause the value of Electronic Communications your investment to go up or down If you hold your stock in your own name we are able to send Past performance is not a guide to the future.
What you get you annual reports and notices of meetings electronically instead back will depend on investment performance.
You may not of in paper format.
If you wish to register for this service get back the amount you invest.
htm Taxation Table of Adjusted Indices to 31 July 2004 If you are any doubt about your liability to tax arising from a 1 year 10 years 10 years stockholding in the Company, you should seek professional absolute absolute compound advice.
FTSE All-Share Index 7.2% 41.8% 3.6% FTSE World Index 2.4% 36.8% 3.2% Income Tax MSCI World Index 2.3% 38.6% 3.3% If you hold your stock in your own name, the tax voucher which FTSE World ex-UK 1.9% 36.1% 3.1% you need for your tax records will be sent to the address we US Standard & Poor's 500 Index 1.7% 103.1% 7.3% have for you on the register maintained by Computershare.
NASDAQ Composite 3.8% 120.8% 8.2% If your dividends are received by a nominee, such as your Wilshire 5000 Total Market Index 1.0% 100.1% 7.2% stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for the tax FTSE World Europe ex-UK 5.3% 61.6% 4.9% voucher.
Alliance Trust Savings will automatically supply you FTSE Asia Pacific ex-Japan 1.9% 27.8% 3.2% with a consolidated income tax voucher for income received for Tokyo Topix Index 15.9% 47.2% 6.2% you in your Select Investment Plan.
Hang Seng Index 6.7% 8.0% 0.8% UK Investment Property Databank 8.6% 30.1% 2.7% Capital Gains Tax Retail Price Index 3.0% 29.7% 2.6% For investors who purchased their stock prior to 31 March 1982, Consumer Price Index 1.4% 17.1% 1.6% the cost of the stock for capital gains tax purposes may be based on the price of the stock on that date, being 2.35 per ordinary stock unit.
Impact of Major Currencies to 31 July 2004 Risks 1 year 10 years absolute absolute On page 3 we provide information on how we manage the risks Appreciation of against US$ 13.1% 18.4% in the portfolio.
If you hold or intend to buy stock in the Appreciation of against Japanese Yen 4.6% 31.7% Company, you should take professional advice as to whether an Appreciation of against Euro 5.8% 18.5% investment in our stock is suitable for you.
You should be aware that: Appreciation of against ECU up to Jan 1999 Investment should be made for the long term Source: Thomson Financial Datastream 54 Information for Stockholders Key Dates Annual General Meeting The 121st Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 11.30am on Friday 29 October 2004 at Discovery Point, Discovery Quay, Dundee.
The meeting will include a presentation by Alan Harden, the Chief Executive.
The notice of the meeting is sent separately to stockholders.
Financial Calendar Date Final Dividend and AGM for the year to 31 July 2004 Ex-dividend date 13 October 2004 Annual General Meeting 29 October 2004 Final dividend payment date 8 November 2004 Interim Dividend for the year to 31 July 2005 Proposed announcement date 14 February 2005 Proposed ex-dividend date 9 March 2005 Proposed payment date 29 March 2005 Investor Events Date Location Investor Forum 1 December 2004 Edinburgh Conference Centre, Heriot Watt University If you would like to participate in an investor forum, please contact us on 01382 306006 or email: events@alliancetrusts.
Places are available on a first come first served basis.
Information about events after December 2004 will be posted on www.
com Investment Plans provided by Alliance Trust Savings Alliance Trust Savings ATS provides and administers the Select range of investment plans.
Customers receive the following service commitments for all of the plans: Provision of a personal service: customers speak to a member of the same dedicated team every time they call Self-select investment choice in over 1,500 UK-listed securities, including the Second Alliance Trust Charges are levied on a transaction basis, not on the value of the assets held by ATS for each customer No set-up or annual plan charges No inward transfer charges when a customer transfers in ISAs and PEPs.
Dealing charges still apply No advice is given by ATS.
All plans are provided on a direct offer basis, allowing customers to make their own decisions 55 Select Investment Plan Select PEP The Select Investment Plan is a versatile investment vehicle.
It The Select PEP provides an excellent opportunity for investment is a general purpose and flexible plan with no maximum with maximum efficiency at low cost.
A customers existing PEP with another provider can be transferred to ATS and rationalised, subscription restriction.
The transaction-based charging allowing an entire portfolio to be managed within a single plan.
structure is particularly effective where whole investment portfolios are transferred to ATS for long term custody and administration.
As the plan has no set-up or annual plan How to get more information charges, the consolidation of other investments into the plan Information on the Select plans may be obtained from: may lead to significant savings over the longer term.
Shares can Alliance Trust Savings Limited also be gifted into the plan at no charge.
Meadow House, 64 Reform Street, Dundee DD1 9YP, Scotland First Steps - Investing for Children Tel: 01382 306006 Fax: 01382 202250 For those who value investment for children, ATS launched First Email: contact@alliancetrusts.
com Steps Investing for Children, in July 2004.
In addition to all Website: www.
com the benefits of the Select range, there is also an opportunity to have all Second Alliance Trust weekly purchase charges rebated For security and compliance monitoring purposes telephone back into a First Steps Plan, where the plan is linked to an calls may be recorded.
To qualify for the annual rebate, the total value of all plans PEPs, ISAs, Pensions and Risk Warning about ATS plans Investment Plans held in the adults linked account must be at ATS is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services least 10,000 as at 5 April in each tax year.
Plans are provided on a direct offer transaction basis year on year, and is not simply a limited one-time proposal to and marketed only in the United Kingdom to UK investors.
The Second Alliance Trust PLC is not authorised or regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Select Pension In the ATS plans, charges are transaction-based and may be The Select Pension is another opportunity to invest with ATS.
high or low depending on how the customer manages the A self-invested personal pension SIPP is tailor-made to investments in his or her own plan.
Taxation levels, bases and accommodate customers varying needs throughout their lives.
reliefs are subject to change and may depend on individual The SIPP structure ensures each individual pension member has circumstances.
control of his or her own pension assets and flexibility of the The information in these annual report and accounts which Select Pension means that, as time passes, investments can be constitute a financial promotion has been approved for the changed without moving providers.
Customers not only have purposes of Section 21, Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 choice in their contribution options regular or lump-sum, but by Alliance Trust Savings Limited whose contact details are also in dealing options.
They are also free to match their given above.
contributions to their individual circumstances.
The value of investments and any income from them may go Select ISA down as well as up.
Past performance should not be regarded as any indication of future performance.
ATS award-winning Select ISA, as well as accepting transfers, is available for subscriptions up to the annual limit 7,000 in 2004 05.
Stocks and shares and cash components are available on a maxi or mini basis.
Tax-free interest is payable in the cash component and the full Select choice of securities is available in the stocks and shares component.
