Shareholder Information Dividends Shareview electronic communications Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed final dividend www.
co. uk is a service offered by Lloyds TSB Registrars that in respect of the year to 31 December 2004 will be payable on 24 June enables you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps 2005 to those shareholders on the register on 29 April 2005. you to organise your investments electronically.
You can register for this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure and free as long as A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
you have access to the internet by logging on to www.
co. uk and following a simple registration process.
For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically into Electronic proxy appointments your bank or building society account.
This service has a number of For the AGM to be held on 11 May 2005, you may, if you wish, register benefits: the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to the website www.
co. uk there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing in the post: the dividend payment is received quicker as the cash is paid directly You will need your voting reference numbers the three 8-digit into your account on the payment date without the need to wait for numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have the cheque to clear: registered for a Shareview portfolio, log on to your portfolio at you will be helping Carillion to improve its efficiency by reducing www.
co. uk and click on Company Meetings.
printing and cheque clearing costs.
Please note that any electronic communication that is found to If you wish to register for this service please call Lloyds TSB Registrars contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
on the number detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
Share dealing service Results Carillion now offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a Half year to 30 June 2005: announced 7 September 2005 telephone and internet share sale service operated by Lloyds TSB Full year to 31 December 2005: announced March 2006 Registrars.
For telephone sales call 0870 850 0852 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet sales log on to Shareholder enquiries www.
You will need your shareholder Lloyds TSB Registrars maintain the register of members of the reference number as shown on your share certificate.
If you have any queries concerning your shareholding, or if any of your details change, please contact the Registrars: ShareGift ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders, Lloyds TSB Registrars administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is especially for The Causeway those who may wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares, the value Worthing of which makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further West Sussex information can be obtained at www.
org or from Lloyds BN99 6DA TSB Registrars.
Telephone 0870 600 3953 Textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 0870 600 3950 Multiple accounts on the shareholder register If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning the Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps because either your name or your address appear on each account in a slightly different way.
For security reasons, the Registrars will not amalgamate the accounts without your written consent, so if you would like any multiple accounts combined into one account, please write to Lloyds TSB Registrars at the address given above.
75 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Further Information 07
