Principal Accounting Policies Accounting Convention Debt Securities, Equity Shares and Treasury Bills The accounts of the Company and of the Group have been Securities, including equity shares and treasury bills, which are prepared under the historical cost convention, modified by the intended for use on a continuing basis in the Groups activities revaluation of certain fixed assets and dealing positions.
The are classified as investment securities.
They include portfolios of following accounting policies have been consistently applied.
securities held in countries where the Group is required to maintain a stock of liquid assets.
Investment securities are FRS17 and UITF17 revised have been adopted during 2004 stated at cost less any provision for permanent diminution in value.
and prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
The cost of dated investment securities is adjusted to reflect the Please refer to note 54 for further details.
amortisation or accretion of premiums and discounts on acquisition on a straight-line basis over the residual period to Group Accounts maturity.
The amortisation and accretion of premiums and The consolidated accounts of the Group comprise the discounts are included in interest income.
accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2004 and are drawn up in Securities other than investment securities are classified as accordance with the special provisions of Part VII Chapter II of dealing securities and are held at market value.
Where the the UK Companies Act 1985 the Act relating to banking groups, market value of such securities is higher than cost, the original Schedule 9 to the Act, applicable Accounting Standards, the cost is not disclosed as its determination is not practicable.
British Bankers Associations Statements of Recommended Accounting Practice SORPs and the SORP Accouting issues in Deferred Taxation the asset finance and leasing industry issued by the Finance and In accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 19 Deferred Leasing Asset Association.
Tax, deferred taxation is provided in full on timing differences at the rates of taxation anticipated to apply when the differences Company Accounts crystallise, subject to the recoverability of deferred tax assets The Company accounts are drawn up in accordance with arising from the inclusion of income and expenditure in taxation section 228 of, and Schedule 4 to, the Act and applicable computations in periods different from those in which they are Accounting Standards.
As permitted by section 230 of the Act, included in the financial statements.
the Companys profit and loss account has not been included in these financial statements.
Equipment Leased to Customers and Instalment Credit Agreements Bad and Doubtful Debts Assets leased to customers under agreements which transfer Provisions for bad and doubtful debts are held in respect of substantially all the risks and rewards associated with ownership, loans and advances, including cross border exposures.
The other than legal title, are classified as finance leases.
The balance provisions comprise two elements specific and general.
sheet amount represents total minimum lease payments receivable less unearned income.
Income from finance leases is recognised Provisions against loans and advances are based on an appraisal in the profit and loss account in proportion to the funds invested.
Specific provisions are made where the Fixed rate instalment credit agreements are treated in a similar repayment of identified loans is in doubt and reflect an estimate manner to finance leases.
of the amount of loss expected.
The general provision is for the inherent risk of losses which, although they have not been Lease agreements other than finance leases are classified as separately identified, are known from experience to be present operating leases.
Operating leases are included in loans and in any loan portfolio and to other material uncertainties where advances but are treated as fixed assets and depreciated over specific provisioning is not appropriate.
The amount of the the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful life of the general provision reflects past experience and judgements about asset.
The profits arising from operating leases are recognised in current conditions in particular locations or business sectors.
the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the duration of each lease.
Provisions are made against cross border exposures where a country may experience or has experienced external liquidity Income arising from the residual interest in instalment credit problems and doubts exist as to whether full recovery will agreements which have been sold is credited to the profit and be achieved.
loss account as it accrues.
Expenses incurred in generating this income are deferred and amortised over the duration of the Provisions are applied to write off advances, in part or in whole, income flow and in proportion to it.
when they are considered wholly or partly irrecoverable.
Interest on loans and advances is accrued to income until such Foreign Currencies time as reasonable doubt exists about its collectability: thereafter, Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are expressed in US and until all or part of the loan is written off, interest continues to dollar terms at rates of exchange ruling on the balance sheet accrue on customers accounts, but is not included in income.
Profits and losses earned in foreign currencies are Such suspended interest is deducted from loans and advances expressed in US dollar terms at the average exchange rate of on the balance sheet.
each currency against US dollar during the year.
Exchange Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Standard Chartered 75 Principal Accounting Policies differences arising from the balance sheet period end rate and the contribution schemes, contributions are charged to the profit and profit and loss average rate are taken to reserves.
Gains or loss account when payable.
losses arising from positions taken to hedge such profits and Sale and Repurchase Agreements losses are included in the profit and loss account.
These are arrangements under which assets are sold by Translation differences arising from the application of closing one party to another on terms that provide for the seller to rates of exchange to opening net assets of foreign operations repurchase the assets in certain circumstances at a later date.
denominated in foreign currencies are taken directly to reserves.
Where the substance of the transaction is that of a secured loan, Exchange differences arising on the translation of opening net the sale and any apparent profit will not be recorded as such in monetary assets and results of operations in areas experiencing the books of the seller, but the proceeds of sale will be recorded hyper-inflation are included in the profit and loss account.
Non-monetary assets in these areas are not retranslated.
Swaps and Sales of Assets All other exchange differences arising from normal trading Assets acquired through debt exchange transactions are included activities, and on branch profit and dividend remittances to the in the accounts in the same line as the original underlying asset United Kingdom, are included in the profit and loss account.
at the directors assessment of their fair value.
Where the asset Investments in Subsidiary Undertakings represents exposure to a country which is experiencing payment Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated in the balance difficulties, it is stated at its principal amount and any provision sheet of the Company at the Companys share of their attributable required to reduce the exposure to its fair value is included with net assets, together with any long-term loans provided by the other provisions of a like nature.
Company to the subsidiary undertakings.
Profits and losses on sales of assets are calculated by reference to their net carrying amount, whether at historical cost less any Joint Ventures provisions made or at a valuation, at the time of disposal.
Interests in joint ventures are stated at the Groups share of gross assets including attributable goodwill, less its share of gross liabilities.
Tangible Fixed Assets Freehold and long leasehold premises premises with unexpired Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments lease terms of 50 years or more are included in the accounts Off-balance sheet financial instruments are valued with reference at their historical cost or at the amount of any subsequent to market prices and the resultant profit or loss is included in the valuation.
Leasehold premises with no long-term premium profit and loss account, except where the position in the instrument value are not revalued.
has been designated as a hedge when the profit or loss resulting from marking them to market is dealt with in the same way as Land is not depreciated.
Freehold premises are amortised on a the accounting treatment applied to the position hedged.
straight-line basis over their estimated residual lives.
Leasehold premises are amortised over the remaining term of each lease on Trading positions are valued at market rates, and non-trading a straight-line basis.
positions are valued on the same basis as the items being hedged.
Netting occurs where transactions with the same Equipment, including fixed plant in buildings, computers and counterparty meet the following requirements.
The balances capitalised software development expenditure, is stated at cost must be determinable and in freely convertible currencies, the and is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected Standard Chartered entity can insist on net settlement, and this economic life, which is six years on a weighted average basis.
Intangible Fixed Assets Retirement Benefits Any purchased goodwill is capitalised and amortised to nil, on a The Group has adopted FRS17 Retirement Benefits in full straight-line basis, over its estimated useful life.
In prior years, the Group complied with the period of capitalised goodwill is up to 20 years, being the period transitional requirements of this standard.
In accordance with over which the Group expects to derive economic benefit from FRS17, the operating and financing costs of defined benefit the assets.
Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect pension and post-retirement schemes are recognised separately of acquisitions before 1 January 1998 was written off through in the profit and loss account.
Service costs are systematically reserves in the year of acquisition and has not been restated.
spread over the service lives of the employees and financing Any goodwill previously written off through reserves is charged costs are recognised in the period in which they arise.
Financing through the profit and loss account in the year of disposal.
costs include the interest cost and the expected return on assets Fees and Commissions calculated using the market value of assets.
The costs of past Fees or commissions which represent a payment for a service service benefit enhancements, settlements and curtailments are provided in setting up a transaction, are credited to the profit and also recognised in the period in which they arise.
The difference loss account once they are receivable.
between actual and expected returns on assets during the year, Fees or commissions which in substance amount to an including changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the additional interest charge, are recognised over the life of the Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
For defined underlying transaction on a level yield basis.
76 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2004
