SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 70 Glossary Investment stages: General Terms Limited partnership Early-stage Carried interest carry Most private equity firms structure their funds Seed Carried interest or simply carry represents as limited partnerships.
Investors represent Financing provided to allow a business the share of a private equity funds profit the limited partners and private equity concept to be developed, perhaps involving usually 20% that will accrue to the general managers the general partners.
production of prototypes and additional partners.
research, prior to bringing a product to Realisation market.
Committed funds or raised funds or The sale of an investment.
Start-up committed capital Financing provided to companies for the Capital committed by investors.
This will be Secondary market use in product development and initial requested or drawn down by private equity The secondary market enables institutional marketing.
Companies may be in the managers on a deal-by-deal basis.
This investors to sell their stakes in a private equity process of being set up or may have been in amount is different from invested funds for partnership before business for a short time, but have not sold two reasons.
Firstly, most partnerships will it is wound up.
invest only between 80% and 95% of Other early-stage committed funds.
Second, one has to Trade sale Financing provided to companies that deduct the annual management fee which Sale of the equity share of an investee have completed the product development is supposed to cover the cost of operation company to another company.
stage and require further funds to initiate of a fund.
Turnaround They will not yet be generating profit.
Distributions A loss making company which can be Payments to investors after the realisation of successfully transformed into a profit maker.
Late-stage investments of the partnership.
Expansion financing Capital provided for the growth and Divestments or realisations or exits expansion of a company which is breaking Exits of investments, usually via a trade even or even trading profitably.
Funds may sale or an IPO Initial Public Offering be used to finance increased production on a stock market.
capacity, market or product development and or provide additional working capital.
Draw downs Capital provided for turn-around situations Payments to the partnership by investors is also included in this category.
in order to finance investments.
Funds Management Buy-Out MBO are drawn down from investors on a Funds provided to enable current operating deal-by-deal basis.
management and investors to acquire an existing business.
Fund of funds Management Buy-In MBI Private equity funds whose principal activity Funds provided to enable a manager or consists of investing in other private equity group of managers from outside the funds.
Investors in funds of funds can thereby company to buy into the company.
increase their level of diversification.
Follow-on investment Gearing, debt equity ratio or leverage A company which has previously received The level of a companys borrowings as a venture capital.
Secondary purchase Hurdle rate Purchase of existing shares in a company Arrangement that caps the downside risk for from another venture capital firm, or from investors.
It allows investors to get preferential other shareholders.
access to the profits of the partnership.
In the absence of reaching the hurdle return, Public to private general partners will not receive a share of the Purchase of the share capital of a company profit carried interest.
A hurdle rate of 10% quoted on a stock exchange with the means that the private equity fund needs to intention of fide-listing the company and achieve a return of at least 10% before the taking it private.
profits are shared according to the carried interest arrangement.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 71 Further information on our website www.
com About SVG Capital SVG Capital advised products Share price Share price Overview Our approach About private equity SVG private equity Our approach Key members Performance Fund of funds Portfolio Fund of funds II Top 20 companies P123 Team profiles SVG public equity Board profiles Key members Report and accounts UK focus fund Glossary of terms SRF FAQ's Presentations and webcasts Investor Relations Quick links Share price About private equity Key facts Our approach Recent news Key facts Newssheets Team profiles Report and accounts Share price Presentations and webcasts Latest news How to invest Advised products Key dates Performance Shareholder services Advisers Press Centre Share price Key facts Recent news Newssheets Report and accounts Team profiles Request information Regulatory news SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 72 Notes 154932 SVG new Covers.
qxd 29 3 05 5:59 pm Page 2 This is a strong set of results, driven by strong performance from the portfolio companies and increased enthusiasm for sales and refinancing activity in 2004.
The year has included several significant write-ups such as Premiere, which successfully listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in March 2005.
Nicholas Ferguson, CEO Financial highlights 17.7% 14.0% p. a.
Growth in net assets Out-performance of public markets Fully diluted net assets per Compound growth in diluted net share increased by 17.7% to assets per share of 8.3% p. a. over 539.7p.
the last five years, out-performing the FTSE All-Share by 14.0% p. a. over the same period.
Distributions premium Compound annual growth rate Distributions during the year were In diluted net assets per share at an average premium of 27.6% since launch in 1996, a 9.8% p. a. to December 2003 valuations.
out-performance of the FTSE All-Share.
Contents 31 Statement of Directors 01 Investment objective and responsibilities financial highlights 32 Corporate governance 02 Chairmans statement 35 Board committees 04 CEOs operating review 06 Portfolio review 38 Independent auditors report 12 20 largest underlying 39 Financials companies 64 Company summary 18 Board of Directors 65 Information for shareholders 20 List of investments 66 Notice and agenda 24 Report of the Directors 69 Advisers Designed by Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 27 Remuneration report 70 Glossary www.
co. uk SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 154932 SVG new Covers.
qxd 29 3 05 5:59 pm Page 1 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Head Office 111 Strand London WC2R 0AG Telephone 020 7010 8900 Fax 020 7240 5346 www.
