SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 64 Company summary The Company Where shares were acquired before 6 April Individual Savings Account Schroder SVG Capital plc carries on business as an 1998, the capital gain will also be reduced by maxi ISA plan investment trust and it is listed on the indexation allowance for the period up to The Schroder ISA offers investors: London Stock Exchange.
lump sum investments in the ordinary shares of the Company from a minimum Investment trust companies are able to switch For the benefit of those shareholders who of 1,000 to a maximum of 7,000 in the investments without liability for capital gains acquired their holdings in exchange for their current tax year tax.
This, together with the advantages of interests in Schroder Ventures funds, the a regular investment option from a professional management and spread of risk, acquisition cost of the shares for capital gains minimum of 50 per month makes investment trusts a valuable investment tax purposes based upon initial dealings on competitive charges medium.
23 May 1996 was as follows: the option to reinvest income the option to include other trusts.
In order to obtain exemption from capital Each ordinary share of 1: 191.50p.
gains tax the Company conducts itself with a If you would like further information about the The acquisition cost of the Subordinated view to being an approved investment trust Schroder investment trust dealing service or Convertible Bonds for capital gains tax for the purposes of Section 842 of the United the Schroder Maxi ISA, please contact the purposes based upon the original purchase Kingdom Income and Corporation Taxes Act Secretary of the Company at 31 Gresham price was as follows: 1988 as amended.
The Company is not a Street, London EC2V 7QA or call Schroder close company for taxation purposes.
1 Each 4 2% Subordinated Convertible Bond of 100,000 nominal value: 100,000.
Information for shareholders Registrar services The Companys shares and Subordinated Communications with shareholders are mailed Schroder investment trust dealing service Convertible Bonds are listed on the London to the address held on the share register.
Any The Schroder investment trust dealing service Stock Exchange.
The stock exchange code for notifications and enquiries relating to registered provides a convenient and cost effective the shares is SVI and for the bonds is SVIC.
share holdings, including a change of address or means of investing in the ordinary shares of The price of the shares is quoted daily in the other amendment should be directed to Lloyds the Company.
The service offers investors: Financial Times, The Daily Telegraph and The TSB Registrars Scotland at PO Box 28448, Times.
Finance House, Orchard Brae, Edinburgh a regular investment option from a EH4 1WQ.
The helpline telephone number of minimum of 50 per month Real time share information for the shares Lloyds TSB Registrars is 0870 601 5366. a lump sum investment option from a is available on the FT Cityline by dialing: minimum of 1,000 0906 843 1432.
Calls are charged at 60p per Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland maintain a daily dealing minute at all times.
web-based enquiry service for shareholders.
competitive charges Currently the Shareview site address below The net asset value is calculated at 30 June the option to reinvest income.
contains information available on public and 31 December each year following an registers.
Shareholders will be invited to enter extensive valuation procedure.
Due to the Other investment trusts that are available their name, shareholder reference account nature of the Companys investments, it is not through this service are Schroder AsiaPacific number and post code and will be able to practicable to publish the net asset value on a Fund plc, Schroder Income Growth Fund plc, view information on their own holding.
Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc, Schroder Split Investment Fund plc, Schroder Split ZDP Visit www.
A factsheet containing information including plc, Schroder UK Growth Fund plc, Schroder the diversification of the portfolio and the UK Mid & Small Cap Fund plc and JP Morgan Chase Bank act as Registrar Companys largest investments is published International Biotechnology Trust plc.
for the Subordinated Convertible bonds.
quarterly and is available on request from the Any notifications and enquiries relating to Company Secretary.
Subordinated Convertible Bonds should be directed to JP Morgan Chase Bank, Capital gains tax information Trinity Tower, 9 Thomas More Street, For the 2004 2005 tax year, the annual capital London E1N 1YT.
gains after adjusting for indexation and taper relief of private individuals in excess of 8,200 2003 2004: 7,900 are assessed for capital gains tax.
Capital gains on shares disposed of by individuals may be eligible for taper relief.
The taper reduces the amount of a chargeable gain according to how long the asset has been held for periods after 5 April 1998.
