SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 31 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing The accounts are published on the accounts for each financial period which give www.
com website, which is a a true and fair view of the state of affairs of website maintained by SVG Advisers Limited the Company and of the Group at the end of SVGA, a wholly owned subsidiary of the the financial period and of the return for the Company.
The maintenance and integrity of period, and are in accordance with applicable this website is the responsibility of SVGA.
The accounts are also published on the The Directors are satisfied that the Group has www.
co. uk website, which is a adequate resources to continue in business website maintained by Schroders.
The and accordingly that the accounts should be maintenance and integrity of the website drawn up on a going concern basis.
Further, maintained by Schroders or any other appropriate accounting policies, consistently subsidiary of Schroders plc is, so far as it applied and supported by reasonable and relates to the Company, the responsibility prudent judgements and estimates, have been of Schroders.
used in the preparation of these accounts and applicable accounting standards have been The work carried out by the auditors does not followed.
These policies and standards, for involve consideration of the maintenance and which the Directors accept responsibility, have integrity of these websites and accordingly, been discussed with the Auditors.
the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts The Directors are responsible for keeping shown on the websites from this published proper accounting records which disclose with report and accounts.
Visitors to the websites reasonable accuracy at any time the financial need to be aware that legislation in the United position of the Group and to enable them to Kingdom governing the preparation and ensure that the accounts comply with the dissemination of the accounts may differ from Companies Act 1985.
They are also legislation in their jurisdiction.
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps The Directors believe that they have complied for the prevention and detection of fraud, with these responsibilities.
error, other irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations.
