SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 66 Notice and agenda NOTICE is hereby given that the ninth Annual 12.
That, in substitution for the authority b the allotment of equity securities in General Meeting of SVG Capital plc will be granted at the Companys Annual General connection with a rights issue, open held at 12.00 noon on Monday, 25 April Meeting held on 29 April 2004, the Board offer or any other pre-emptive offer in 2005 at 111 Strand, London WC2R 0AG, to be and is hereby generally and favour of ordinary shareholders where consider and, if thought fit, pass the following unconditionally authorised to exercise all the equity securities respectively resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 12 will powers of the Company to allot relevant attributable to the interests of be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and securities within the meaning of Section ordinary shareholders on a fixed resolutions 13 and 14 will be proposed as 80 of the Companies Act 1985 : record date are proportionate as Special Resolutions: a up to an aggregate nominal amount nearly as may be to the respective of 1,225,298 equivalent to 1 per numbers of ordinary shares held by 1. a That the Operating Agreement, as cent of the issued ordinary share them subject to such exclusions or described in Part III of the Circular to capital of the Company as at other arrangements as the Board may shareholders dated 24 March 2005, 24 March 2005 in connection with deem necessary or expedient to deal be approved.
the SVG Capital plc Executive Share with fractional entitlements or legal or b That the investment policy of the Option Plan 2001: and practical problems arising in any Company be changed as set out in b up to an aggregate nominal amount overseas territory, the requirements of the letter from the Chairman of the of 40,843,284 equivalent to any regulatory body or stock Company in Part I of the Circular to one-third of the issued ordinary exchange or any other matter shareholders dated 24 March 2005. share capital of the Company as at whatsoever : and c That the Subscription Agreement, as 24 March 2005, c the allotment otherwise than described in Part III of the Circular to which authority shall expire at the pursuant to sub-paragraphs a and shareholders dated 24 March 2005, conclusion of the next Annual General b above of equity securities up to and the issue of the New Shares on Meeting of the Company after the passing an aggregate nominal amount of the terms set out in the Subscription of this resolution unless previously 12,252,985 equivalent to 10 per Agreement, be approved.
revoked or varied by the Company in cent of the issued ordinary share d That Damon Buffini be elected as a general meeting save that the Company capital of the Company as at Director of the Company.
may before such expiry make an offer or 24 March 2005, 2.
That the Report of the Directors agreement which would or might require and shall expire at the conclusion of the and the Accounts for the year ended relevant securities to be allotted after such next Annual General Meeting of the 31 December 2004 be adopted.
expiry and the Board may allot relevant Company after the passing of this 3.
That the Directors Remuneration Report securities in pursuance of such an offer or resolution, save that the Company may for the year ended 31 December 2004 be agreement as if the authority conferred before such expiry make an offer or approved.
agreement which would or might require 4.
That Charles Sinclair be elected as a equity securities to be allotted after such Director of the Company.
That, in substitution for the authority expiry and the Board may allot equity 5.
That Francis Finlay be elected as a granted at the Companys Annual General securities in pursuance of such an offer or Director of the Company.
Meeting held on 29 April 2004, the Board agreement as if the power conferred 6.
That Anthony Habgood be re-elected as a be and is hereby empowered, pursuant to hereby had not expired.
Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to 7.
That Edgar Koning be re-elected as a allot equity securities within the meaning 14.
That the Company be and is hereby Director of the Company.
of Section 94 of the said Act for cash, generally and unconditionally authorised 8.
That Nicholas Ferguson be re-elected as a pursuant to the authority conferred by in accordance with Section 166 of the Director of the Company.
resolution 12 above, as if sub-section 1 Companies Act 1985 to make market 9.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed of Section 89 of the said Act did not purchases within the meaning of Section as Auditors of the Company.
apply to any such allotment, provided 163 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 10.
That the Board be authorised to agree the that this power shall be limited to: 1.00 each in the capital of the Company Auditors remuneration.
a the allotment of equity securities up Shares, provided that: 11.
That the aggregate limit of all fees to an aggregate nominal amount of a the maximum number of Shares payable to Directors, as set out in Article 1,225,298 equivalent to 1 per cent hereby authorised to be purchased 1 F of the Companys Articles of of the issued ordinary share capital of shall be 18,367,224 equivalent to Association, be increased to 600,000. the Company as at 24 March 2005 14.99 per cent of the issued ordinary in connection with the SVG Capital share capital of the Company as at plc Executive Share Option Plan 2001: 24 March 2005 : SVG Capital plc SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report and Accounts 2004 2004 67 67 b the minimum price which may be Explanatory notes and additional paid for a Share is 1.00: information c the maximum price which may be The following notes give an explanation of paid for a Share is an amount equal certain of the business to be conducted at the to 105 per cent.
of the average of the Annual General Meeting to be held at middle market quotations for a Share 12.00 noon on Monday, 25 April 2005 at taken from the London Stock 111 Strand, London, WC2R 0AG.
Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding Resolution 1 the Proposals the day on which the Share is As part of the proposed arrangements with purchased: Permira set out in further detail in the letter d purchases may only be made from the Chairman of the Company in pursuant to this authority if the Shares Part I of the Circular dated 24 March 2005, are at the date of the proposed shareholder approval is sought to approve the purchase trading on the London Operating Agreement, to amend the Stock Exchange at a discount to the investment policy of the Company, to net asset value: approve the Subscription Agreement and to e the authority hereby conferred shall appoint Damon Buffini to the Board.
expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Summaries of the Operating Agreement and Company after the passing of this the Subscription Agreement are set out in resolution unless such authority is Part III of the Circular dated 24 March 2005. renewed prior to such time: and f the Company may make a contract to Details regarding Resolutions 12, 13 and 14 purchase Shares under the authority are set out on page 24. hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
Registered Office: 31 Gresham Street London EC2V 7QA By Order of the Board Schroder Investment Management Limited Company Secretary 24 March 2005 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 68 Notice and agenda continued Notes continued CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy service providers are referred, in particular, An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend or proxies through the CREST electronic to those sections of the CREST Manual and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint proxy appointment service may do so for the concerning practical limitations of the one or more proxies to attend and insofar as Annual General Meeting and any CREST system and timings.
permitted by the Companys Articles of adjournment s thereof by using the Association to vote instead of him.
procedures described in the CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST CREST personal members or other CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the sponsored members, and those CREST in regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, members who have appointed a voting Securities Regulations 2001. the Company has specified that only those service provider s, should refer to their CREST Shareholders registered in the Register of sponsor or voting service provider s, who will Members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on be able to take the appropriate action on 23 April 2005 shall be entitled to attend and their behalf.
vote at the meeting in respect of the number of Shares registered in their name at that In order for a proxy appointment or time.
Changes to the Register of Members instruction made using the CREST service to after 6.00 p. m. on 23 April 2005 shall be be valid, the appropriate CREST message a disregarded in determining the right of any CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly person to attend and vote at the meeting.
authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the A proxy need not be a member.
A form of information required for such instructions, as proxy is enclosed for ordinary shareholders described in the CREST Manual.
The message, which should be completed and returned regardless of whether it constitutes the to the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB appointment of a proxy or an amendment to Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, the instruction given to a previously West Sussex BN99 6ZR not later than appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, 48 hours before the time fixed for the be transmitted so as to be received by the meeting.
Completion of the proxy will not issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time preclude an ordinary shareholder from for receipt of proxy appointments specified attending and voting in person.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined Copies of the terms of appointment of the by the time stamp applied to the message by non-executive Directors and, in accordance the CREST Applications Host from which the with the requirements of the Companies Act issuers agent is able to retrieve the message 1985, a statement of all transactions of each by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed Director and of his family interests in the by CREST.
After this time any change of shares of the Company will be available for instructions to proxies appointed through inspection by any member of the Company at CREST should be communicated to the the registered office of the Company, appointee through other means.
31 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QA, during normal business hours on any CREST members and, where applicable, their weekday public holidays excepted and by CREST sponsors or voting service providers any person attending the Annual General should note that CRESTCo does not make Meeting, during the continuance of the available special procedures in CREST for any Meeting.
None of the Directors have a particular messages.
Normal system timings contract of service with the Company.
and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
Profiles of each of the persons offering It is the responsibility of the CREST member themselves for election or re-election as concerned to take or, if the CREST member is Directors other than Damon Buffini are on a CREST personal member or sponsored page 18 of this report.
member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor Biographical details of Damon Buffini are set or voting service provider s take s such out in the letter from the Chairman of the action as shall be necessary to ensure that a Company in Part I of the Circular dated 24 message is transmitted by means of the March 2005.
CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting
