Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the sixteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Amberley House, New Road, Rainham, 55 Essex RM13 8QN on Tuesday 10 August 2004 at 11am for the following purposes: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 1 to 10 and 13 and 14 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 11 and 12 will be proposed as special resolutions.
Ordinary business Resolution 1 To receive and adopt the accounts for the period ended 1 May 2004 together with the Directors report and the Auditors report on these accounts and on the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
Resolution 2 To declare a final dividend of 27p per share.
Resolution 3 To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 1 May 2004, which is set out in the annual report of the Company for that year.
Resolution 4 To re-elect Baroness Noakes as a Director.
Resolution 5 To re-elect John Kitching as a Director.
Resolution 6 To re-elect Christian Sollesse as a Director.
Resolution 7 To re-elect Simon Metcalf as a Director.
Resolution 8 To re-elect Sir Harry Djanogly as a Director.
Resolution 9 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors until the conclusion of the next General Meeting of the Company at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Resolution 10 THAT the Board be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 231,855 provided that this authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired, and all previous authorities under the said section 80 be and they are hereby revoked.
Resolution 11 Special resolution: THAT the Board be and it is hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to sell treasury shares as defined in section 162 of the Act and subject to the passing of resolution 10 set out in this Notice of Annual General Meeting, make other allotments of equity securities and the expression allotment of equity securities and like expressions used in this resolution shall have the meaning given to them by virtue of section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the previous resolution in each case as if sub-section 1 of section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue or offering by way of rights in favour of holders of equity securities and any other persons entitled to participate in such issue or offering other than the Company itself in respect of any shares held by it as treasury shares where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of such holders and persons are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of equity securities held by or deemed to be held by them on the record date of such allotment subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws or requirements of any recognised regulatory body in any territory: and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subparagraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 34,813. and this power shall, unless renewed, expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution save that the Company may before such expiry make any offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Notice of Annual General Meeting Special business 56 Resolution 12 Special resolution THAT the Company be and is hereby generally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make one or more market purchases as defined in section 163 of the said Act of Ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary shares provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 6,962,632 representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the Notice of this Meeting : b the minimum price which may be paid for such Ordinary shares is 1p per share exclusive of expenses being the nominal value of the share: c the maximum price per share exclusive of expenses which may be paid for such Ordinary shares shall be 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of an Ordinary share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the purchase is made: d the authority hereby conferred shall unless previously renewed or revoked expire on the earlier of the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and the date which is 18 months after the date on which this resolution is passed: e the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase Ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
Resolution 13 Ordinary resolution THAT a the Carpetright plc 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan the 2004 LTIP the principal features of which are summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of the 2004 Annual General Meeting, the draft rules relating to which have been produced to the meeting and, for the purposes of identification only, initialled by the Chairman, be and are hereby approved: and b the Directors be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and things necessary or desirable to implement the 2004 LTIP including the making of any changes to the draft rules of the 2004 LTIP as the Directors may consider necessary or desirable to comply with the requirements of the London Stock Exchange, the UK Listing Authority and or institutional investor requirements: and c the Directors be and are hereby authorised to establish further schemes based upon the 2004 LTIP but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories provided that such schemes will contain the same limit on the number of Ordinary shares that can be issued under the scheme as the 2004 LTIP and any Ordinary shares issued under such schemes will count towards the limits in the 2004 LTIP and vice versa.
Resolution 14 Ordinary resolution THAT a the Carpetright plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme the SAYE Scheme the principal features of which are summarised in the Appendix to the Notice of the 2004 Annual General Meeting, the draft rules relating to which have been produced to the meeting and, for the purposes of identification only, initialled by the Chairman, be and are hereby approved: and b the Directors be and are hereby authorised to do all acts and things necessary or desirable to implement the SAYE Scheme including the making of any changes to the draft rules of the SAYE Scheme as the Directors may consider necessary or desirable to comply with the requirements of the Inland Revenue, the London Stock Exchange, the UK Listing Authority and or institutional investor requirements: and c the Directors be and are hereby authorised to establish further schemes based upon the SAYE Scheme but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws in overseas territories provided that such schemes will contain the same limit on the number of Ordinary shares that can be issued under the scheme as the SAYE Scheme and any Ordinary shares issued under such schemes will count towards the limit in the SAYE Scheme and vice versa.
Mrs P A T Dregent Secretary 30 June 2004 Registered Office: Amberley House, New Road Rainham, Essex RM13 8QN Reg.
2294875 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Notes 57 1Ordinary shareholders are entitled to attend and vote on all resolutions at the Meeting.
2 Copies of Directors service contracts with the Company, the Rules of the proposed 2004 LTIP and the SAYE Scheme may be inspected at the Companys Registered Office and at the offices of Travers Smith Braithwaite at 10 Snow Hill, London EC1A 2AL during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the date of this notice and will also be available to members on 10 August 2004 at Amberley House for at least 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and until the conclusion of the Meeting.
3A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint one or more proxies who need not also be a member of the Company to attend and vote in his place.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this Notice for use in connection with the Meeting, if desired.
To be valid a form of proxy must reach the Companys Registrars, Computershare Services plc, PO BOX 1075, Bristol BS99 3ZZ not later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the Meeting in person.
4 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the Meeting is 11am on 8 August 2004.
Entries on the register of members after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If, however, the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the register of members at the time which is 48 hours before the time fixed for the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that Notice.
5 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members of the Company in respect of the relevant joint holdings.
6In accordance with paragraph 29 of Schedule 13 to the Companies Act 1985, the register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company maintained under section 325 of the said Act will be available for inspection at the commencement, and during the continuance, of the Annual General Meeting.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Appendix 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan 58 The following is a summary of the proposed 2004 Long Term Incentive Plan the 2004 LTIP referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 30 of the 2004 Annual Report.
a Eligibility Any individual who is an employee of the Company including an Executive Director or one of its subsidiaries is eligible to participate in the 2004 LTIP.
Participation is however at the discretion of the Board, acting on the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee.
b Awards The Board may make awards to eligible employees during a specified period each year.
This is within the period of 42 days immediately following the date on which the plan is approved by the Companys shareholders, and within 42 days of each anniversary thereof.
An award comprises a contingent entitlement to receive up to a specified number of Ordinary shares in the Company at a future date.
The maximum number of Ordinary shares that can be subject to an award granted to any individual in any year may not exceed 40% of the relevant participants earnings for that year, calculated by reference to the market value of the Companys Ordinary shares on the date of the award.
No award that is to be satisfied by the transfer of treasury shares may be granted by the Board on any date if the number of Ordinary shares comprised therein, when aggregated with the number of Ordinary shares issued or remaining capable of being issued or transferred out of treasury pursuant to rights granted under the 2004 LTIP and any other employee share scheme of the Company in the period of 10 years ending on that date would, exceed 10% of the Ordinary shares in issue immediately prior to that date.
c Vesting of awards The vesting of awards will generally be dependent upon the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Awards initially granted under the 2004 LTIP will be subject to performance conditions that compare the performance of the Companys total shareholder return and earnings per share against that of a comparator group of 16 other companies in the non-food retail sector over the period of three years from the award date.
Half of each award will be governed by each measure.
No award will vest in respect of each half unless the Companys performance places it in the 51st percentile or higher within the peer group.
The higher the Companys position within the Group, the greater the percentage of the award that will vest.
All of the award will vest in respect of each half if the Companys performance places it in the 75th percentile or higher.
If the performance conditions have been satisfied then awards will vest at the end of the performance period but will lapse to the extent that the performance conditions have not been met.
Once awards have vested the participants may call for the Ordinary shares within six months from the date of vesting on payment of the call price if any, which shall not exceed the aggregate nominal value of all the Ordinary shares called for.
If participants fail to call for their Ordinary shares within this period, their awards will lapse.
d Manner of exercise Within 30 days of the receipt of a call for vested awards by the participant in the prescribed form, the Company must procure the transfer of the Ordinary shares in respect of which the call has been made to the participant and shall issue a definitive certificate in respect of the Ordinary shares transferred.
Awards may also be satisfied by the transfer of Ordinary shares held as treasury shares as defined in section 162A Companies Act 1985.
Ordinary shares can be held in uncertificated form.
Ordinary shares will rank pari passu in all respects with the other full paid issued Ordinary shares.
It is not proposed that awards will be satisfied by the issue of new Ordinary shares.
e Cessation of employment If a participant ceases to be an employee during any performance period, he will generally forfeit his award.
If however the participant leaves by reason of death or retirement due to ill-health, awards will vest in respect of such proportion of shares as the Remuneration Committee may in their absolute discretion determine taking into account the period of time that has elapsed since the relevant award date and the Companys performance up to the date of cessation.
Alternatively, the Board may, in its absolute discretion make a cash payment to a participant who leaves in such circumstances, such payment to be calculated by reference to the market value of the Companys shares on the date of cessation and taking into account the period of time since the relevant award date and the Companys performance up to the date of cessation.
f Change of control In the event of a change of control of the Company all awards will vest on pro rata basis taking into account the time that has elapsed since the relevant award date provided that the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the performance conditions have been satisfied to the extent possible.
g Variation of share capital In the event of a capitalisation issue or offer by way of rights including an open offer or upon any consolidation, subdivision or reduction or other variation of the Companys capital, the number of Ordinary shares the subject of an award may be adjusted in such a manner as the Companys auditors shall confirm in writing to be, in their opinion, fair and reasonable.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 h Amendments and general 59 No rights under an award may be transferred by a participant to any other person except in the event of a participants death when rights will become exercisable by the participants personal representative.
Awards will not be pensionable.
The 2004 LTIP may be amended by the Board in any way provided that i no amendment may be made which would materially prejudice the interests of participants in relation to awards already granted to them under the 2004 LTIP unless the sanction of participants has been obtained.
ii all amendments to the provisions relating to eligibility to participate, the limit on the number of Ordinary shares subject to the 2004 LTIP, the maximum entitlement for any one participant or the basis for determining a participants entitlement to and the terms of Ordinary shares to be provided and adjustment thereof, if any, in the event of a capitalisation issue, rights issue, subdivision or consolidation of Ordinary shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital to the advantage of participants will require the prior consent of the Company in general meeting unless they are minor amendments to benefit the administration of the 2004 LTIP or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants, the Company or a member of the Group.
The Carpetright plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme the SAYE Scheme The following is a summary of the proposed new SAYE Scheme referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 30 of the 2004 Annual Report.
a Eligibility All employees and Directors of the Group who have completed a qualifying period of service with the Group such qualifying period cannot be set at more than five years and who are liable to UK income tax will be eligible to participate in the SAYE Scheme whenever it is operated.
Participation may also be offered, at the discretion of the Board taking account of the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee, to other Directors or employees who otherwise do not satisfy all of the above criteria.
b Issue of invitations Invitations to participate in the SAYE Scheme may be made during the period of 42 days following the date on which the Scheme or any amendment to it comes into effect or the period of 42 days following the announcement of the Companys final or interim results for any financial period or within the period of 42 days commencing on any day on which changes to the legislation affecting share option schemes approved by the Inland Revenue other than changes solely relating to executive share option schemes is proposed or made.
In circumstances which the Board considers to be exceptional, invitations may be made at any time.
If the Company is restricted from issuing invitations during one of the above periods by statute, order or regulation then invitations may be issued within the period of 42 days beginning with the date on which such restriction is removed.
c Exercise price The price at which an option holder may acquire Ordinary shares on the exercise of an option shall be determined by the Board but shall not be less than the greater of 80% of the market value of an Ordinary share and its nominal value.
d Savings contract Upon applying for an option, the participant will be required to enter into an approved SAYE contract with a savings institution nominated by the Company which lasts for either three, five or seven years.
The maximum amount which an employee is permitted to contribute under SAYE contracts is currently 250 per month.
The minimum contribution is currently 5 per month.
The total exercise price of the Ordinary shares over which the option is granted may not exceed the aggregate of the monthly contributions and bonus payable at the end of the participants related SAYE contract.
e Scheme limit The number of Ordinary shares over which options may be granted under the SAYE Scheme on any date of grant shall be limited so that the total number of Ordinary shares issued or capable of being issued in any 10 year period under all the Companys employee share schemes is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued Ordinary shares from time to time.
Options and awards satisfied or to be satisfied by the transfer of treasury shares will be taken into account when calculating such limit.
f Exercisability Options will normally be exercisable during a period of six months following the allocation of a bonus under the related SAYE contract.
Earlier exercise is, however, permitted if the participant dies or leaves employment through injury, disability, redundancy or retirement, or where a participant leaves employment of the Group by reason of his employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group, or if the undertaking in which he is employed is sold outside the Group.
Early exercise may also be permitted in the event of a takeover, reconstruction or voluntary winding up of the Company and in the event of a participant reaching the age of 65 and continuing to be employed by the Group.
g Manner of exercise Within 30 days of the receipt of a notice of exercise of an option, the Ordinary shares in respect of which the option has been exercised must be issued by the Company or the Company must procure their transfer to the option holder and shall issue a definitive certificate in respect of the Ordinary shares allotted or transferred.
Options may also be satisfied by the transfer of Ordinary shares held as treasury shares as defined in section 162A Companies Act 1985.
Ordinary shares will rank pari passu in all respects with the other fully paid issued Ordinary shares.
Following the exercise of any option, the Company will apply to the UK Listing Authority and the London Stock Exchange for the relevant Ordinary shares to be listed and admitted to trading on the Official List.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Appendix h Change of control 60 If any company obtains control of the Company as a result of a takeover offer or the sanctioning of a scheme of arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985 or if a company has become bound or entitled to acquire all the Ordinary shares under sections 428 to 430F of that Act, an option holder may, by agreement with that other company, seek the release of his options in return for the grant of equivalent options over shares in that other company.
i Variation of share capital In the event of a capitalisation issue or offer by way of rights including an open offer or upon any consolidation, subdivision or reduction or other variation of the Companys capital, the number of Ordinary shares the subject of an option and or the exercise price may, subject to the prior approval of the Inland Revenue, be adjusted in such a manner as the Companys auditors shall confirm in writing to be, in their opinion, fair and reasonable provided that the exercise price remains at least equal to the nominal value of an Ordinary share.
If the exercise price would otherwise fall below the nominal value, the Company may capitalise reserves to the extent it is lawful to pay up additional shares for allotment to option holders.
j Amendments and general No rights under an option may be transferred by an option holder to any other person except in the event of an option holders death when rights will become exercisable by the option holders personal representative within 12 months of the date of death but no later than 10 years after the date of grant.
Options granted under the SAYE Scheme shall not be pensionable.
The SAYE Scheme may be amended by the Board in any way provided that: i no amendment may be made which would materially prejudice the interests of option holders in relation to options already granted to them under the SAYE Scheme unless the sanction of option holders has been obtained: ii all amendments to the provisions relating to eligibility to participate, the limit on the number of Ordinary shares subject to the Scheme, the maximum entitlement for any one option holder or the basis for determining an option holders entitlement to and the terms of Ordinary shares to be provided and adjustment thereof, if any, in the event of a capitalisation issue, rights issue, subdivision or consolidation of Ordinary shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital to the advantage of option holders will require the prior consent of the Company in general meeting unless they are minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Scheme or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for option holders, the Company or a member of the Group: and iii no amendment shall take effect without the prior approval of the Inland Revenue where such approval is required.
k International The Directors may extend participation in the SAYE Scheme to employees based overseas and may by way of separate schedules modify the Scheme to take account of local tax, regulatory and securities laws.
Design and production Radley Yeldar London Advisers Financial advisers Auditors Deutsche Bank AG KPMG Audit plc 1 Great Winchester Street 8 Salisbury Square London EC2N 2DB London EC4Y 8BB Solicitors Bankers Travers Smith Braithwaite National Westminster Bank plc 10 Snow Hill Tooting Branch London EC1A 2AL 30 Tooting High Street London SW17 0RG Andrew M Jackson & Co PO Box 47 Registrars Essex House Computershare Investor Services plc Hull HU1 1XH PO Box 82 The Pavilions Stockbrokers Bridgwater Road Deutsche Bank AG Bristol BS99 7NH 1 Great Winchester Street London EC2N 2DB KBC Peel Hunt plc 4th Floor 111 Old Broad Street London EC2N 1PH Company Secretary and registered office Mrs Patricia Dregent Amberley House New Road Rainham Essex RM13 8QN Telephone: 01708 525522 Calendar 2004 Annual General Meeting 10 August Pre close of first half trading update 26 October First half ends 30 October Interim results announcement 14 December 2005 Post January sale trading update 1 February Pre close of second half trading update 26 April Year ends 30 April Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Carpetright plc Amberley House, New Road, Rainham, Essex RM13 8QN Telephone: 01708 525522 www.
uk Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2004
