Statement of accounting policies GENERAL Dividends received as scrip dividends are taken to The accounts are prepared in accordance with the revenue account.
The accounting treatment of applicable accounting standards and with the special dividends is considered on a case by case Statement of Recommended Practice Financial basis.
Statements of Investment Trust Companies The fixed returns on debt securities are recognised SORP.
The accounts have been prepared on the on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect their historical cost basis of accounting modified to effective yield.
include the revaluation of fixed asset investments.
MANAGEMENT CHARGE CONSOLIDATION In accordance with the expected long term division Both subsidiary companies make up accounts to of returns, 40% of the investment management fee 31 December and their results for the year ended on for the year is charged to the revenue account and that date are included in the Group results in full.
the other 60% is charged to capital reserves, net of INVESTMENTS incremental corporation tax relief and inclusive of any Listed investments are stated at market value which related irrecoverable value added tax.
Investments in is based upon middle market prices at the balance funds managed by the Investec Group are wholly sheet date.
Realised surpluses or deficits on the excluded from this charge.
disposal of investments and permanent impairments DEFERRED TAXATION in the value of investments are taken to capital Provision is made for taxation at current rates on the reserve-realised and unrealised surpluses and excess of taxable income over expenses.
Where deficits on the revaluation of investments are taken applicable, a provision is made on all timing to capital reserve-unrealised.
Suspended securities differences between the recognition of income in the are included at directors valuation.
financial statements and its recognition in the SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES Companys annual tax returns.
Investments in subsidiary companies are valued at DEBENTURE INTEREST the lower of cost or net asset value, as in the opinion Interest payable is treated on an accruals basis.
In of the directors this most fairly reflects the value of accordance with the expected long term division of the investment.
returns, 40% of the interest for the year is charged INCOME AND EXPENSES to the revenue account and the other 60% is All income and expenses are treated on the accruals charged to capital reserves, net of incremental basis and dividend income is included in revenue corporation tax relief.
when an investment is quoted ex-dividend.
UK dividends are stated net of related tax credits.
