Independent Auditors Report continued Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 31 December 2004 and of the revenue of the Group for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 15 February 2005 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The directors are required by UK Company law to The financial statements are published on the prepare accounts for each financial year that give a www.
com website, which is a website true and fair view of the state of affairs of the maintained by the Companys Investment Manager, Company and Group as at the end of the financial Investec Investment Management Limited Investec.
year and of the total return of the Group for that year.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Investec or any of its subsidiaries is, The directors are responsible for ensuring that so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility suitable accounting policies have been used and of Investec.
The work carried out by the auditors applied consistently and reasonable and prudent does not involve consideration of the maintenance judgements and estimates have been made in the and integrity of this website and accordingly, the preparation of the accounts for the year ended 31 auditors accept no responsibility for any changes December 2004.
The directors also confirm that that have occurred to the financial statements since applicable accounting standards have been followed they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors and that the accounts have been prepared on a to the website need to be aware that legislation in going concern basis.
the United Kingdom governing the preparation and The directors are responsible for keeping proper dissemination of the financial statements may differ accounting records that disclose with reasonable from legislation in their jurisdiction.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group to enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
