TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company law in the United Kingdom requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the return of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable United Kingdom accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Annual Report is available on Franklin Templetons web site.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys information disclosed on this web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the information contained in the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
37 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC We have audited the financial statements on pages 40 to 54.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys shareholders, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys shareholders those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys shareholders as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report, and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Managers Report and Portfolio Review, the Corporate Governance Statement and the Five Year Summary.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we 38 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC continued also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at 30 April 2004 and of its profit for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
RSM Robson Rhodes LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, England 2 July 2004 39
