TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC will be held at The RAC Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS on 21 September 2004 at 12 noon to transact the following business: Ordinary Business Resolution No.
To receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Reports and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2004.
To elect Sam L Ginn as a Director.
To elect Peter C Godsoe as a Director.
To elect Sir Ronald Hampel as a Director.
To elect Andrew S B Knight as a Director.
To elect Peter Smith as a Director.
To re-elect Charles B Johnson as a Director.
To re-elect Geoffrey A Langlands as a Director.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 April 2004.
To re-appoint RSM Robson Rhodes LLP as Auditors.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
Special Business To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions: 13.
Special Resolution That: a for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of the said Section 80 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,690,300 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the date of the notice of this meeting during the period from the date of the passing of this resolution up to the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, at which time such authority will expire except that the Company may before the expiry of such period make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after the expiry of such period and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired and provided that the authority hereby conferred shall be in addition to and without prejudice to any previous authority to allot relevant securities conferred upon the Directors: b that the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the said Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the said Act pursuant to the authority conferred upon them by this resolution as if Section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that the power conferred by this resolution shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in aggregate 5,690,300 being an amount equal to 5% of the existing issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the date of the notice of this meeting and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual 56 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution unless renewed or extended prior to or at such Meeting except that the Company may, before the expiry of any power contained in this resolution, make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and provided that any allotment of securities pursuant to this resolution shall be at a price exceeding the fully diluted net asset value of the security concerned on the business day prior to the date of allotment.
Special Resolution That the Company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the said Act of shares provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 68,283,573: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be 25 pence: iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be not more than 5% above the average of the market value of the shares for the 5 business days before the purchase is made: and iv unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
Special Resolution That new Articles of Association be adopted in the form presented to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purposes of identification.
Ordinary Resolution That the Company shall continue in being as an investment trust for the period expiring at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009.
By Order of the Board Registered Office Exchange Tower 19 Canning Street Edinburgh EH3 8EG Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 2 July 2004 57 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC NOTICE OF MEETING continued Notes: 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote thereat instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A proxy form must be returned to the Companys registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA to arrive not later than 12 noon on 19 September 2004.
The Report and Financial Statements are circulated to Ordinary Shareholders and Warrantholders, but only Ordinary Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting.
Copies of the letters of appointment of the Directors and the existing and proposed Articles of Association of the Company are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at Exchange Tower, 19 Canning Street, Edinburgh EH3 8EG and at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
The Dress Code of the RAC Club requires that gentlemen must wear a shirt with collar and tie.
No jeans or trainers are permitted and ladies must wear smart business attire.
Electronic proxy appointment for CREST members for UK only CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 21 September 2004 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Electronic proxy appointment for non-CREST members for UK only Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the Internet can do so through the Lloyds TSB Registrars website at www.
co. uk where full instructions on the procedure are given.
The personal reference number, card ID and account number printed in the voting pack will be required to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Lloyds TSB Registrars on-line portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on Company Meetings.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 12 noon on 19 September 2004.
Please note that any electronic communication found to contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
58 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Adoption of new Articles of Association The proposed new Articles of Association have been prepared to take account of developments in the law and practice applicable to the Company.
The following summary highlights the key changes from the existing Articles of Association.
Limit on ordinary remuneration of Directors Article 75 of the current Articles of association provides that the ordinary remuneration of the Directors shall not in aggregate exceed 100,000 per annum or such other sum as may from time to time be determined by an Ordinary Resolution of the Company.
The proposed new Articles of Association do not include this limit.
The Directors believe that levels of remuneration and the number of Directors will vary over time.
Accordingly, the Directors do not believe this restriction should be included in the Articles of Association of the Company.
The Directors remuneration will continue to be fully reported in the Annual Report and Accounts each year and included in the Directors Remuneration Report laid before each Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Removal of power of the Directors to pay gratuities and pensions The Directors are all non-executives.
Accordingly, the provisions allowing the Directors to pay and agree to pay gratuities, pensions or other retirement, superannuation, death or disability benefits to or to any person in respect of any Director or ex-Director have been removed from the proposed Articles of Association.
Appointment of the Directors as holders of executive office Article 80 A of the current Articles of Association provides that the Directors may from time to time appoint one or more of their body to be the holder of any executive office including, where considered appropriate, the office of Chairman or Deputy Chairman.
The Directors are all appointed on a non-executive basis and the word executive has been removed from the proposed Articles of Association on the basis that the appointments made by the Company are expected to be of a non-executive nature.
Annual re-election of Directors of 70 years of age and more The Articles of Association of the Company provide that any statutory provisions which would otherwise render any person ineligible for appointment as a Director or liable to vacate office as a Director on account of reaching any specific age or of requiring special notice or any other special formality in connection with the appointment of any Director over a specified age, shall not apply to the Company.
The proposed Articles of Association provide that Directors shall retire from office and may offer themselves for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting commencing next after they attain the age of 70.
Alternate Directors The current Articles of Association provide that the Directors may appoint alternate Directors to attend and vote at meetings on their behalf.
In light of the size of the Board, the Directors do not believe that it is necessary to retain this flexibility and the proposed Articles of Association do not include this provision.
59 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING continued 6.
Electronic communications The provisions regarding electronic communication have been expanded to include additional ways of communicating with shareholders, such as publishing notices or documents on a web site.
Signing of documents The proposed new Articles of Association allow for the signing of documents by a member or other person electronically as long as the document incorporates the electronic signature or personal identification details of that member or other person in such form as the Directors may approve.
CREST regulations relating to shareholders meetings The proposed new Articles of Association enable holders of shares in CREST to receive shareholders meeting announcements and results and to appoint and instruct proxies electronically through CREST, pursuant to CREST proxy voting service introduced in January 2003.
The CREST proxy system is additional to and does not replace or supersede any existing system, electronic or paper, that is already available to shareholders.
