Corporate Governance continued known internal control failures.
Steps will continue to be increasingly important role in global economic activity and taken to embed the system of internal control and risk the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a management into the operations and culture of the companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of Company and of its key suppliers.
government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing damage to its business or reputation.
The Company delegates to third parties most of its operations and does not employ any staff: therefore it does The Companys policy remains the long term maximisation not itself have an internal audit function.
The Board will of shareholders total return.
continue to monitor its system of internal control in order to Environmental Policy provide assurance that it operates as intended and the In respect of the direct property portfolio, there is an directors will review from time to time whether a function environmental assessment prior to purchase to identify equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
possible contamination or materials considered Exercise of Voting Powers environmentally harmful.
Remedial action is taken where The Board has approved a corporate governance voting appropriate.
Tenants are encouraged to pursue their own policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice environmental procedures.
whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
Statement of Compliance Socially Responsible Investment The directors consider that the Company has complied Good corporate governance extends to a companys policies throughout the year ended 31 March 2004, and up to the on the environment, employment, human rights and date of this report, with all the relevant provisions set out in community relationships.
Corporations are playing an Section 1 of the Code.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts The directors are required by UK company law to prepare preparation of the accounts for the year ended 31 March accounts for each financial year that give a true and fair 2004.
The directors also confirm that applicable accounting view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group standards have been followed and that the accounts have as at the end of the financial year and of the net revenue been prepared on a going concern basis.
of the Group for that period.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have records, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and been used and applied consistently and that reasonable and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
