Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2 and 3: Remuneration Report, Accounts Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing & Dividend net asset value per share, this will enhance the net asset These are the resolutions which deal with the approval of value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore the directors remuneration report, the presentation of the intended that purchases would only be made at prices audited accounts and the declaration of the final dividend.
Your Board considers that it will be The vote to approve the remuneration report is advisory only most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be and will not require the Company to alter any arrangements able to make such purchases as and when it considers the detailed in the report should the resolution not be passed.
timing to be favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
Resolution 4: Re-election of Director This resolution deals with the re-election of Mr R A Stone The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury as a Director.
Under the Articles of Association, he is Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations came into required to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
The Regulations enable Mr Stone has confirmed that he will stand for re-election.
companies in the United Kingdom to hold any of their own shares they have purchased as treasury stock with a view Resolutions 5 and 6: Auditors to possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling These deal with the re-appointment of the Auditors, Ernst & them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, Young LLP, and the authorising of the directors to the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the determine their remuneration.
The shares so repurchased will continue to be cancelled.
Resolution 7: Authority to make Market Purchases of the Companys own Shares The rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the price which At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 28 January may be paid by the Company to 105% of the average 2004, a special resolution was proposed and passed, giving middle-market quotation for an ordinary share on the the directors authority, until the conclusion of the Annual 5 business days immediately preceding the date of the General Meeting in 2004, to make market purchases of the relevant purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will Companys own issued ordinary shares up to a maximum of be 25p per ordinary share being the nominal value.
53,127,001 representing approximately 14.99% of the Also these rules limit a listed company to purchases of issued share capital as at 16 December 2003, the date of shares representing up to 15% of its issued ordinary the Notice of the EGM for cancellation.
This authority will share capital through the market pursuant to a general expire at this years Annual General Meeting.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to Your Board is proposing that they should be given renewed 53,127,001 ordinary shares being approximately authority to purchase ordinary shares in the market.
Your 14.99% of the ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Board believes that to make such purchases in the market Notice of AGM.
The authority will last until the Annual at appropriate times and prices is a suitable method of General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 or, enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would, within if earlier, 18 months from the passing of the resolution.
guidelines set from time to time by the Board, make either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market A special resolution is one that requires a majority of at conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the least 75% of those present and voting to be passed.
