Directors and other Information Directors Secretary A Ross Goobey Chairman Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, C M Burton represented by J S Ellman-Brown ACIS J H M Newsum Registrar P L Salsbury Computershare Investor Services PLC R A Stone PO Box 82 The Pavilions Registered Office Bridgwater Road 4 Broadgate Bristol BS99 7NH London EC2M 2DA Telephone: 0870 702 0010 Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Facsimile: 020 7818 1819 Registered Auditor Ernst & Young LLP Registered Number 1 More London Place Registered as an investment company in England and London SE1 2AF Wales No.
84492 Stockbrokers Investment Manager UBS Investment Bank Henderson Global Investors Limited, authorised and 1 Finsbury Avenue regulated by the Financial Services Authority London EC2M 2PP Fund Manager: Solicitors C M Turner MRICS Slaughter and May Deputy Manager: One Bunhill Row M A Phayre-Mudge MRICS London EC1Y 8YY Finance Manager: J L Elliott ACA Direct Property Portfolio Manager: J F K Wilkinson MRICS Investor Relations Manager: M I L Vickery 52 TR Property Investment Trust TR Property Investment Trust plc Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan The Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan offers a simple and flexible way of investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
The Share Plan offers the following: Contents Regular savings from 50 per month quarter, or lump sum investments from 500 and additional top-up from 100 Directors Review An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your Contents bank or building society account 1 Highlights of the Year and Dividend 2 Profile All paperwork and documentation is simplified and reduced to a minimum 3 Financial Highlights and Performance Information Half yearly valuations with consolidated tax certificate and complimentary newsletters 4 Chairmans Statement 8 Managers Report Henderson ISA 16 Twenty Largest Equity Investments You can invest directly in TR Property Investment Trust plc through the Henderson ISA.
The 18 Investment Properties ISA offers the following: Directors Report Tax free income and tax free growth 20 Directors and Management Regular savings from 100 per month or lump sum investments from 2,000 22 Directors Remuneration Report 23 Report of the Directors An income reinvestment facility.
Alternatively, you can have dividends paid to your 26 Corporate Governance bank or building society account 28 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts Half yearly valuations, reports and complimentary newsletters Accounts Both Mini and Maxi ISAs available for investment by lump sum or regular savings 29 Report of the Independent Auditors 30 Group Statement of Total Return Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA 31 Group and Company Balance Sheets A Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA allows you to transfer your existing PEP or ISA funds into the 32 Group Cash Flow Statement Trust.
Investments retain their tax-efficient status during and after transfer.
33 Notes to the Accounts 47 Notice of Annual General Meeting 48 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Please remember that the value of your investment can fall as well as rise and you may not get Shareholder Information back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the 49 General Shareholder Information and Glossary of Terms value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
52 Directors and other Information Inside Back Cover Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan Henderson ISA Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA Further Information Please consult our website www.
com or write to Henderson Global Investors, FREEPOST, Newbury RG14 2ZZ.
Alternatively, please contact your professional adviser for further information or call our Investor Services Department on freephone 0800 832 832 quoting the reference REPORT.
Please call 44 20 7818 1818 if you are telephoning from abroad.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc, Henderson Investment Management Limited and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, provide investment products and services.
We may record telephone calls for our mutual protection and to improve customer service.
TR Property Investment Trust plc 2004 Annual Report & Accounts HGI5994 2004 TR Property Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004 TR Property Investment Trust plc is managed by Printed by Park Communications, London
