Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the One Hundredth Annual e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the General Meeting of TR Property Investment Trust plc will conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the be held at 4 Broadgate, London, EC2M 2DA on Monday Company in 2005 or, if earlier, 18 months from the 26 July 2004 at 12 noon for the following purposes: passing of this resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry enter into a contract to Ordinary Business purchase Shares under which such purchases will or 1 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the may be completed or executed wholly or partly after year ended 31 March 2004. the expiration of this authority and may make a 2 To receive the Report of the Directors and the audited purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
accounts for the year ended 31 March 2004.
By order of the Board 3 To declare a final dividend of 1.40p per ordinary share.
4 To re-elect Mr R A Stone as a director.
J S Ellman-Brown ACIS Henderson Secretarial Services Limited 5 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Secretary Company.
3 June 2004 6 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Notes 1 Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Special Business Regulations 2001, only those shareholders registered in To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following the register of members of the Company at 7.00pm on resolution as a special resolution: 24 July 2004 shall be entitled to attend and or vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number of 7 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section entries on the relevant register of securities after that time 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make on 24 July 2004 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
In the market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be capital of the Company Shares on such terms and accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint in such manner as the Directors may from time to time holders and, for this purpose, seniority shall be determined determine provided that: by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised 2 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting to be purchased shall be 53,127,001 being 14.99% is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at 3 June on a poll, to vote on his her behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
The number of votes cast 2004, the date of this Notice of Annual General by proxy for each resolution will be communicated to Meeting : shareholders at or following the AGM and will be available b the maximum price exclusive of expenses at on request.
3 A form of proxy is enclosed and to be valid must be lodged which a Share may be purchased shall not exceed with the Registrar of the Company not less than 48 hours 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market before the time fixed for the meeting.
Completion and return quotations for the Shares as taken from the of a form of proxy will not preclude a shareholder from London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the attending and voting in person.
five business days immediately preceding the date 4 This notice is sent for information only to holders of debentures issued by Trust Union Finance 1991 PLC.
of purchase: 5 The Register of Directors Interests kept by the Company in c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which accordance with Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 may be paid for a Share shall be 25p, being the will be open for inspection at the AGM.
6 By attending the meeting, members and their proxies and nominal value per Share: representatives are understood by the Company to have d the authority hereby conferred is in substitution for confirmed their agreement to receive any communications and not in addition to the authority granted to the including communications relating to the Companys securities made at the meeting.
Company to make market purchases of Shares at 7 The Registered Office of the Company is 4 Broadgate, the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company London EC2M 2DA.
held on 28 January 2004: and TR Property Investment Trust 47
