General Shareholder Information continued Release of Results The half year results are announced in early December.
The full year results are announced in early June.
Annual General Meeting The AGM is held in London in July.
Dividend Payment Dates Dividends are paid on the ordinary shares as follows: Interim : early January Final : late July Dividend Payments Dividends can be paid to ordinary shareholders by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the address is given on page 52 of this report to give their instructions: these must include the bank account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank to which payments are to be made.
Share Price Listings The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published daily in The Financial Times.
Some of the information is published in other leading newspapers.
The Financial Times also shows figures for the estimated net asset values and the discounts applicable.
Share Price Information The ISIN code SEDOL Stock Exchange Daily Official List number of the Companys ordinary shares is GB0009064097 0906409.
Other sources include Bloomberg TRY.
L. Internet Details of the market price and net asset value of the shares can be found at www.
co. uk on the Companys website.
Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check their holdings with the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, via www.
Please note that to gain access to your details on the Computershare site you will need the holder reference number stated on the top left hand corner of your share certificate.
Disability Act Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents issued by the Company are available from the company secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator, by dialling 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
For investors through the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan, Henderson ISA or Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA, a textphone telephone service is available on 020 7850 5406.
This service is available during normal business hours.
50 TR Property Investment Trust General Shareholder Information continued Nominee Share Code Where notification has been provided in advance, the Company will arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited to do so by the Chairman.
Investors in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan, Henderson ISA and Henderson Transfer PEP or ISA receive all shareholder communications.
A letter of direction is provided to facilitate voting at general meetings of the Company.
Capital Gains Tax The value for CGT purposes of the Companys shares on 31 March 1982, the start of indexation allowance for inflation, is shown below.
Ordinary shares of 25p each 11.828p Warrants issued 1994 3.775p For shareholders who acquired ordinary shares through the conversion of C Shares on 7 July 1994 the adjusted cost of the new shares for CGT purposes is 40.143p per share.
Warrants issued to C shareholders have a base cost for CGT purposes of 12.811p per warrant.
Adjusted for share issues The Finance Act 1998 included provisions which made considerable changes to the way that chargeable gains are calculated for non-corporate shareholders in respect of disposals made on or after 6 April 1998.
From that date pooling no longer applies and disposals are matched against shares acquired in the following order: same date acquisitions: acquisitions within the following 30 days: previous acquisitions on or after 6 April 1998 using last in first out basis : any shares held in the pool as at 5 April 1998: any shares held in the pool as at 5 April 1982: any shares acquired before 6 April 1965: and any shares acquired subsequent to the disposal.
For disposals on or after 6 April 1998 indexation is still allowed but only up to April 1998.
The Finance Act changes apply a taper relief to the amount of the chargeable gains on these disposals.
The taper is 5% for each complete year of ownership after the first two complete years, with a maximum reduction of 40% after ten complete years.
In calculating the taper relief, assets held before 17 March 1998 qualify for an extra year.
The way that chargeable gains are calculated for companies remains under review by the Inland Revenue and for the time being pooling remains.
The special rules that previously applied to shareholders disposing of shares, who had purchased their shares through the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan on a monthly basis, was withdrawn by the Inland Revenue for savings commenced on or after 6 April 1998.
When savings commenced before 6 April 1998, the simplified basis will still apply for acquisitions during the investment trusts accounting period ended before 6 April 1999 which in the case of TR Property is 31 March 1999.
The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on personal circumstances.
The above information is of a general nature and is not exhaustive.
If you are in any doubt about your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact your professional adviser.
