Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ninety-seventh Annual General b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may Meeting of Witan Investment Trust plc will be held at Drapers be paid for an Ordinary Share is 25p: Hall, Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2 on Thursday 31 March 2005 at 2.30 pm for the following purposes: c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share taken from the Ordinary Business London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five 1 To receive the directors report and the audited accounts for business days immediately preceding the day on which the the year ended 31 December 2004.
Ordinary Share is purchased, or such other amount as may be specified by the UK Listing Authority from time to time: 2 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2004. d the authority hereby conferred will expire at the 3 To declare a final dividend.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2006 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 18 months from the 4 To re-elect Mr H M Henderson as a director of the Company.
passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed 5 To re-elect Mr C G Clarke as a director of the Company.
prior to such time: and 6 To re-elect Mr R W C Colvill as a director of the Company.
e the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary 7 To re-elect Mr A W Jones as a director of the Company.
Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed 8 To re-elect Mr R H McGrath as a director of the Company.
wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and 9 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any Company.
10 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
By order of the Board G S Rice For and on behalf of Special Business Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, To consider and, if thought t, pass resolution 11 as an Secretary ordinary resolution and resolution 12 as a special resolution: 14 February 2005 11 THAT the aggregate of all fees paid to the directors shall not exceed the sum of 250,000 per annum.
Registered Ofce 12 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and 4 Broadgate unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 166 London EC2M 2DA of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to make market Telephone: 020 7638 5757 purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Registered as an investment company in England and Wales Ordinary Shares, provided that: No.
101625 a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 50,064,642 representing approximately 14.99% of the Ordinary Shares in issue at 14 February 2005, the date of this Notice of Annual General Meeting : 48 PRINCES STREET F I N S POULTRY B GRESHAM ST. WORMWOOD STREET LIVERPOOL STREET U LONDON WALL R LOTHBURY CORNHILL Y LEADENHALL STREET Notes 1 Only those ordinary shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company at close of business on 29 March 2005 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after close of business on 29 March 2005 will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
2 An ordinary shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote on his or her behalf.
Such proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Every ordinary shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting of the Company, and every person not being himself or herself a member entitled to vote who is present as proxy for a member entitled to vote, shall have one vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every 1 nominal value of shares held by him or her.
Accordingly, on a poll each ordinary shareholder has one vote for every four shares held.
3 A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid the form of proxy must be completed and deposited at the ofce of the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
The return of the form of proxy duly completed will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person at the meeting.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the Companys agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting i. e. by 2.30 pm on Tuesday 29 March 2005.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
4 This notice is sent for information only to holders of the preference shares and the debenture stock who are not entitled to attend or vote at the meeting.
5 The register of directors interests, kept by the Company in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, and the Chief Executive Ofcers service agreement will be available for inspection at the meeting.
6 By attending the meeting, members and their proxies and representatives are understood by the Company to have confirmed their agreement to receive any communications including communications relating to the Companys securities made at the meeting.
Annual General Meeting Venue Liverpool St Location of Drapers Hall Moorgate Drapers Hall is located in Throgmorton Avenue in the City of London.
It is a few minutes walk from Liverpool Street Station and from Bank and Drapers Moorgate Underground Stations.
Hall Please use the Throgmorton Street entrance.
THROGMORTON STREET Bank The Annual General Meeting will be held on Thursday 31 March 2005 at 2.30 pm.
49 C T E I E R R THREADNEEDLE STREET C T S U S L E L T O L D B R O A D T S T R E A E G A S BISHO P H IRONMONGER LANE OLD JEWRY MOORGATE COLEMAN STREET BLOMFIELD STREET G N THROGMORTON AVE I S A B
