Marketing Review Witans marketing objectives are to promote awareness of the Trust and James Budden stimulate demand for its shares.
As in 2003 the latter goal proved harder to reach than the former.
Private investors make up the core of Witans shareholders and they continued to shun equity investment during 2004.
Their memories hark back to 2001 2 but an opportunity has been missed by these investors.
Despite outperforming the average global unit trust by a country mile, investment trusts like Witan were ignored by professional investors whose thinking still tends to be dominated by historic issues.
Jump, the savings fund for children, had another outstanding year with plan sales rising by 10% year on year.
In contrast, ISAs have become less popular as a means of saving.
This seems a harsh reaction as they remain attractive and tax efficient for higher rate tax payers who make up the majority of equity investors.
While Witan maintained a steady level of activity for most of 2004, the autumn bought an increase as it unveiled its new multi-manager proposition.
Witans best of breed approach improves its offering as a core holding to the private investor.
Also, it provides unique multi-management for the professional adviser at an unparalleled price.
Thirdly the discretionary portfolio manager can at last see a clearly differentiated investment vehicle worth supporting.
The launch of Witan as a multi-manager fund was communicated across the investment market place and to the shareholder base.
The Child Trust Fund was a product initiative of interest to Witan, which the Chancellor referred to at regular intervals during 2004.
This product was launched early in 2005.
However, the Treasury chose to exclude investment trusts on the grounds of the bid offer spread failing to give the customer a single price.
This is a pity, as many investors in Jump will testify, because global investment trusts are an ideal solution at a competitive price.
Marketing Strategy 2005 The main aim of Witans marketing activity during 2005 is to communicate the Trusts new proposition to its target markets.
Witans blend of unique investment talent, hitherto unavailable to the UK retail market, with a low charging structure is a strong message for investors both private and professional.
Success in spreading this word allied to good performance should bring about a narrowing of the Trusts discount and improve returns for shareholders.
Jump faces the challenge of the Child Trust Fund during 2005.
Despite being excluded from the product range, rising public awareness of this method of saving will extend the size of the market as a whole.
Jump will step forward as an alternative or supplementary to the Child Trust Fund offering as it does more scope to the investor.
Once again Witan will look to grow awareness of its proposition through use of cartoons in popular and cerebral magazines and its sponsorship of the RHS, Chemmy Alcott Britains top female skier and Tommys the baby charity.
In the case of the RHS, the Trust is supporting the creation of a range of urban gardens at Wisley in Surrey.
Additionally, Witans marketing activity continues to cover the following areas: Advertising the share price and net asset value in national papers and journals Publishing the net asset value daily 46 Facilitating the involvement of nominee shareholders Witanwisdom There are a variety of ways to invest in Witan.
Naturally, Membership of the Association of Investment Trust Witans shares can be traded easily on the stock market.
Companies However, bearing in mind the benets of income reinvestment, regular savings and tax free wrappers, one of Witans Support of AITC marketing initiatives investment plans may be the answer.
During 2005 the Board will use key performance indicators to Witan Share Plan is a straightforward savings scheme measure the success of Witans marketing strategy.
Whilst the with minimum lump sum investment from 500 and application of the marketing mix will be creative and regular savings from 50 per month.
innovative, emphasis will be placed on ensuring cost effective responses across all activities.
The marketing budget is xed Witan ISA enables investors to save tax free up to a annually and expenditure is kept under close review.
The minimum lump sum budget for 2005 is expected to be similar to that for 2004. investment is 2,000 with regular savings from 50 per month.
Marketing Rationale It is the cumulative effect of the marketing process that adds Witan Transfer PEP allows investors to transfer all value for shareholders.
Such activity stimulates demand for or any number of their existing PEP holdings into Witan.
This in turn guarantees a level of liquidity which The transfer is free except for 0.5% stamp duty and boosts the share price and allows shareholders to purchase and investments retain their tax free status during and sell shares at a price reecting the performance and rating of after transfer.
The presence of liquidity for investment trust shares is Witan Simple Contribution Pension provides the increasingly important in a ckle marketplace where demand opportunity to claim up to 792 in tax benefit from the can drop, discounts slip and price spreads widen.
It is a stakeholder type pension which can be opened on behalf of another person, including non-earners.
Jump gives parents, grandparents or other adults the chance to save effectively for children over the long term.
Minimum lump sum investment is set at 100 and regular contributions can be made from as little as 25 a month or quarter.
Call free on 0800 832 832 for product information and guidance.
com for all the latest news and views and the opportunity to access plan application forms.
Please remember that the value of an investment and the income from it can fall as well as rise as a result of market and currency uctuations and you may not get back the amount originally invested.
Tax assumptions may change if the law changes and the value of tax relief will depend upon your individual circumstances.
Henderson Global Investors is the name under which Henderson Global Investors Limited, Henderson Investment Funds Limited, Henderson Fund Management plc, Henderson Investment Management Limited and Henderson Administration Limited all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority provide investment products and services.
