Shareholder Information Points of Contact Nominee Share Code If you have any questions or need more information Where notication has been received in advance, Witan concerning Witan, you may contact us in the following ways: will provide the operators of nominee accounts with copies of shareholder communications for distribution to their Freephone: customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings Henderson Investor Services on 0800 832 832 and speak at them when invited to do so by the Chairman.
Website: Capital Gains Tax www.
com The calculation of the tax on chargeable gains will depend on your personal circumstances.
If you are in any doubt about Post: your personal tax position, you are recommended to contact For Share Plan Jump queries: your professional adviser.
The Share Plan Administrators Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland Disability Act PO Box 28448 Copies of this annual report and other documents FREEPOST KE 5906 issued by Witan Investment Trust plc are available from the Edinburgh Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in EH4 1ZQ a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
For PEP ISA queries: Henderson Investment Management Limited You can contact our Registrar, Computershare Investor Block C Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech Western House and hearing impaired people who have their own textphone to Lynch Wood Business Park contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate Peterborough operator.
Specially trained operators are available during PE2 6BP normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator Points of Reference provided by The Royal National Institute for Deaf People, You can follow the progress of your savings through the you should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish newspapers.
Witans share price appears daily in the national to dial.
press stock exchange listings under Investment Trusts or Investment Companies.
For investors who hold shares through the Witan Share Plan, PEP or ISA a textphone telephone service is available on The London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List SEDOL code is 020 7850 5406.
This service is available during normal 0974406. business hours.
If you invest through the Witan Share Plan, ISA or PEPs you will be sent a valuation of your Plan every April and October, together with a newsletter containing a comprehensive market review and general articles of interest.
Every February you will receive the annual report for Witan, together with an invitation to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting.
An interim report is despatched every September.
For details on the ways to invest and save in Witan, please see Witanwisdom on page 47 of this document.
Registrar Auditors Solicitors Stockbroker Computershare Investor Deloitte & Touche LLP Herbert Smith Cazenove & Co. Ltd Services PLC Stonecutter Court Exchange House 20 Moorgate PO Box 82 1 Stonecutter Street Primrose Street London EC2R 6DA The Pavilions London EC4A 4TR London EC2A 2HS Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Telephone: 0870 702 0010 50
