qxd 16 3 05 12:02 am Page 81 Information for shareholders Financial calendar The Centrica FlexiShare service Ex-dividend date for 2004 final dividend 27 April 2005 Record date for 2004 final dividend 29 April 2005 Annual general meeting, Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre By transferring your shares into FlexiShare you will benefit from: London SW1 9 May 2005 a lump-sum buy or sell facility FlexiShare participants have the Final dividend payment date 15 June 2005 opportunity to use low-cost share dealing facilities provided by a 2004 interim results announced 15 September 2005 panel of independent brokers: Interim dividend payment date 16 November 2005 dividend reinvestment plan your cash dividend can be used to buy more Centrica shares for a small dealing charge which are then credited to your FlexiShare account: Centrica shareholder helpline quicker settlement periods: and Centricas shareholder register is maintained by Lloyds TSB no certificates to lose.
Registrars, who are responsible for making dividend payments FlexiShare is a corporate nominee, sponsored by Centrica and and updating the register, including details of changes to administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
It is a convenient way to shareholders addresses and purchases or sales of Centrica manage your Centrica shares without the need for a share shares.
If you have a question about your shareholding in certificate.
Your share account details will be held on a separate Centrica, you should contact: register and you will receive an annual confirmation statement.
Participants will have the same rights as all other shareholders.
telephone: 0870 600 3985 Following a review of the service charges, the 10 exit fee has text phone: 0870 600 3950 been abolished.
There is no charge for holding your shares in write to: Lloyds TSB Registrars, the service, nor for transferring in or out at any time.
The Causeway, Worthing, For further details about FlexiShare, please call the Centrica West Sussex BN99 6DA shareholder helpline on 0870 600 3985 or visit email: centrica@lloydstsb-registrars.
Frequent shareholder enquiries Direct dividend payments If you change your address Dividends can be paid automatically into your bank or building Please notify Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing.
If shares are held in society account.
This service has a number of benefits: joint names, the notification must be signed by the first-named there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing shareholder.
A form is also available on our website at in the post: www.
the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is paid directly into the account on the payment date without If you change your name the need to pay in the cheque and wait for it to clear: and Please notify Lloyds TSB Registrars in writing and enclose a copy a single consolidated tax voucher is issued at the end of each of any marriage certificate or change of name deed as evidence.
tax year, in March, in time for your self-assessment tax return.
Having your dividends paid in this way also helps Centrica Lost Centrica share certificate improve its efficiency by reducing postage and cheque clearance If your share certificate is lost or stolen, you should call the costs.
If you wish to register for this service, please call the Centrica shareholder helpline on 0870 600 3985 immediately.
Centrica shareholder helpline on 0870 600 3985 to request a A letter of indemnity will be sent to you to sign.
Lloyds TSB direct dividend payment form.
The form is also on our website Registrars will charge for this service.
Duplicate shareholder accounts Overseas dividend payments If you receive more than one copy of Centrica communications A service has been established to provide shareholders in you may have your shares registered inadvertently in at least two over 30 countries worldwide with the opportunity to receive accounts.
This happens when the registration details of separate Centrica dividends in their local currency.
For a small fixed fee, transactions differ slightly.
If you wish to consolidate such multiple shareholders can have their dividends automatically converted accounts, call the Centrica shareholder helpline on 0870 600 3985 from sterling and paid into their bank account, normally within to request an account combination form.
The form is also five working days of the dividend payment date.
For further available on our website at www.
details, please contact the Centrica overseas shareholder helpline on 44 121 415 7061.
Buying and selling shares in the UK If you wish to trade in Centrica shares, you will need to use Share price information a stockbroker or high street bank which trades on the London As well as using the Centrica website to view details of the current Stock Exchange.
There are many telephone and online services and historical Centrica share price, shareholders can find share available.
If you are selling, you will need to present your share prices listed in most national newspapers.
Ceefax and Teletext certificate at the time of sale.
The FlexiShare service see opposite pages also display share prices that are updated regularly offers a year-round, low-cost dealing service to its participants.
For a real-time buying or selling price, you should contact a stockbroker.
Transferring Centrica shares Transferring shares to someone else requires the completion of a stock transfer form.
This form, and details of the procedure you need to follow, is available from the Centrica shareholder helpline on 0870 600 3985.
Stamp duty is not normally payable if the transfer is to a relative or if there is no money being paid in exchange for the shares.
