qxd 13 3 05 12:15 pm Page 39 Notes to the financial statements AA road services: Membership subscriptions are apportioned 1 Principal accounting policies on a time basis over the period of the membership.
Accounting principles Financial services: Turnover includes interest, fees and The financial statements have been prepared in accordance commissions receivable from financial services activities.
with applicable accounting standards and under the historical Telecommunications: Turnover is recognised on the basis of cost convention and the Companies Act 1985 except for the telephony services provided to customers in the financial period.
accounting policy for energy trading activities.
Further details explaining this departure are contained in note 29 f to the Cost of sales financial statements.
Energy supply includes the cost of gas and electricity produced The group has adopted UITF 17 revised 2003, Employee and purchased, and related transportation, royalty costs and share schemes Revised UITF 17 and UITF 38, Accounting bought in materials and services.
Gas production costs include for ESOP trusts UITF 38, in these financial statements.
The petroleum revenue taxes PRT calculated on a unit of production adoption of each of these standards represents a change in basis, with changes in estimates dealt with prospectively over the accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated remaining lives of gas fields.
Home services cost of sales include accordingly.
Details of the effect of the prior year adjustments are direct labour and related overheads on installation works, repairs given in note 2. and service contracts.
AA road services cost of sales includes AA The accounting policies, where applicable, are in accordance patrol and third-party agents costs, as well as central deployment with the SORP issued by the Oil Industry Accounting Committee costs.
Financial services cost of sales includes finance charges entitled Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration, Development, on working capital facilities used to finance banking receivables Production and Decommissioning Activities.
and interest payable on customer deposits.
Basis of preparation Employee share schemes The group financial statements consolidate the accounts of The group has a number of employee share schemes, detailed the company, all of its subsidiary undertakings and incorporate in the directors report on page 23 to 24 and on page 28. the results of its share of all joint ventures and associates.
The As permitted by Revised UITF 17, the group does not recognise results of undertakings acquired are consolidated from the date the difference between market value and option price to the group gains control.
No profit and loss account is presented employees in relation to the UK and Irish sharesave schemes for the company as permitted by Section 230 3 of the Companies within the profit and loss account, on the basis that the schemes Act 1985. are offered to all employees in those countries.
The cost of The Consumers Waterheater Income Fund has been potential share awards under the groups long term incentive consolidated as a quasi-subsidiary in accordance with FRS 5 scheme is charged to the profit and loss account over the period Reporting the Substance of Transactions.
to which the performance criteria of each allocation relates.
Cost A joint venture is an entity in which the group has a long-term is defined as the difference between the contribution receivable interest and shares control with one or more co-venturers.
The from employees and the market value at the date of grant.
consolidated financial statements include the group portion of Cost also includes provision for employers National Insurance turnover, operating profit or loss, exceptional items, interest, charges expected to arise at exercise dates.
taxation, gross assets and gross liabilities of the joint venture In accordance with UITF 38 the cost of Centrica shares held the gross equity method.
by the Centrica Employee Share Trust is shown as a deduction An associated undertaking associate is an entity in which the from shareholders funds.
This represents a change in accounting group has a long-term equity interest and over which it exercises policy, as detailed in note 2. significant influence.
The consolidated financial statements include the group portion of the operating profit or loss, Foreign currencies exceptional items, interest, taxation and net assets of associates Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are the equity method.
translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange.
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are translated Turnover into sterling at average rates of exchange for the relevant period.
Turnover represents amounts receivable for goods and services Differences resulting from the retranslation of the opening net provided in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, investment in overseas subsidiary undertakings and from the VAT and other sales-related taxes.
retranslation of the opening net assets and the results of these Energy supply: Turnover is recognised on the basis of energy entities for the year are taken to reserves, and are reported in the supplied during the period.
Turnover for energy supply activities statement of total recognised gains and losses.
includes an assessment of energy supplied to customers between Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings, foreign the date of the last meter reading and the year end unread.
currency swaps and forward exchange contracts used to finance Unread gas and electricity is estimated using historical or hedge foreign currency net investments in overseas subsidiary consumption patterns and is included in accrued energy income undertakings and joint ventures are taken directly to reserves and within debtors.
are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Energy trading: Turnover comprises amounts realised from All other exchange movements are recognised through the profit physical sales of natural gas and electricity recognised in the and loss account.
Storage services: Storage capacity revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst commodity revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
Home services: Where the group has an ongoing obligation to provide services, revenues are apportioned on a time basis and amounts billed in advance are treated as deferred income and excluded from current turnover.
Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 39 CT001 p35 82 vAW.
qxd 13 3 05 12:15 pm Page 40 Notes to the financial statements continued to reflect the constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the 1 Principal accounting policies continued obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under operating leases Intangible fixed assets are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business acquired after 1 January 1998 is included in the balance sheet at cost, less Asset impairments accumulated amortisation and any provisions for impairment.
Intangible and tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairments On the acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking including if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying unincorporated businesses, joint venture or associate, fair values amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment are attributed to the assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill, which is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to represents the difference between the purchase consideration and the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant the fair values of those net assets, is capitalised and amortised income generating unit or disposal value, if higher.
If an asset is on a straight-line basis over a period which represents the directors impaired, a provision is made to reduce the carrying amount to estimate of its useful economic life.
Goodwill which arose on its estimated recoverable amount.
acquisitions after 1 January 1998 is being amortised over periods ranging from 5 to 20 years.
Goodwill which arose prior to 1998 was Investments written off directly to the profit and loss reserve.
If an undertaking Other fixed asset investments are included in the balance sheet is subsequently sold, the appropriate unamortised goodwill or at cost, less any provisions for impairment as necessary.
goodwill written off to reserves is dealt with through the profit Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and and loss account in the period of disposal as part of the gain net realisable value.
Stocks Tangible fixed assets Stocks are valued at the lower of cost or estimated net Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at cost, realisable value.
less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
In the case of investments in customer relationship Take-or-pay contracts management CRM and other technology infrastructure, cost Where payments are made to external suppliers under take-or-pay includes contractors charges, materials, direct labour and directly obligations for gas not taken, they are treated as prepayments attributable overheads.
Capitalisation begins when expenditures and included within debtors.
for the asset are being incurred and activities that are necessary to prepare the asset for use are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases Decommissioning costs when substantially all the activities that are necessary to prepare Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost the asset for use are complete.
Depreciation commences at the of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the point of commercial deployment.
producing lives of fields, and decommissioning storage facilities Freehold land is not depreciated.
Other tangible fixed assets, at the end of the useful life of storage facilities based on price except exploration and production assets, are depreciated on levels and technology at the balance sheet date.
Changes in these a straight-line basis at rates sufficient to write off the cost, less estimates are dealt with prospectively.
When this provision gives estimated residual values, of individual assets over their estimated access to future economic benefits, a decommissioning asset is useful lives.
The depreciation periods for the principal categories recognised.
The decommissioning asset is amortised using the of assets are as follows: unit of production method, based on proven and probable reserves.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in the profit and loss account within the net interest charge.
Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years Plant 5 to 20 years Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Power stations up to 30 years Pensions and other post-retirement benefits are accounted for in Equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years accordance with SSAP 24 Pension Costs.
Additional disclosures Storage up to 28 years are also made in the notes to the financial statements as required under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The cost of providing retirement pensions and other benefits is charged to the profit and Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful economic life.
loss account over the periods benefiting from employees service.
Exploration and production assets are capitalised using The difference between the charge to the profit and loss account the successful efforts method and depreciated from the and the contributions paid to the pension schemes is shown as commencement of production in the fields concerned, using a provision asset in the balance sheet.
The regular pension cost, the unit of production method, based on all of the proven and variations from the regular pension cost and interest are all probable reserves of those fields.
Changes in these estimates charged within employee costs, and the straight-line method are dealt with prospectively.
The net carrying value of fields in is applied for amortising surpluses and interest.
production is compared on a field-by-field basis, with the likely future net revenues to be derived from the estimated remaining Long-term sales contracts commercial reserves.
A provision is made where it is considered Provision is made for the net present cost, using a risk-free discount that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from rate, of expected losses on onerous long-term sales contracts.
The the net present value of future net revenues.
provision is based on the difference between the contracted sales price and the expected weighted average cost of gas.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included Taxation in tangible fixed assets at cost.
The obligations relating to finance Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using included within borrowings.
The interest element of the rental the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the lease term enacted by the balance sheet date.
40 Annual report 2004 Centrica plc CT001 p35 82 vAW.
qxd 13 3 05 12:15 pm Page 41 Energy hedging activities: The group engages in gas, electricity, oil 1 Principal accounting policies continued and weather derivatives to hedge against price exposures arising Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that within the energy supply, procurement and retail operations.
The have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date where derivatives are matched to the specific exposures they are transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax designed to reduce, with gains and losses recognised in the profit in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred and loss account in the same period as the income and costs of at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences the underlying hedged transactions.
between the groups taxable profits and its results as stated in Treasury hedging activities: The group uses interest rate swaps, the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and forward rate agreements, foreign currency swaps and forward losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which exchange contracts to manage exposures to interest rates arising they are recognised in the financial statements.
on underlying debt and cash positions or probable future A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore commitments and foreign exchange risks arising on foreign recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it currency assets and borrowings, forecast foreign currency can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable transactions and the retranslation of overseas net investments.
taxable profits in the foreseeable future from which the reversal of All instruments are used for hedging purposes to alter the risk the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
profile on existing underlying exposures and probable future Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are revalued commitments in line with the groups risk management policies.
unless, by the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps sell the revalued assets and the gain or loss expected to arise on and forward rate agreements are recognised as adjustments to the sale has been recognised in the financial statements.
Deferred tax net interest charge over the term of the contracts.
is not recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely Currency swap agreements and forward exchange contracts than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged are retranslated at the rates ruling in the agreements and to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Resulting gains or losses are offset against foreign Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings exchange gains or losses on the related borrowings or, where of overseas subsidiaries and associates only to the extent that, the instrument is used to hedge a committed future transaction, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as are deferred until the transaction occurs.
Where used to hedge receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in overseas net investments, gains or losses are recorded in the the future has been entered into by the subsidiary or associate.
statement of total recognised gains and losses, with interest Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are recorded in the profit and loss account.
expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences When derivatives, used to manage interest rate risk or to hedge are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have other anticipated cash flows, are terminated before the underlying been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
debt matures or the hedged transaction occurs, the resulting gain or Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
loss is recognised on a basis that matches the timing and accounting treatment of the underlying debt or hedged transaction.
When an Financial instruments anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur or finance debt a Debt instruments is terminated before maturity, any deferred gain or loss that has arisen on the related derivative is recognised in the profit and loss Debt instruments are stated at the amount of net proceeds account, together with any gain or loss on the terminated item.
received after deduction of issue costs, adjusted to amortise any discount or premium evenly over the term of the debt.
b Derivative financial instruments 2 Changes in accounting policy The group uses a range of derivative financial instruments for both The group has implemented UITF 38 from 1 January 2004.
UITF 38 trading purposes and to manage hedge exposures to financial requires own shares held under trust to be deducted in arriving at risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange and energy price shareholders funds.
This represents a change in accounting policy.
risks arising in the normal course of business.
The accounting Previously, own shares held under trust were presented as fixed treatment for these instruments is dependent on whether they asset investments.
Accordingly, own shares held under trust at a are entered into for trading or non-trading hedging purposes.
net book value of 17 million cost 45 million have been A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging reclassified from fixed asset investments to shareholders funds purposes when it alters the risk profile of an underlying exposure resulting in a reduction, of 17 million, to the groups previously of the group in line with the groups risk management policies.
reported net assets at 31 December 2003.
The implementation of In addition, there must be a demonstrable link to an underlying UITF 38 had no material impact on the groups previously reported transaction, pool of transactions or specified future transaction profits and losses.
The representation of own shares as a deduction or transactions.
Specified future transactions must be reasonably from shareholders funds in accordance with UITF 38 is not a certain to arise for the derivative to be accounted for as a hedge.
Comparative figures have been restated A discussion on how the group manages its financial risks in the balance sheet and notes 13, 21, 22, 34, 35, 40 and 41. is included in the group financial review on pages 20 to 21.
The group has also implemented Revised UITF 17 from Derivative financial instruments are accounted for 1 January 2004.
Revised UITF 17 requires the minimum profit and as follows: loss charge to be determined as the intrinsic value of the share Energy trading activities: The group engages in swaps, futures, options granted.
Previously the charge was based on either intrinsic forwards and options in gas, electricity and weather, for trading value or, where purchases of shares were made by an ESOP trust purposes.
Financial and physical trading positions are marked-toat fair value, by reference to the cost of shares available for the market using externally derived market prices.
Marked-to-market award less any contributions payable by the employees.
The gains and losses are recognised immediately in the profit and implementation of Revised UITF 17 had no material impact on the loss account, within cost of sales.
This is a departure from the groups previously reported profits and losses.
Companies Act 1985 as disclosed within note 29 f where the financial impact of the departure is disclosed.
The corresponding fair value debtors or creditors are included within the balance sheet.
