qxd 13 3 05 12:10 pm Page 21 Net debt cash m excluding Goldfish and non-recourse debt 04 03 02 01 00 -600 600 0 financial instrument.
Surplus of its electricity requirement in the groups accounting remain entirely unaffected: cash is invested in short-term from its own sources.
policies, compared to the goodwill, which under UK GAAP is amortised on a financial instruments and only current UK GAAP basis.
deposited with counterparties Weather risk Centrica has had a project straight-line basis over with a minimum credit rating of Gas sales volumes, and to a team in place for over a year, periods up to 20 years, will, A3 Aand P1 A-1 in Moodys lesser extent electricity volumes, comprising senior executives under IFRS, not be amortised Investors Service Standard & are inuenced by temperature from across the group, reporting and so the charge will be Poors long-term and shortand other weather factors.
Their removed from the profit and term ratings respectively.
Energy The weather derivatives market remit has been to assess the loss account.
Instead, goodwill will be subjected to trading activities are undertaken remains relatively immature.
impact of IFRS on the group with counterparties for whom We again entered into a and to manage this complex annual impairment reviews, specic credit limits are set.
number of weather derivative conversion process to ensure and, if impairment shortfalls are identied, will be recorded All contracted and potential transactions for the winter that the groups systems, in the profit and loss account: exposures are reported to the period October 2004 to March processes, procedures and financial risk management 2005 to hedge part of the staff were ready to implement certain power purchase committee of the executive.
groups weather exposure the new standards from arrangements, treated under UK GAAP as executory in Britain.
Commodity price risk IFRS brings the potential contracts, will be reported The key commodity price risks Accounting policies for earnings volatility resulting under IFRS as finance leases and as a result will bring xed facing the group are first, natural The principal accounting from the requirement to markassets and related debt gas and electricity prices both policies are described in note to-market certain of the groups in the short-term market and in 1 and remain unchanged over energy contracts.
In addition liabilities on balance sheet, affecting net debt levels and respect of long-term contracts last year, except for the groups we have identied the following gearing ratios.
and secondly, escalation policy in respect of own shares main areas of impact: Centrica believes it is well indexes on long-term gas held under trust.
This policy the accounting treatment contracts, of which the most has changed in line with the of pensions, where the fair placed to nalise this transition and for internal purposes inuential are oil product prices requirement of UITF 38 and value of scheme assets has reported under IFRS and general price ination.
Revised UITF 17 and is and liabilities will be brought The groups policy is explained in more detail in on to the balance sheet, from the start of 2005.
Externally, we will report to hedge a proportion of the note 2. along with the associated our 2005 interim statements exposure for a number of years The group complies with the deferred tax asset: this will under IFRS and our annual ahead matched to the underlying disclosure requirements of FRS introduce a net liability report and accounts for 2005 proles of our customer energy 17 Retirement Benets, which on to the balance sheet, will be presented under requirements.
The group aims are set out in note 26.
If the similar to that under FRS 17: IFRS conventions.
to manage its risk by using standard had been fully share schemes where costs In keeping with the financial instruments such as adopted in 2004, profit would will be recognised for share Committee of European oil and gas swaps and gas have been increased by options and awards based Security Regulators guidelines, derivatives and bilateral 169 million 2003: 71 million on the fair value rather than we will be making available agreements for gas and power, decrease of which 245 million the intrinsic value under UK our 2004 results, restated as well as asset ownership.
related to the disposal of the GAAP of the awards under IFRS, in advance of The financial risk AA.
Net assets would have calculated at the grant date announcing our 2005 interim management committee been reduced by 558 million using an appropriate option statements.
These will not regularly monitors the extent 2003: 720 million.
pricing model: include the impact of IAS 39 of the groups commodity petroleum revenue tax, on our energy contracts as price exposure and the level Conversion to International which is expected to be the group will take the of hedging taking account Financial Reporting Standards accounted for as a tax exemption from applying this of forward prices and UK listed companies are rather than a cost of sale standard retrospectively.
required to comply with the and the basis of calculation The net gains from trading European regulation to report to change from a unit of in energy derivatives are set consolidated financial production basis, over statements in conformity with out in note 29. the life of the eld, to a Acquisitions, including the International Financial deferred tax approach.
Killingholme, Bastrop and Reporting Standards IFRS This would improve margins Frontera power stations, have from 2005 onwards.
The but increase the effective further contributed to the groups adoption of these standards tax rate, although the timing Phil Bentley strategy to cover a proportion will lead to significant changes of our cash payments will Group Finance Director Annual report 2004 Centrica plc 21
