com Discovery We continue to increase our efficiency in identifying high quality compounds with the potential to become new medicines.
Jan Lundberg, Executive Vice-President, Discovery Research Every new medicine is the result of an Medical research is more exciting than intensive and focused research process.
ever as new technology is applied to We examine closely all the possibilities to understanding what causes disease find the most effective treatment for the and how it may be prevented or treated.
Thousands of Our effort in recent years to improve the compounds are investigated, only a small links between basic science and clinical number succeed.
It is a complex, expensive medicine has helped us to gain a better and risky process taking over 10 years understanding of human diseases and and typically costing around $1 billion, how future medicines will work against but it is an exciting and rewarding one.
We also continue to introduce earlier in the process more stringent, We have a world leading R&D organisation, and where possible high throughput, with over 11,900 people at 11 major centres testing of drug safety and how a medicine in seven countries comprising six joint gets distributed around, and out, of the discovery and development facilities in the human body.
This helps us to eliminate UK, the US and Sweden: a further four earlier the candidate drugs CDs that sites in the US, Canada, India and France are less likely to succeed.
During 2004, which focus only on discovery, and a 18 CDs were selected for development.
facility in Japan for development only.
These resources are complemented by Partnerships clinical development at 43 sites around the In todays world of rapid scientific and world.
We spend around $15 million each technological advance, no company working day in the search for new medicines, can rely exclusively on its own discovery and we are committed to delivering new, and development.
We work with leading medically important and commercially academic centres to broaden the successful products to market every year.
base for disease research and during 2004, we entered into more than 250 Discovery new collaborations, including a major Our Discovery scientists use leading edge strategic alliance with Cambridge science and technologies to identify new Antibody Technology to discover and compounds with high potential as new develop human antibody therapeutics in medicines, working across boundaries inflammatory disorders.
This complements to exchange ideas, to share best practice a similar alliance in cancer research with and to make the most of the efficiencies Abgenix Inc. announced in 2003. that global working offers.
