com Therapy area review sales and further development of Nexium.
Cardiovascular CV We are a world leader in cardiovascular 40% of adults in the western world regularly medicines, with over 40 years experience experience heartburn and between 10 and and a powerful range of products.
Backed 20% have gastro-oesophageal reflux by our quality research, we aim to build disease GERD.
The prevalence of GERD on our strong position, focusing on in Asia is lower, but increasing.
important areas of need such as hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidaemia Nexium continues to establish a new and thrombosis.
improved treatment standard and this was reflected in its global sales, which CV disease accounts for 17 million exceeded $3.8 billion in 2004.
First deaths worldwide each year, making it launched in Sweden in August 2000, the greatest risk to life for most adults.
it is now available in approximately 100 markets, including the US, Canada and Crestor, our new statin for controlling all European countries.
It has been well cholesterol levels, is now approved in 67 received by patients and physicians alike markets and launched in 56, including the and close to 250 million patient treatments US, Canada and the majority of EU countries.
had been administered by the end of By the end of 2004, over 15 million 2004.
Its strong performance in the US prescriptions had been written for, and over makes Nexium the most successful four million patients treated with Crestor.
Public Citizen, a US consumer interest organisation, continued to raise allegations An injectable intravenous formulation concerning the safety of Crestor.
of Nexium is now approved in 47 Clinical trials experience and post-marketing countries, for use when an oral treatment surveillance continue to support our belief of GERD is not appropriate.
In September that Crestor has a safety profile in line with 2004, approval was granted through the other marketed statins.
Clinical trial and postEU Mutual Recognition Procedure for the marketing data for Crestor are publicly use of Nexium in the healing and available on a dedicated website, prevention of ulcers associated with .
com, which we non-steroidal anti-inflammatory launched in September 2004. drug NSAID therapy.
Approval for the reduction in occurrence of gastric ulcers 2004 saw the first launches of Exanta, associated with continuous NSAID our new oral anti-coagulant, for use therapy in patients at risk for developing in preventing blood clots following gastric ulcers was granted in the US orthopaedic surgery in 10 countries.
In October 2004, the FDA confirmed that it did not approve Exanta for Infection marketing in the US for any of the World demand for antibiotics remains indications sought.
Discussions are high due to escalating resistance and ongoing with the FDA to determine the increased risk of serious infections.
whether there is now a realistic prospect Infectious diseases cause more than of bringing Exanta to the US market.
At the end of 2004, we received approval 2004 again saw steady sales growth in the EU, and an approvable letter from globally for Merrem, our antibiotic for the the FDA, for the use of Atacand in heart treatment of serious, hospital-acquired failure, based on the results of a infections.
A Supplementary New Drug comprehensive clinical study programme, Application was filed in the US in 2004 CHARM, which showed significant aimed at securing an indication for skin reduction in the number of deaths and and skin structure infections in 2005. hospitalisations for heart failure in patients treated with Atacand.
Work continues at our research facility in Bangalore, India where we are focused With sales again exceeding $1 billion on finding a new treatment for tuberculosis in 2004, Seloken Toprol-XL is the worlds TB, the single largest cause of adult leading product by sales in the beta death from infectious disease in the world.
blocker plain and in combination with diuretic class.
Neuroscience We aim to deliver a range of life-changing Gastrointestinal GI medicines in three key areas of psychiatry, We aim to maintain our number one position analgesia and neurology, and by maintaining in GI treatments through driving continued our world leading position in anaesthesia.
