AstraZeneca Annual Report and Additional Information 160 Form 20-F Information 2004 Additional Information History and development of the Company Directors are not required to retire at a shareholders.
All other extraordinary general AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in particular age.
meetings require 14 clear days notice.
England and Wales on 17 June 1992 under the Companies Act 1985.
It is a public limited Directors are required to beneficially own For all general meetings, a quorum of two company domiciled in the UK.
The Ordinary Shares in the Company of an shareholders present in person or by proxy Companys registered number is 2723534 aggregate nominal amount of $125.
and its registered office is at 15 Stanhope present, this means they must own at least Gate, London W1K 1LN telephone 44 500 shares.
Shareholders and their duly appointed 0 20 7304 5000.
From February 1993 until proxies and corporate representatives are April 1999, the Company was called Zeneca Rights, preferences and restrictions entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
On 6 April 1999, the Company attaching to shares changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
The share capital of the Company is divided Limitations on the rights to own shares into 2,400,000,000 Ordinary Shares with a There are no limitations on the rights to own The Company was formed when the nominal value of $0.25 each and 50,000 shares.
pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty Redeemable Preference Shares with a chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical nominal value of 1.00 each.
The rights and Industries PLC were demerged in 1993.
In restrictions attaching to the Redeemable 1999, the Company sold the specialty Preference Shares differ from those attaching chemical business.
Also in 1999, the to Ordinary Shares as follows: Company merged with Astra AB of Sweden.
In 2000, it demerged the agrochemical the Redeemable Preference Shares carry business and merged it with the similar no rights to receive dividends: agribusiness of Novartis AG to form a new company called Syngenta AG.
the holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have no rights to receive notices The Company owns and operates numerous of, attend or vote at general meetings R&D, production and marketing facilities except in certain limited circumstances: worldwide.
Its corporate headquarters are at they have one vote for every 50,000 15 Stanhope Gate, London W1K 1LN and its Redeemable Preference Shares held: R&D headquarters are at SE-151 85 Sdertlje, Sweden.
on a distribution of assets of the Company, on a winding-up or other Memorandum and Articles of Association return of capital subject to certain Objects exceptions, the holders of Redeemable As is typical of companies registered in Preference Shares have priority over the England and Wales, the Companys objects, holders of Ordinary Shares to receive the which are detailed in the Memorandum of capital paid up on those shares: and Association, are broad and wide-ranging and include manufacturing, distributing and subject to the provisions of the trading pharmaceutical products.
Companies Act 1985, the Company has the right to redeem the Redeemable Directors Preference Shares at any time on giving Subject to certain exceptions, Directors do not less than seven days written notice.
not have power to vote at Board Meetings on matters in which they have a material Action necessary to change the rights of interest.
shareholders In order to vary the rights attached to any The quorum for meetings of the Board of class of shares, the consent in writing of the Directors is a majority of the full Board, of holders of three quarters in nominal value of whom at least four must be Non-Executive the issued shares of that class or the Directors.
In the absence of a quorum, the sanction of an extraordinary resolution Directors do not have power to determine passed at a general meeting of such holders compensation arrangements for themselves is required.
or any member of the Board.
Annual general meetings and The Board of Directors may exercise all the extraordinary general meetings powers of the Company to borrow money.
Annual general meetings and extraordinary Variation of these borrowing powers would general meetings where a special resolution require the passing of a special resolution of is to be passed or a Director is to be the Companys shareholders.
appointed require 21 clear days notice to Designed by Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd
