com Sales and marketing Key products Key products: Cardiovascular 1 Atacand candesartan cilexetil angiotensin II antagonist for hypertension 2 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor statin for dyslipidaemia Exanta ximelagatran oral direct thrombin inhibitor for prevention of thrombosis in association with major orthopaedic surgery Plendil felodipine calcium antagonist for hypertension and angina Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate beta blocker for hypertension, angina, heart failure and other uses 3 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate angiotensin We aim to build on our success In the US, we aim to effectively converting enzyme inhibitor for hypertension, heart failure and diabetic nephropathy in Europe and Japan, while manage the challenges of the increasing our strength in changing external environment, Key products: Gastrointestinal emerging markets, such as while making the most of the Losec Prilosec omeprazole proton pump inhibitor for acid-related diseases China and Mexico.
opportunities presented by the Nexium esomeprazole magnesium proton pump inhibitor for acid-related diseases Bruno Angelici, growing demand for innovative Executive Vice-President, medicines.
David Brennan, Key products: Infection 4 Merrem Meronem meropenem ultra broad Europe, Japan, Asia Pacific Executive Vice-President, spectrum injectable antibiotic for serious and ROW North America bacterial infection Key products: Neuroscience We combine our global capabilities Toprol-XL and Crestor, with combined Diprivan propofol intravenous general anaesthetic for induction maintenance of anaesthesia and with high quality relationships in our sales of $5.7 billion, continue to underpin sedation of intensive care patients local markets and focus on responding our sales performance in this highly Naropin ropivacaine local anaesthetic quickly and effectively to our customers competitive market.
for surgical anaesthesia and acute pain management changing needs.
We sell mostly through Seroquel quetiapine fumarate atypical our own local marketing companies In Europe, pharmaceutical cost control anti-psychotic for schizophrenia and other and our products are marketed mainly pressure continues to restrict market psychotic disorders Xylocaine lidocaine local anaesthetic for use to physicians and other healthcare growth, which is still increasing but at a in surgery and dentistry professionals.
Despite this background, our Zomig zolmitriptan for the treatment of acute sales growth outpaced the overall market, migraine with or without aura Our medicines are designed to improve with a strong performance from Crestor, health and quality of life.
They bring other Nexium, Seroquel, Arimidex and Symbicort.
Key products: Oncology Arimidex anastrozole aromatase inhibitor benefits too.
We also talk to governments This performance, coupled with our for breast cancer and groups that buy healthcare, such as investment in Central and Eastern Europe, Casodex bicalutamide anti-androgen managed care organisations in the US, provides a solid basis for future growth in for prostate cancer Faslodex fulvestrant oestrogen receptor about the economic as well as the the region.
Sales totalled $7.6 billion in 2004 antagonist with no agonist effects for breast therapeutic advantages of our range.
and AstraZeneca ranks fifth in Europe.
cancer By reducing the incidence of disease Iressa gefitinib signal transduction inhibitor for non-small cell lung cancer or improving the efficiency of treatment, In Japan, AstraZeneca was the second Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate anti-oestrogen our medicines help to relieve the growing fastest growing pharmaceutical company for breast cancer pressure on healthcare systems and in 2004.
A strong performance by Zoladex goserelin acetate LHRH agonist for prostate and pre-menopausal breast cancer, budgets.
Arimidex, Casodex, Zoladex and Iressa, certain benign gynaecological disorders and and good growth for Losec, drove sales assisted reproduction Success in key markets is a top priority.
to $1.4 billion and we now rank 13th by We aim to build on our leading positions sales in Japan.
Key products: Respiratory and Inflammation in major markets, especially the US, Accolate zafirlukast oral leukotriene receptor antagonist for control of asthma Japan and Europe, whilst increasing our Overall sales in Asia Pacific grew by Oxis formoterol inhaled fast onset long-acting strength through strategic investment in an underlying rate of 18% to $1.2 billion bronchodilator for relief of asthma symptoms the small but fast-growing markets of the and the region represents an area of Pulmicort budesonide inhaled anti-inflammatory for asthma control future the emerging economies, high growth potential.
In China, we are Rhinocort budesonide topical nasal such as China and Mexico.
now the largest multi-national prescription anti-inflammatory for control of rhinitis drug company and one of the fastest Symbicort budesonide formoterol inhaled combination of anti-inflammatory and fast onset Our US sales of $9.6 billion in 2004 reflect growing pharmaceutical companies.
long-acting bronchodilator in a single inhaler our commitment to driving growth in this, the worlds largest pharmaceutical market.
Elsewhere, good growth in Latin America 1 Licensed from Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd. With a 5% market share, AstraZeneca is 27% and a $40 million investment in new 2 Licensed from Shionogi & Co. Ltd. 3 the fifth largest pharmaceutical company, manufacturing in Egypt further strengthens Licensed from Merck & Co. Inc. 4 Licensed from Sumitomo Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. by sales in the US.
Nexium, Seroquel, our platform for regional expansion.
