AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2004 109 30 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities 2004 2003 2002 $m $m $m Assets pledged Mortgages and other assets pledged 90 Commitments Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in these accounts 298 421 500 Included in the above total are contracts related to certain product purchase and licence agreements with deferred consideration obligations, the amounts of which are variable depending upon particular milestone achievements.
Sales of the products to which these milestones relate could give rise to additional payments, contingent upon the sales levels achieved.
Guarantees and contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business, for which no security has been given, are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
Commitments In 1982 Astra AB set up a joint venture with Merck & Co. Inc. for the purposes of selling, marketing and distributing certain Astra products in the US.
In 1998, this joint venture was restructured the restructuring.
Under the restructuring, a US limited partnership, in which Merck is the limited partner and AstraZeneca is the general partner, was set up and AstraZeneca obtained control of the joint ventures business subject to certain limited partner and other rights held by Merck and its affiliates.
These rights provide Merck with safeguards over the activities of the partnership and place some limitations over AstraZenecas discretion to operate with complete commercial freedom.
The restructuring agreements provide for the following ongoing payment and termination arrangements: Annual contingent payments Partial Redemption First Option Second Option In addition, included in the assets and liabilities covered by the restructuring is a loan note receivable by AstraZeneca from Merck with a face value of $1.4bn.
Each of these elements is discussed in further detail below.
Under the terms of the 1998 restructuring, the merger in 1999 between Astra and Zeneca triggered two one-time payments from AstraZeneca to Merck: a Lump Sum Payment of $809m, which was charged to the profit and loss account, as a result of which Merck relinquished any claims to Zeneca products: and an Advance Payment of $967m.
This Advance Payment was calculated as the then net present value of $2.8bn discounted from 2008 to the date of payment at a rate of 13% per annum and causes Merck to relinquish any rights, including contingent payments on future sales, to Astra products with no existing or pending US patents at the time of the merger.
As the Advance Payment provides AstraZeneca with relief from future payments on these products and relief from any other potential obligations or restrictions in respect of these products, this amount has been capitalised as an intangible asset and is being amortised over 20 years.
The Advance Payment is subject to a true-up in 2008, as discussed under First Option below.
Annual contingent payments AstraZeneca makes ongoing payments to Merck based on sales of certain of its products in the US the contingent payments on the agreement products.
As a result of the 1999 merger, these contingent payments excluding those in respect of Prilosec and Nexium cannot be less than annual minimum sums between 2002 and 2007 ranging from $125m to $225m.
The payments have exceeded the minimum level in 2002 to 2004 and AstraZeneca has no reason to believe that the annual payments in the future will fall below the minimum obligations.
Partial Redemption In 2008, there will be a partial redemption of Mercks limited partnership interest which will end Mercks interests including rights to contingent payments in respect of certain of the agreement products by distribution to Merck of an amount calculated as a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant products, plus $750m.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements 110 Form 20-F Information 2004 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued First Option In 2008, a calculation will be made of the Appraised Value, being the net present value of the future contingent payments in respect of all agreement products not covered by the Partial Redemption, other than Prilosec and Nexium.
Payment of this amount to Merck in 2008 is, however, contingent on Mercks exercise of the First Option.
Exercise of the First Option will require AstraZeneca to buy out Mercks interest in these products at the Appraised Value.
Should Merck not exercise this option in 2008, AstraZeneca may exercise it in 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised Value.
If neither Merck nor AstraZeneca exercise the option, the contingent payment arrangements in respect of these agreement products will continue as will other potential obligations and restrictions in respect of these products and the Appraised Value will not be paid.
In addition, in 2008 there will be a true-up of the Advance Payment.
The calculation of this will be based on a multiple of the average annual contingent payments from 2005 to 2007 in respect of all the agreement products with the exception of Prilosec and Nexium subject to a minimum of $6.6bn, plus other defined amounts totalling $912m.
It is then reduced by the Appraised Value whether paid or not, the Partial Redemption and the Advance Payment at its undiscounted amount of $2.8bn to determine the true-up amount.
The true-up will be settled in 2008 irrespective of whether the First Option is exercised and this could result in a further payment by AstraZeneca to Merck or a payment by Merck to AstraZeneca.
Should Merck exercise the First Option in 2008, AstraZeneca will make payments in respect of the Partial Redemption, the First Option and the true-up totalling a minimum of $4.7bn.
If AstraZeneca exercises the First Option in 2010, the combined effect will involve a minimum aggregate amount payable to Merck in 2008 and 2010 of the same amount.
Loan Note Receivable In 2008, at the same time as the settlement of the Partial Redemption and the true-up, Merck will settle the loan note receivable by paying AstraZeneca $1.4bn.
Second Option A Second Option exists whereby AstraZeneca has the option to re-purchase Mercks interests in Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This option is exercisable by AstraZeneca two years after the exercise of the First Option, whether the First Option is exercised in either 2008 or 2010.
Exercise of the Second Option by AstraZeneca at a later date is also provided for in 2017 or if combined annual sales of the two products fall below a minimum amount provided, in each case, that the First Option has been exercised.
The exercise price for the Second Option is the fair value of these product rights as determined at the time of exercise.
If the Second Option is exercised, Merck will relinquish all its interests including rights to contingent payments in AstraZeneca products.
Accounting treatment The precise amount of settlements with Merck under the Partial Redemption, the First Option and the true-up of the Advance Payment cannot be determined at this time.
The Partial Redemption and true-up are calculated based, in part, on trading performance between 2005 and 2007, and payment of the First Option is contingent upon Merck or AstraZeneca exercising the First Option.
If Merck exercises the First Option in 2008, the net minimum payment to be made to Merck, being the combined payments of $4.7bn less the repayment of the loan note of $1.4bn, would be $3.3bn.
In accounting for the Restructuring in 1998, the loan note was included in the determination of the fair values of the assets and liabilities to be acquired.
The loan note was ascribed a fair value of zero on acquisition and on the balance sheet because it is estimated that the net minimum payment of $3.3bn equated to the fair value of the trading rights to be acquired under the Partial Redemption and First Option.
It is considered that the payments described under the headings above, including the Second Option, represent the acquisition of future trading rights which will terminate Mercks interests in the agreement products including their rights to contingent payments and which will provide AstraZeneca with unencumbered discretion in our operations in the US market.
Mercks interests will only be terminated as and when the payments are made and, accordingly, the acquisition of these trading rights will only be reflected in the Financial Statements at that point.
The trading rights will be accounted for under the extant guidance when the payments are made, with allocations to intangibles and goodwill, as appropriate.
As noted, the calculation of the purchase price of the trading rights is based partially on the contingent payments made in 2005 to 2007 subject to the minimum amount and is likely to be substantially driven by the sales of Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Atacand.
However, AstraZeneca anticipates that the benefits that will accrue to the Company from these payments will begin to be realised from 2008 onwards based on contributions from those products that have already been launched for example, Rhinocort and Atacand, those that are due to be launched in the US in particular, Symbicort and those that are in development.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2004 111 30 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued The ongoing monitoring of the projected payments to Merck and the value of the related trading rights to AstraZeneca takes full account of changing business circumstances and the range of possible outcomes to ensure that the payments to be made to Merck are covered by the benefits expected to be realised by the Company.
Should the monitoring reveal that these payments exceed the benefits expected to be realised, a provision for an onerous contract will be recognised.
The annual contingent payments on agreement products are expensed as incurred.
Environmental costs and liabilities The Groups expenditure on environmental protection, including both capital and revenue items, relates to costs which are necessary for meeting current good practice standards and legal and regulatory requirements for processes and products.
They are an integral part of normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Groups R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges and are not separated from overall operating and development costs.
There are no known changes in legal, regulatory or other requirements resulting in material changes to the levels of expenditure for 2002, 2003 or 2004.
In addition to expenditure for meeting current and foreseen environmental protection requirements, the Group incurs substantial costs in investigating and cleaning up land and groundwater contamination.
In particular, AstraZeneca and or its affiliates have environmental liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites.
In the US, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Zeneca Inc. and or its indemnitees, have been named as potentially responsible parties PRPs or defendants at approximately 13 sites where Zeneca Inc. is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
Similarly, the AstraZeneca affiliate, Stauffer Management Company LLC SMC, which was established in 1987 to own and manage certain assets of Stauffer Chemical Company acquired that year, and or its indemnitees, have been named as PRPs or defendants at approximately 29 sites where SMC is likely to incur future investigation, remediation or operation and maintenance costs under federal or state, statutory or common law environmental liability allocations schemes.
In Europe and other parts of the world outside the US, AstraZeneca is likely to incur costs at three currently owned sites and has given indemnities to third parties in respect of approximately 45 other sites.
These environmental liabilities arise almost entirely from legacy operations that are not part of our current pharmaceuticals business and, at most of these sites, remediation, where required, is either completed or nearing completion.
In the aggregate, however, significant expenditure on clean up and monitoring is likely to be required.
AstraZeneca has made provisions for the estimated costs of future environmental investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance activity beyond normal ongoing expenditure for maintaining the Groups R&D and manufacturing capacity and product ranges where it is probable that such costs will be incurred and can be estimated reliably.
With respect to such estimated, future costs, there were provisions at 31 December 2004 in the aggregate of approximately $96m, of which approximately $86m relates to the US.
These provisions do not include possible, additional costs that are not currently probable, nor do these provisions include costs that, by agreement, will be borne by viable third party indemnitors.
In addition, these provisions: 1 include, where appropriate, unasserted claims where future costs are nonetheless probable at owned sites, for example : 2 are based, where applicable, on liability allocation or cost sharing agreements that we believe are enforceable against viable third parties: 3 reflect expected insurance recoveries where an insurer has agreed to provide an indemnity: and 4 typically cover a time period of five years with the exception of operation and maintenance activity, which can last for decades.
AstraZeneca is not presently aware of any circumstances or uncertainties regarding the viability of liable third parties, indemnitors or insurers that would cause these provisions to be altered.
It is possible that the Company, or its affiliates, could incur future environmental costs beyond the extent of our current provisions.
The extent of such possible, additional costs is inherently difficult to estimate due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to: 1 the nature and extent of claims that may be asserted in the future: 2 whether the Company or any of its affiliates has or will have any legal obligation with respect to asserted or unasserted claims: 3 the type of remedial action, if any, that may be selected at sites where the remedy is presently not known: 4 the potential for recoveries from or allocation of liability to third parties: and 5 the length of time that the environmental investigation, remediation and liability allocation process can take.
Notwithstanding and subject to the foregoing, it is estimated that potential additional loss, for future environmental investigation, remediation and operation and maintenance activity above and beyond our provisions, could be, in the aggregate, in the order of $20m to $40m.
Legal proceedings AstraZeneca is involved in various legal proceedings considered typical to its businesses, including litigation relating to employment, product liability, commercial disputes, infringement of intellectual property rights and the validity of certain patents.
The more significant matters are discussed below.
Crestor rosuvastatin AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and or AstraZeneca LP in the US have been served with two individual lawsuits involving alleged injury in association with the use of Crestor.
In addition, a motion for authorisation to institute a class action and to be a representative was filed in Quebec, Canada against AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Canada Inc..
The petitioner claims alleged injury as a result of the use of Crestor.
AstraZeneca is vigorously defending all such claims and lawsuits.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements 112 Form 20-F Information 2004 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued Diprivan propofol In August 2002, AstraZeneca LP received a letter from ESI Lederle, a division of Wyeth, informing AstraZeneca of Wyeths intention to market a generic version of Diprivan prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the current formulation.
AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Wyeth in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
Through a series of transactions, the holder of the relevant Abbreviated New Drug Application ANDA and now defendant in AstraZenecas suit is Mayne Pharma USA Inc. formerly called Faulding Pharmaceutical Co.. Mayne responded to AstraZenecas complaint and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability.
Discovery and claim construction took place during 2004 and the trial is expected to commence in February 2005.
AstraZeneca maintains that its patents are valid, enforceable and infringed by Maynes propofol product.
If the court finds that AstraZenecas patents are valid, enforceable and infringed by Maynes propofol product, AstraZeneca will seek an injunction preventing the manufacture, use, sale and offering for sale in the US of Maynes propofol product.
Under the ANDA statute, the FDA may not approve Maynes propofol product before February 2005.
Exanta ximelagatran On or about 27 January 2005, a putative class action was filed in the US District Court for the District of Massachusetts on behalf of purchasers of AstraZeneca publicly traded securities during the period 2 April 2003 to 11 October 2004 against AstraZeneca PLC, Percy Barnevik, Hkan Mogren, Sir Tom McKillop and Jonathan Symonds.
The lawsuit asserts claims under sections 10 b and 20 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and SEC Rule 10b-5, alleging that the defendants made false and misleading statements regarding Exanta clinical trials and the status of the New Drug Application for Exanta in the US.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations and will vigorously defend the action.
Iressa gefitinib In 2004, two claims were filed against AstraZeneca KK in Japan, in the Osaka and Tokyo District Courts respectively.
In each claim, it is alleged that Iressa caused a fatal incidence of interstitial lung disease ILD in a Japanese patient.
AstraZeneca KK, following consultation with external legal advisers, believes the claims are without merit and is defending both cases.
ILD is a known complication of lung disease, including advanced lung cancer, regardless of treatment.
Losec Prilosec omeprazole In March 2000, the German Federal Patent Court declared that AstraZenecas formulation patent for omeprazole was invalid.
AstraZeneca appealed the decision to the German Supreme Court.
As a consequence, all pending infringement actions in Germany were stayed awaiting the outcome of the appeal.
At the time, AstraZeneca obtained an interlocutory injunction against ratiopharm GmbH based on the formulation patent.
In March 2004, the German Supreme Court heard AstraZenecas appeal and the court confirmed the decision of the German Federal Patent Court declaring the patent invalid.
AstraZeneca has sought leave to appeal this decision to the German Constitutional Court.
Following the German Supreme Court decision, ratiopharm GmbH was seeking damages from AstraZeneca for lost sales due to the interlocutory injunction obtained by AstraZeneca against ratiopharm.
In January 2005, the matter was settled on terms which do not have a material effect on AstraZenecas financial position.
In June and July 2004, AstraZeneca applied in France for injunctions based on its omeprazole formulation patent against six companies for marketing generic omeprazole.
In August 2004, the applications were rejected at first instance.
AstraZeneca has appealed this decision.
A hearing on the appeal is scheduled for February 2005.
In May 2004, AstraZeneca also started legal proceedings against the same companies for infringement of its omeprazole formulation patent in France.
These proceedings have been consolidated with a case challenging the validity of the patent, brought by one of the companies against AstraZeneca.
No date has yet been set for a hearing.
In 2001, AstraZeneca filed suit in the US against Andrx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for infringement of a patent directed to a process for making an omeprazole formulation the 281 patent.
Andrx filed counterclaims of non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability for inequitable conduct during prosecution of the 281 patent.
Andrx also asserted that the 281 patent as well as two formulation patents, the 505 and 230 patents, were unenforceable for alleged litigation misconduct by AstraZeneca.
Both parties sought attorneys fees.
In May 2004, the US District Court for the Southern District of New York ruled that the 281 patent was infringed, but also ruled that the 281 patent was invalid.
The court dismissed Andrxs litigation misconduct and other counterclaims and affirmative defences, leaving intact the courts October 2002 decision finding the 230 and 505 patents not invalid and infringed by Andrx.
The October 2002 decision was affirmed in all respects on appeal in December 2003.
The court entered final judgement regarding the 281 patent in July 2004, after determining to stay the attorneys fees claims pending any appeals.
Andrx has appealed the judgement and AstraZeneca has cross-appealed.
In April 2001, Andrx filed a case in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York against AstraZeneca, Merck & Co. Inc. and the US Food and Drug Administration, alleging that the listing of certain patents in the FDAs Orange Book was improper and constituted violations of certain provisions of the Sherman Act, the US federal anti-trust legislation, and a state statute analogous to the federal anti-trust laws.
Andrx sought injunctive relief compelling the parties to fide-list omeprazole-related patents it claimed were improperly listed in the Orange Book and prohibiting the defendants from using patents to delay the effective date of the FDAs approval of Andrxs Abbreviated New Drug Application for omeprazole.
AstraZeneca and Merck filed motions to dismiss the case and Andrx filed a motion for summary judgement.
The case was stayed by the court in 2001 and then administratively dismissed in 2002.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2004 113 30 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued During 2000 and 2001, AstraZeneca had filed suits against Lek Pharmaceutical and Chemical Company d. d. and Lek Services USA, Inc. Impax Laboratories Inc. Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. Apotex Corp, Apotex, Inc. and Torpharm, Inc. and Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals, Inc. now known as Ivax Pharmaceuticals, Inc..
These suits followed the filing of Abbreviated New Drug Applications by these companies with the FDA concerning the companies intention to market generic omeprazole products in the US.
The basis for the proceedings is that the actions of all the companies infringe the 505 and 230 formulation patents relating to omeprazole.
The cases are proceeding under the US Hatch-Waxman legislation.
The case against Ivax was dismissed without prejudice shortly after it was filed, after Ivax withdrew its application to market generic omeprazole.
During 2003, after Mylan commenced commercial sale of its product, AstraZeneca filed suit against Laboratorios Esteve, SA and Esteve Quimica, SA, manufacturers of the omeprazole product to be distributed in the US by Mylan.
In 2003 and 2004, Lek, Apotex and Impax all began commercial sales of their generic omeprazole products.
AstraZeneca has added claims for damages against each of the selling defendants.
Anti-trust and non-infringement counterclaims have been filed by Andrx, Apotex Torpharm, Impax, Eon and Lek.
All defendants but Lek have also raised invalidity and unenforceability counterclaims.
The anti-trust counterclaims, as well as AstraZenecas claims for damages, have been stayed pending resolution of the patent liability issues.
The cases have been consolidated for discovery before, or are directly assigned to, Judge Jones in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York.
All discovery is expected to be completed in February 2005.
In July 2004, Lek filed a motion for summary judgement of non-infringement, which is pending.
Briefing of any remaining motion for summary judgement is scheduled to be completed by April 2005.
No trial date has been set.
During 2000, AstraZeneca was granted interlocutory injunctions based on certain of AstraZenecas omeprazole patents against the generic company, Scandinavian  AB Scand Pharm, in Denmark and Norway.
In October 2001, Oslo City Court in Norway found that Scand Pharm had infringed AstraZenecas formulation patent for omeprazole.
At the same time, the court declared AstraZenecas formulation patent valid.
In November 2004, these findings were upheld by the Appeal Court.
As a result of the Norwegian case, Scand Pharm cannot sell its omeprazole product in Norway.
Furthermore, it is also prevented from selling its omeprazole product in Denmark pending the outcome of the main action in the Danish case.
If the final decisions in these cases are against AstraZeneca, Scand Pharm may claim damages for lost sales due to the interlocutory injunctions.
During 2003 and 2004, AstraZeneca was denied interlocutory injunctions based on certain of its omeprazole patents against Novartis Sverige AB and ratiopharm AB in Sweden and Novartis Finland Oy and ratiopharm Oy in Finland.
An interlocutory injunction against Biochemie Novartis Healthcare A S was granted in Denmark during 2003, based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
Also during 2003, the District Court in Norway found that the generic omeprazole product marketed by ratiopharm AS did not infringe AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
In December 2004, an interlocutary injunction against Nomeco A S, a Danish distributor of a generic omeprazole product from ratiopharm, was granted in Denmark based on AstraZenecas omeprazole formulation patent.
AstraZeneca has been and continues to be involved in numerous proceedings in Canada involving Genpharm, Reddy Cheminor, Rhoxalpharma and Apotex.
These cases relate to omeprazole capsules or omeprazole magnesium tablets and involve various patents.
AstraZeneca could potentially be liable for damages in some cases.
However, there are no financial claims currently being made against AstraZeneca in Canada in any litigation in respect of omeprazole capsules or omeprazole magnesium tablets.
Apotex launched a generic omeprazole capsule product in Canada in January 2004.
Following this launch, AstraZeneca commenced judicial review proceedings seeking to quash Apotexs Notice of Compliance marketing approval.
In September 2004, the case was decided against AstraZeneca.
AstraZenecas appeal of the September 2004 decision is scheduled for February 2005.
AstraZeneca sued Apotex in July 2004 alleging infringement of its formulation patents by Apotexs omeprazole capsules.
In February 2000, the European Commission commenced an investigation relating to certain omeprazole intellectual property rights, and associated regulatory and patent infringement litigation.
The investigation is pursuant to Article 82 of the EC Treaty, which prohibits an abuse of a dominant position.
The investigation was precipitated by a complaint by a party to a number of patent and other proceedings involving AstraZeneca.
AstraZeneca has, in accordance with its corporate policy, co-operated with the Commission.
In July 2003, the Commission served a Statement of Objections on AstraZeneca, referring to alleged infringements regarding the obtaining of supplementary protection certificates for omeprazole in certain European countries: and regarding AstraZenecas replacement of omeprazole capsules by omeprazole MUPS tablets and withdrawal of capsule marketing authorisations in three European countries.
AstraZeneca replied fully to the Commission, explaining why its actions were in AstraZenecas view lawful.
An oral hearing took place in February 2004.
If, ultimately, and subject to any appeals to the Court of First Instance and the European Court of Justice it is held that Article 82 has been infringed, then there may be a liability to fines and or other measures which can be imposed by the Commission.
There could also be liability for alleged losses incurred by aggrieved third parties.
It is not possible, at the present time, to quantify any such liabilities as no Decision has been issued by the Commission, no fines have to date been imposed and no claims for damages have been received.
Moreover, bearing in mind the timescales of proceedings, including appeals, there may well be a considerable period before any such liabilities are finally established even if, which is denied, any such liabilities exist.
Nexium esomeprazole AstraZeneca entities have been sued in state courts in the US in purported representative and class actions involving the marketing of Nexium esomeprazole.
These actions generally allege that AstraZenecas promotion and advertising of Nexium to physicians and consumers is unfair, unlawful and deceptive conduct, particularly as the promotion relates to comparisons of Nexium with Prilosec.
They also allege that AstraZenecas conduct relating to the pricing of Nexium was unfair, unlawful and deceptive.
The plaintiffs allege claims under various state consumer protection, unfair practices and false advertising laws.
The plaintiffs in these cases seek remedies that include restitution, disgorgement of profits, damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief, attorneys fees and costs of suit.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements 114 Form 20-F Information 2004 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued In October 2004, the first action was brought in the Superior Court of the State of California for the County of Los Angeles by the AFL-CIO, two unincorporated associations and an individual on behalf of themselves, the general public and a class of California consumers, third party payers, cash payers and those making co-pay.
A second action has been filed in the same court on behalf of a similar putative class of consumers.
Actions making similar allegations were filed on behalf of a putative class of consumers in the Circuit Court of Searcy County, Arkansas and on behalf of a putative class of third party payers in the Superior Court of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County.
In addition, in December 2004, AstraZeneca received a pre-litigation demand from claimants in Massachusetts who allege similar claims under Massachusetts law on behalf of themselves and a proposed class of purchasers of Nexium in Massachusetts.
AstraZeneca denies the allegations and is vigorously defending each of these actions.
In October 2004, AstraZeneca LP filed suit in the US District Court for the District of Delaware seeking declaratory judgement that its Better is Better campaign for Nexium is not false or misleading advertising in violation of section 43 a of the Lanham Act, a federal statute governing false advertising claims.
The action was taken in response to a letter from TAP Pharmaceuticals, Inc. demanding that AstraZeneca immediately withdraw the television commercial and other components of the direct-to-consumer advertising campaign for Nexium on the basis that they allegedly constitute violations of the statute.
In November 2004, TAP requested expedited consideration of the case by filing a motion for a preliminary injunction.
In December 2004, the court held a hearing on this motion and denied the request for a preliminary injunction.
A trial date has been scheduled for April 2006.
Nolvadex tamoxifen AstraZeneca is a co-defendant with Barr Laboratories, Inc. in numerous purported class actions filed in federal and state courts throughout the US.
All of the state court actions were removed to federal court and have been consolidated, along with all of the cases originally filed in federal court, in a federal multi-district litigation proceeding pending in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York.
Some of the cases were filed by plaintiffs representing a putative class of consumers who purchased tamoxifen.
The other cases were filed on behalf of a putative class of third party payers including health maintenance organisations, insurers and other managed care providers and health plans that have reimbursed or otherwise paid for prescriptions of tamoxifen.
The plaintiffs allege that they paid supra-competitive and monopolistic prices for tamoxifen as a result of the settlement of patent litigation between Zeneca and Barr in 1993.
The plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, treble damages under the anti-trust laws, disgorgement and restitution.
In April 2002, AstraZeneca filed a motion to dismiss the cases for failure to state a cause of action.
In May 2003, the US District Court for the Eastern District of New York granted AstraZenecas motion to dismiss.
The plaintiffs appealed the decision.
Oral arguments in the appeal were heard by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in July 2004.
The courts decision is awaited.
Plendil felodipine In August 2000, AstraZeneca LP received a letter from Mutual Pharmaceutical Co. Inc. informing AstraZeneca of Mutuals intention to market a generic version of AstraZenecas Plendil extended release tablets prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patent covering the extended release formulation.
AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Mutual in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
Mutual responded and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement and invalidity.
In March 2003, the District Court granted summary judgement in favour of AstraZeneca as to the infringement claim, holding that Mutual infringed AstraZenecas formulation patent.
In August 2003, the District Court granted summary judgement in favour of AstraZeneca as to the validity claim, holding that AstraZenecas patent is valid.
Mutual then filed a notice of appeal as to both of these decisions to the US District Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.
In September 2004, the Federal Circuit Court reversed the ruling by the District Court as to infringement and held that Mutuals extended release felodipine tablets, as a matter of law, do not infringe AstraZenecas formulation patent.
However, the Federal Circuit Court upheld the District Courts decision as to validity, ruling that AstraZenecas formulation patent is valid as a matter of law.
In April 2004, Zenith Goldline Pharmaceuticals, Inc. now known as Ivax Pharmaceuticals, Inc. filed a motion for summary judgement on the issue of non-infringement in the patent infringement action pending between AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and Zenith Ivax in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey.
The patent infringement action against Zenith Ivax, which AstraZeneca filed in July 2001, resulted from a May 2001 letter to AstraZeneca in which Zenith Ivax declared its intention to market a generic version of Plendil extended release tablets prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patent covering the extended release formulation.
Zenith Ivax filed counterclaims in the litigation alleging non-infringement.
In August 2004, the District Court issued an order dismissing this action, without prejudice, pending the consummation of a settlement of the matter and granting the parties the right, upon motion and good cause shown, to re-open the legal action if the settlement were not consummated within 60 days of the date of the order.
The parties jointly proposed to the District Court that the 60 day period be extended by 30 days.
In November 2004, the District Court entered an order of dismissal reflecting the parties agreement that AstraZeneca dismiss its claim of infringement and Ivax dismiss its counterclaim of invalidity.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2004 115 30 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued Seroquel quetiapine fumarate AstraZeneca PLC and AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP have been named as defendants in the case of Susan Zehel-Miller et al.
v. AstraZenaca [sic], AstraZenaca Pharmaceuticals, LP [sic], a putative class action suit filed in August 2003 in the US District Court for the Middle District of Florida.
The named plaintiffs are seeking damages and injunctive relief on behalf of a purported class consisting of all persons in the United States who purchased and or used Seroquel.
Although the scope of the allegations in the complaint is very broad, the primary focus appears to be the contention that AstraZeneca failed to provide adequate warnings in connection with an alleged association between Seroquel and the onset of diabetes.
In August 2004, the court denied class certification in this matter.
The plaintiffs motion to the Court of Appeals for leave to pursue an interlocutory appeal of the decision was denied in January 2005.
AstraZeneca is vigorously defending the claims of the two remaining plaintiffs in this matter.
Symbicort budesonide formoterol In February 2004, Ivax Pharmaceuticals UK Limited initiated proceedings against AstraZeneca AB claiming that the UK parts of two European patents related to Symbicort were invalid.
In May 2004, the court granted AstraZenecas application for a stay of the proceedings pending the determination of parallel opposition proceedings before the European Patent Office.
In April 2004, Ivax initiated proceedings against AstraZeneca AB in relation to the Republic of Ireland claiming that two European patents related to Symbicort were invalid.
In October 2004, the court granted AstraZenecas application for a stay of proceedings pending the final decision of the European Patent Office and its Boards of Appeal in the opposition proceedings.
Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate In May 2003, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against KV Pharmaceutical Company in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri in response to KVs notification of its intention to market a generic version of Toprol-XL tablets in the 200mg dose prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents covering the substance and its formulation.
In response to later similar notices from KV related to the 100mg and 50mg doses, AstraZeneca filed further actions.
KV responded in each instance and filed counterclaims alleging non-infringement, invalidity and unenforceability of the listed patents.
In February 2004, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Andrx Pharmaceuticals LLC in the US District Court for the District of Delaware in response to Andrxs notification of its intention to market a generic version of Toprol-XL tablets in the 50mg dose prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
In response to two later similar notices from Andrx related to the 25mg, 100mg and 200mg doses, AstraZeneca filed two additional patent infringement actions in the same court.
In each instance, Andrx claims that each of the listed patents is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable.
In April 2004, AstraZeneca filed a patent infringement action against Eon Labs Manufacturing Inc. in the US District Court for the District of Delaware in response to Eons notification of its intention to market generic versions of Toprol-XL tablets in the 25mg, 50mg, 100mg and 200mg doses prior to the expiration of AstraZenecas patents.
In its response, Eon alleged that each of the listed patents is invalid, not infringed and unenforceable.
All of the patent litigation relating to Toprol-XL against KV, Andrx and Eon has been consolidated for pre-trial discovery purposes and motion practice in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Missouri.
The defendants filed a motion for summary judgement in December 2004 alleging that the Toprol-XL patents are invalid due to double patenting.
In January 2005 AstraZeneca filed a terminal disclaimer of the Toprol-XL patents-in-suit over one of the other patents raised by the defendants, which will result in a revision of the expiration date of the Toprol-XL patents-in-suit from March 2008 to September 2007.
Discovery and motion practice are expected to be active through at least the first half of 2005.
No trial date has been set in the consolidated proceedings.
Under the Abbreviated New Drug Application statute, the FDA may not approve KVs product before September 2005, Andrxs product before June 2006 or Eons product before August 2006, unless there is an earlier adverse court decision.
AstraZeneca maintains that its patents are valid, enforceable and infringed by these KV, Andrx and Eon products.
Zestril lisinopril In 1996, two of AstraZenecas predecessor companies, Zeneca Limited and Zeneca Pharma Inc. as licensees, and Merck & Co. Inc. and Merck Frosst Canada Inc. commenced a patent infringement action in the Federal Court of Canada against Apotex Inc. alleging infringement of Mercks lisinopril patent.
Apotex has sold and continues to sell a generic version of AstraZenecas Zestril and Mercks Prinivil tablets.
Apotex has admitted infringement but has raised positive defences to infringement, including that it acquired certain quantities of lisinopril prior to issuance of the patent and that certain quantities were licensed under a compulsory licence.
Apotex has also alleged invalidity of the patent.
The trial is scheduled for January 2006.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements 116 Form 20-F Information 2004 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 30 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued Average wholesale price class action litigation In January 2002, AstraZeneca was named as a defendant along with 24 other pharmaceutical manufacturers in a class action suit, in Massachusetts, brought on behalf of a putative class of plaintiffs alleged to have overpaid for prescription drugs as a result of inflated wholesale list prices.
The suit seeks to recover unspecified damages.
AstraZeneca has also been named as a co-defendant with various other pharmaceutical manufacturers in similar suits filed in nine other states.
Most of these suits have been consolidated with the Massachusetts action for pre-trial purposes pursuant to federal multi-district litigation procedures.
The court has issued a scheduling order setting out a briefing schedule for class certification and summary judgement motions.
That order groups five of the pharmaceutical manufacturer codefendants, including AstraZeneca, into a group called the Fast Track defendants.
The court has scheduled a hearing on the plaintiffs motion for class certification relating to the Fast Track defendants for February 2005.
A hearing on the Fast Track motions for summary judgement is scheduled for June 2005.
In addition to the consolidated proceedings in Massachusetts, additional suits are proceeding independently in four states.
These include separate suits brought by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the Commonwealth of Kentucky and the State of Wisconsin to recover alleged damages on behalf of those states and their residents, as well as a class action brought by an individual plaintiff in Arizona on behalf of individuals and entities in that state.
AstraZeneca believes that it has meritorious defences to all of these claims.
Retail pharmacies drug purchasers actions Since October 1993, several thousand retail pharmacies and certain retail drug purchasers have commenced purported class actions and individual actions in various federal and state courts throughout the US alleging that, with respect to brand name prescription drugs, manufacturers and wholesalers engaged in discriminatory pricing practices and or discriminatory discounting and rebate practices, and or conspired with one another to fix prices and artificially maintain high prices to the plaintiffs in restraint of trade and commerce.
More than 20 brand name prescription drug manufacturers and eight wholesalers have been named defendants in some or all of these suits.
In November 2004, AstraZeneca settled the single remaining retail case pending against it in the Northern District of Illinois.
Consequently, all of these cases against AstraZeneca have now been settled or dismissed.
Additional government investigations into drug marketing practices As is true for most, if not all, major prescription pharmaceutical companies operating in the US, AstraZeneca is currently involved in multiple additional US federal and state criminal and civil investigations into drug marketing and pricing practices.
Five of these investigations are being handled by the US Attorneys Office in Boston.
One involves a request for production of documents relating to the sale and promotion of Prilosec to the New England Medical Center in Boston.
A second subpoena from the same office requests documents relating to the sale and marketing of products to an individual physician in Worcester, Massachusetts and certain physicians and entities affiliated with that physician.
A third subpoena from that office seeks documents relating to speaker programmes involving healthcare professionals at three regional healthcare entities in the Boston area.
A fourth subpoena requests documents relating to interactions with physicians at a large, regional clinic and affiliated entities in north eastern Massachusetts.
The fifth subpoena from the Boston US Attorneys Office relates to the marketing and sale of three products Zestril, Naropin and Cefotan to a leading provider of pharmacy services to long term care facilities.
AstraZeneca has received a subpoena from the Massachusetts Attorney Generals Office seeking documents relating to the sale and promotion of five products Prilosec, Seroquel, Rhinocort Aqua, Toprol-XL and Zestril within Massachusetts.
In October 2004, AstraZeneca received a subpoena from the US Attorneys Office in Philadelphia principally seeking documents relating to the formulary status of AstraZeneca drugs at a regional health maintenance organisation and a national pharmacy benefits manager.
Most recently, AstraZeneca, along with 12 other pharmaceutical manufacturers, was served with a subpoena from the US Attorneys Office in Philadelphia seeking documents in connection with the governments pending civil litigation against Medco Health Systems.
That subpoena seeks documents relating to contracts, programmes, grants or payments to Medco.
AstraZeneca is co-operating fully with all of these investigations.
It is not possible to predict the outcome of any of these investigations, which could include the payment of damages and the imposition of fines, penalties and administrative remedies.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2004 117 30 Assets pledged, commitments and contingent liabilities continued Drug importation anti-trust litigation In May 2004, plaintiffs in a purported class action filed complaints in the US District Court for Minnesota and for New Jersey, alleging that AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP and eight other pharmaceutical manufacturer defendants conspired to prevent American consumers from purchasing prescription drugs from Canada, depriving consumers of the ability to purchase drugs at competitive prices.
The New Jersey case was voluntarily dismissed in July 2004 and only the Minnesota proceedings remain pending.
The plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, restitution and other remedies.
The defendants in the Minnesota action filed a motion to dismiss the case for failure to state a cause of action.
Oral argument on the motion to dismiss was heard in January 2005.
A decision on the motion is awaited.
In August 2004, Californian retail pharmacy plaintiffs filed an action in the Superior Court of California making similar allegations.
As in the Minnesota action, the defendants in this action have moved to dismiss the case for failure to state a cause of action.
It is expected that oral argument on the motion will be held in early 2005.
AstraZeneca denies the material allegations of both the Minnesota and California actions and is vigorously defending these matters.
StarLink AstraZeneca Insurance Company Limited AZIC has commenced arbitration proceedings in the UK against insurers in respect of amounts paid by Garst Seed Company of the US in settlement of claims arising in the US from Garsts sale of StarLink, a genetically engineered corn seed.
AstraZenecas interest in Garst was through AstraZenecas 50% ownership of Advanta BV, the sale of which to Syngenta was announced in May 2004 and completed in September 2004.
AZICs claim against the insurers will not be affected by the disposal of AstraZenecas interest in Advanta BV.
In April 2004, Comprehensive Cancer Centers, Inc. CCC, a subsidiary of Salick Health Care, Inc. received a subpoena from the US Department of Justice seeking, among other items, medical records and related documentation for services provided to patients at the Comprehensive Cancer Center at Desert Regional Medical Center in Palm Springs, California.
The Center is managed by CCC, which is co-operating fully with the document request.
Taxation Where tax exposures can be quantified, a provision is made based on best estimates and managements judgement.
Details of the material tax exposures are as follows: AstraZeneca has made certain double taxation relief claims in accordance with its understanding of existing law.
We understand that other taxpayers have recently been denied credit for foreign taxes in similar claims.
The estimated tax exposure provided for in respect of the issue is $197m, although the potential additional losses above and beyond the amount provided is estimated to be up $130m: however, management believes that it is unlikely that these additional losses will arise.
AstraZeneca expects a definitive ruling or clarification of law on the availability of credit for foreign taxes in the next 12 months.
Until these cases are resolved either in court or through clarification of existing law, there is some risk that credits may not be allowed, giving rise to effective double taxation.
In this event, the Company will seek relief under the relevant double tax treaty.
AstraZeneca faces a number of transfer pricing audits in jurisdictions around the world.
The issues under audit are often complex and can require many years to resolve.
Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make estimates and judgements with respect to the ultimate outcome of a tax audit, and actual results could vary from these estimates.
The total accrual included in the Financial Statements to cover the worldwide exposure to transfer pricing audits is $400m.
It is not possible to estimate any additional exposure that may arise or the timing of tax cash flows in relation to each outcome.
Included in the provision is an amount of interest of $107m.
Interest is accrued as a tax expense.
Of the remaining tax exposures, the Company does not expect material additional losses.
General With respect to each of the legal proceedings described above, other than those which have been disposed of, we are unable to make estimates of the loss or range of losses at this stage.
We also do not believe that disclosure of the amount sought by plaintiffs, if that is known, would be meaningful with respect to those legal proceedings.
This is due to a number of factors including, for example, the stage of the proceedings in many cases trial dates have not been set and overall length and extent of legal discovery: the entitlement of the parties to an action to appeal a decision: clarity as to theories of liability: damages and governing law: uncertainties in timing of litigation: and the possible need for further legal proceedings to establish the appropriate amount of damages, if any.
However, although there can be no assurance regarding the outcome of any of the legal proceedings or investigations referred to in this Note 30 to the Financial Statements, we do not expect them to have a materially adverse effect on our financial position or profitability.
