com Summary financial statements Auditors statement Auditors statement to the members of These summary Financial Statements are a Basis of opinion summary of information in the Groups annual AstraZeneca PLC, pursuant to section 251 We conducted our work in accordance with Financial Statements, Directors Report and of the Companies Act 1985 Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on Directors Remuneration Report and do not We have examined the summary Financial the summary financial statement issued by contain sufficient information to allow for as full Statements set out on pages 28 to 33.
This the Auditing Practices Board for use in the UK.
an understanding of the results and state of statement is made solely to the Companys Our report on the Groups full annual Financial affairs of the Group as would be provided by members, as a body, in accordance with Statements describes the basis of our audit the full annual Financial Statements, Directors section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our opinion on those Financial Statements.
Report and Directors Remuneration Report.
work has been undertaken so that we might Shareholders requiring more detailed information state to the Companys members those matters Opinion have the right to obtain, free of charge, a copy we are required to state to them in such a In our opinion the summary Financial of the Groups last full Annual Report and Form statement and for no other purpose.
To the Statements are consistent with the full annual 20-F Information, available from the Secretary fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Financial Statements, the Directors Report at the registered office of the Company.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other and the Directors Remuneration Report of than the Company and the Companys AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended The summary Financial Statements on pages members as a body, for our work, for this 31 December 2004 and comply with the 28 to 33 were approved by the Board of statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
applicable requirements of section 251 of Directors on 27 January 2005 and were signed the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations on its behalf by: Respective responsibilities of Directors made thereunder.
and Auditor The Directors are responsible for preparing 27 January 2005 the Annual Review 2004 in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our KPMG Audit Plc responsibility is to report to you our opinion Chartered Accountants on the consistency of the summary Financial Registered Auditor Sir Tom McKillop, Director Statements within the Annual Review 2004 8 Salisbury Square with the full annual Financial Statements, the London EC4Y 8BB Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information Jonathan Symonds, Director contained in the summary Annual Review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary Financial Statements.
