AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements 76 Form 20-F Information 2004 Accounting Policies Basis of accounting calculated after charging the gross amount, currency loans, are taken to operating profit.
The Financial Statements are prepared under at current exchange rates, of any such In the consolidated Financial Statements, the historical cost convention, modified to goodwill.
exchange differences arising on include the revaluation to market value of consolidation of the net investments in certain current asset investments held by Intangible assets, including patents acquired, subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, Group subsidiaries as described below, in are capitalised and amortised over their together with those on relevant foreign accordance with the Companies Act 1985 estimated useful lives generally not currency loans, are taken directly to reserves and UK generally accepted accounting exceeding 20 years, in line with the benefits via the statement of total recognised gains principles UK GAAP.
If related products fail, the and losses.
significant differences to US GAAP these remaining unamortised amounts are have been described in the US GAAP immediately written off to revenue expense.
Taxation section on pages 125 to 135.
The following Finance costs and internally developed The charge for taxation is based on the profit paragraphs describe the main accounting intangible assets are not capitalised.
All for the year and takes into account taxation policies under UK GAAP, which have been intangible assets are reviewed for impairment deferred because of timing differences applied consistently.
The accounting policies when there are indications that the carrying between the treatment of certain items of some overseas subsidiaries and value may not be recoverable.
for taxation and for accounting purposes.
associated undertakings do not conform Full provision is made for the effects of these with UK GAAP and, where appropriate, Post-retirement benefits differences.
Deferred tax asset valuation adjustments are made on consolidation The pension costs relating to UK retirement allowances are made where it is more likely in order to present the Group Financial plans are assessed in accordance with the than not that the asset will not be realised Statements on a consistent basis.
advice of independent qualified actuaries.
These valuations require The amounts so determined include the judgements to be made including the AstraZenecas management considers regular cost of providing the benefits under forecast of future taxable income.
Deferred the following to be the most important the plans, which it is intended should remain tax balances are not discounted.
accounting policies in the context of the as a level percentage of current and Groups operations.
expected future earnings of the employees Accruals for tax contingencies require covered under the plans.
Variations from the management to make judgements and Turnover regular pension cost are spread on a estimates in relation to tax audit issues and Turnover excludes intercompany turnover systematic basis over the estimated average exposures.
Tax benefits are not recognised and value added taxes and represents net remaining service lives of current employees unless the tax positions will probably be invoice value less estimated rebates, returns in the plans.
Retirement plans of non-UK sustained.
Once considered to be probable, and settlement discounts.
Revenue is subsidiaries are accounted for in accordance management reviews each material tax recognised at the point at which title passes.
with local conditions and practice.
With benefit to assess whether a provision should minor exceptions, these subsidiaries be taken against full recognition of that Research and development recognise the expected cost of providing benefit on the basis of potential settlement Internally generated research and pensions on a systematic basis over the through negotiation and or litigation.
development expenditure is charged average remaining service lives of employees to profit in the year in which it is incurred.
in accordance with the advice of Any recorded exposure to interest on tax independent qualified actuaries.
The costs of liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
Goodwill and intangible assets providing post-retirement benefits other than All provisions are included in creditors due On the acquisition of a business, fair values pensions principally healthcare are charged within one year.
are attributed to the net assets acquired.
to the profit and loss account on a consistent Goodwill arises where the fair value of the basis over the average service lives of No provision is made for unremitted earnings consideration given for a business exceeds employees.
Such costs are assessed in of foreign subsidiaries where there is no the fair value of such net assets.
Goodwill accordance with the advice of independent commitment to remit such earnings and arising on acquisitions since 1998 is qualified actuaries.
AstraZeneca has adopted where there is a plan to permanently reinvest capitalised and amortised over its estimated the disclosure requirements of FRS 17. such earnings.
No provision is made for useful life generally not exceeding 20 years.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment when Foreign currencies there are indications that the carrying value Profit and loss accounts in foreign currencies Tangible fixed assets may not be recoverable.
The Groups policy are translated into US dollars at average AstraZenecas policy is to write off the up to and including 1997 was to eliminate rates for the relevant accounting periods.
difference between the cost of each tangible goodwill arising upon acquisitions against Assets and liabilities are translated at fixed asset in use and its residual value evenly reserves.
Such goodwill will remain exchange rates prevailing at the date of the over its estimated remaining life.
Assets eliminated against reserves until disposal Group balance sheet.
under construction are not depreciated.
or termination of the previously acquired Reviews are made periodically of the business including the planned disposal Exchange gains and losses on short term estimated remaining lives of individual or termination when there are indications foreign currency borrowings and deposits productive assets, taking account of that the value of the goodwill has been are included within net interest payable.
commercial and technological obsolescence permanently impaired, when the profit Exchange differences on all other as well as normal wear and tear.
Under this or loss on disposal or termination will be transactions, except relevant foreign policy it becomes impracticable to calculate AstraZeneca Annual Report and Financial Statements Form 20-F Information 2004 77 average asset lives exactly.
However, the Current asset investments held by the total lives range from approximately 13 to 50 Groups insurance company subsidiaries, years for buildings, and three to 15 years for to the extent that they are actively matched plant and equipment.
All tangible fixed assets against insurance liabilities, are valued at are reviewed for impairment when there are market value and unrealised gains and losses indications that the carrying value may not are taken directly to reserves via the be recoverable.
statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Realised gains and losses are taken Leases to the profit and loss account.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in tangible fixed Contingent liabilities assets at fair value.
Each asset is depreciated Through the normal course of business, over the shorter of the lease term or its useful AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, life.
The obligations related to finance leases, the settlement of which may involve cost net of finance charges in respect of future to the Group.
Provision is made where an periods, are included, as appropriate, adverse outcome is probable and associated under creditors due within, or creditors due costs can be estimated reliably.
The interest element of the rental obligation is allocated to accounting AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental periods during the lease term to reflect a liabilities relating to its past operations, constant rate of interest on the remaining principally in respect of soil and groundwater balance of the obligation for each accounting remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs period.
Rentals under operating leases are are made when there is a present obligation, charged to the profit and loss account as it is probable that expenditure on remedial incurred.
work will be required and a reliable estimate can be made of the cost.
Investments An associate is an undertaking, not being Stock valuation a subsidiary or joint venture, in which Stocks are stated at the lower of cost or net AstraZeneca has a participating interest and realisable value.
The first in, first out or an over whose commercial and financial policy average method of valuation is used.
In decisions AstraZeneca exercises significant determining cost, depreciation is included influence.
but selling expenses and certain overhead expenses principally central administration A joint venture is an entity in which costs are excluded.
Net realisable value is AstraZeneca holds an interest on a long term determined as estimated selling price less basis and which is jointly controlled by costs of disposal.
AstraZeneca and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Principal financial instruments Forward foreign exchange contracts for AstraZenecas share of the profits less losses existing transactions are revalued to year of all significant joint ventures and associates end spot rates and the gains losses arising is included in the Group profit and loss are recognised in the Group profit and loss account on the equity accounting basis or, account.
Interest differentials are amortised in the case of joint ventures, the gross equity on a straight line basis over the life of the accounting basis.
The holding value of contract.
significant associates and joint ventures in the Group balance sheet is calculated by The gains losses on forward foreign reference to AstraZenecas equity in the net exchange contracts and currency option assets of such associates and joint ventures, contracts hedging anticipated exposures as shown by the most recent accounts are deferred until the date the underlying available, adjusted where appropriate and transaction being hedged is completed.
including goodwill on acquisitions made since 1 January 1998.
Interest rate swaps are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Cross-currency swaps Fixed asset investments are stated at cost are translated at year end exchange rates: and reviewed for impairment if there are gains losses arising are included in the indications that the carrying value may not measurement of the related liabilities and be recoverable.
dealt with in the Group profit and loss account or reserves as appropriate.
