AstraZeneca Annual Report and AstraZeneca Code of Conduct 158 Form 20-F Information 2004 AstraZeneca Code of Conduct Introduction situation that may confront employees in No employee should seek or accept a gift, We are committed to dealing with all our markets around the world.
In appropriate entertainment or personal favour which stakeholders with the highest ethical cases, guidance on the application of the might reasonably be believed to have any standards, integrity and as responsible Code to particular situations should be influence on business transactions.
The trust and confidence sought from management.
In addition, Legal of entertainment should not be accepted of all our stakeholders, together with our Department and Group Internal Audit are unless the offer is within the bounds of reputation, are among the most valuable available on a confidential basis as accepted business hospitality.
Gifts which assets of the Group.
Along with our independent sources of advice.
do not meet the above criteria should be commitment to competitiveness and reported to management who shall performance, we will continue to be led by It is the responsibility of each employee to determine how they shall be dealt with.
our values to achieve sustainable success.
report promptly any violations of the Code of Conduct of which they become aware.
AstraZeneca funds will not be used in Every AstraZeneca employee is required to AstraZeneca assures individual employees payments, direct or indirect, to government make a personal commitment to follow the who raise issues that they will be protected officials, people participating in government Companys Code of Conduct, as well as the from any adverse impact on their bodies, employees of state organisations or detailed standards issued in support of it, employment as a result.
AstraZeneca representatives of political parties, for and uphold our commitment to our values, actively encourages employees to raise unlawful or improper purposes.
Equal opportunities We are all privileged to work for one of the Standards of Conduct All employees shall be treated with equal best companies in the world and must Business practices respect and dignity and shall be provided ensure we leave a lasting legacy.
Nothing AstraZeneca Companies, and their with equality of opportunity to develop not the need to meet targets, or direct orders employees, must comply with the laws of themselves and their careers.
from a superior should ever compromise all countries in which they operate, with our commitment to honesty and integrity.
appropriate international and national AstraZeneca is striving to achieve diversity industry codes of practice and with the at all levels of the organisation and values the Sir Tom McKillop high ethical standards specified by individuality, diversity and creative potential Chief Executive AstraZeneca.
that every employee brings to its business and supports the continuous development It is the responsibility of all employees to of their skills and abilities.
Policy ensure, by taking advice where appropriate, AstraZeneca requires its companies, and that they are fully aware of all relevant laws, Judgements about people for the purpose of their employees, to observe the highest regulations, practices and codes of practice, recruitment, development or promotion shall standards of integrity and honesty and act particularly as they relate to their job.
be made solely on the basis of a persons with due skill, care, diligence and fairness in ability and potential in relation to the needs of the conduct of business.
To this end all Employees should ensure that, within their the job and shall only take account of matters AstraZeneca Companies, and their sphere of business activity, AstraZeneca relevant to the performance of that job.
employees, are required to comply with the Companies carry out their contractual Overall, success and advancement within laws of all countries in which they operate obligations in a proper and timely manner AstraZeneca shall depend solely on personal and with the high ethical standards detailed and are not in breach of contract.
ability, behaviour and work performance.
by AstraZeneca in support of this policy.
Business practice, and what amounts to In some countries these principles may be Compliance improper conduct, varies from country to modified by national legal requirements for It is the responsibility of management to country and from industry to industry.
ensure that the AstraZeneca Code of employees will comply with a the high ethical Conduct and standards are communicated, standards specified by AstraZeneca b any Personal harassment understood and acted upon.
They are published overall AstraZeneca Code relating Personal harassment, such as verbal required to positively promote them by to business practices and c any international abuse or sexual harassment, of any personal example and are not entitled to permit and national codes of practice applicable to employee of AstraZeneca, its suppliers any exceptions to the required behaviour.
the conduct of business in each environment.
or customers is unacceptable in any form whatsoever.
All employees should familiarise themselves Gifts, entertainment and personal favours with the Code of Conduct and must comply may only be offered to a third party if modest Any person who believes they have been with it.
Failure to act in compliance with the in value and if they are consistent with personally harassed should report the Code will result in appropriate disciplinary customary business practice.
No gifts, incident and circumstances to their action against both the employee committing entertainment or personal favour may be immediate manager or HR manager or other the breach and others who condone it.
offered in contravention of any applicable law senior manager who will arrange for it to be or code of practice.
The Standards set out in the Code are AstraZeneca is fully supportive of the general and do not address each and every principles set forth in the UN Declaration of Human Rights.
These include freedom from AstraZeneca Annual Report and AstraZeneca Code of Conduct Form 20-F Information 2004 159 torture and arbitrary arrest, the right to a fair These examples do not extend to normal Policies, delegated authorities and trial and equality before the law.
and proper financial investments in publicly reserved powers quoted companies.
AstraZeneca employees are expected to Political contributions make themselves aware of and comply Any political contributions by AstraZeneca Insider information with the letter and spirit of all AstraZeneca Companies must be lawful and approved Employees must not use confidential policies and with the reserved powers and under procedures laid down by the board or information obtained through their delegated authorities established by the governing body of the Company concerned.
Copies of these are available on the Companys intranet Approval should not be given to any political It is AstraZeneca policy, and in certain site s. contributions by AstraZeneca Companies countries a legal requirement carrying which, by their scale or affiliation, might be criminal sanctions, that employees in The freedoms which individuals have to carry seen as excessive or inappropriate.
possession of confidential price sensitive out their jobs must be exercised within both AstraZenecas accounting procedures information in relation to securities do not the letter and spirit of AstraZeneca policies require any political contribution to be make use of such information to deal in and procedures, reserved powers and reported to AstraZeneca headquarters as securities of AstraZeneca or provide such delegated authorities.
These are designed to part of the annual consolidation of results.
information to third parties for that purpose.
empower people to carry out their The same considerations apply in relation to responsibilities within a necessary framework Conflicts of interest confidential price sensitive information of corporate control and legal responsibility Employees dealing with AstraZenecas relating to other companies and dealing in but are not so voluminous as to prescribe business must act in the best interests of their securities.
appropriate action in every circumstance.
AstraZeneca and must disregard any personal preference or advantage.
Property and resources Records, disclosures and AstraZeneca resources should be kept communications Employees should avoid entering into securely and should only be used for the AstraZeneca PLC and all AstraZeneca situations in which their personal, family or proper advancement of its business and Companies and their employees are financial interests may conflict with those of not for personal gain.
required to keep proper accounting and AstraZeneca.
Where any potential conflict of other records which give a true and fair interest may arise, the employee shall declare Individuals expending AstraZeneca view of the financial position, results of that interest and seek advice from senior resources should recognise that they owe a operations, transactions, assets and management.
duty of care to the shareholders of liabilities so as to enable the Company AstraZeneca, who are its ultimate owners.
to make full, fair, accurate, timely and Examples of conflict to be declared and Commitments and expenditure should only understandable disclosures in all reports resolved include: be such as could be justified to shareholders it is required to publish, file or submit to if the facts were known.
This includes any shareholders and regulators and in all having a family interest in a transaction expenses claimed and purchases made for other communications which it publishes.
with AstraZeneca or one of its which reimbursement is sought.
subsidiaries the Company or any All accounting and other records will be supplier or customer: AstraZeneca resources include not only maintained in a manner that describes and tangible assets such as materials, equipment documents accurately the Companys true hiring of a family member in any capacity: and cash, but also intangible assets such as financial position and results of operations computer systems, trade secrets and and the true nature of its business having an interest, directly or through confidential information.
Employees should transactions, assets and liabilities.
family, in a competitor, supplier or observe global and local guidelines Accounting records will be kept in customer of the Company: concerning the classifying and handling of accordance with AstraZeneca policies, documents and electronic data.
The storage relevant accounting standards and having an interest, directly or through of personal data in an electronic medium appropriate generally accepted accounting family, in an organisation that has, or may be governed by laws with which relevant principles.
seeks to do business with the Company: employees should familiarise themselves and comply.
Employees must ensure that all reports acquiring an interest in property such as published, filed or submitted to shareholders real estate, patent rights or securities Information generated within AstraZeneca, and regulators and all other communications where the Company has, or might have, including research and development and which are published by the Company are full, an interest.
manufacturing data, costs, prices, sales, fair, accurate, timely and understandable: profits, markets, customers and methods of they must not mislead the reader in any way doing business, is the property of or omit anything necessary to make them full, AstraZeneca and must not, unless legally fair and accurate.
The Chief Executive and required, be disclosed outside AstraZeneca the Companys senior financial officers have without proper authority.
a particular responsibility in this regard.
