Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies a Nature of operations and geographical results Cadbury Schweppes plc the Company and its subsidiaries and associated undertakings the Group is an international confectionery and beverage company with operations in almost every country in the world.
The origins of the business stretch back over 200 years.
Cadbury Schweppes has a broad portfolio of well established regional and local brands which include Cadbury, Trident, Halls, Dentyne and Hollywood in the confectionery business and Dr Pepper, Seven Up, Schweppes, Snapple, Hawaiian Punch, Motts and Orangina in the beverages business.
Significant measures used by management in assessing geographical performance include turnover, underlying operating profit operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill intangibles amortisation and underlying operating margins operating margins before exceptional items and goodwill intangibles amortisation.
The profit and loss account has been presented in columnar format to show clearly these items.
The basis of accounting for these measures is UK generally accepted accounting principles.
The Groups operational management structure has five regions, each with its own leadership team.
These five regions, which are the Groups reportable segments are: Americas Beverages, Americas Confectionery, Europe Middle East and Africa EMEA, Europe Beverages and Asia Pacific.
Americas Beverages and Europe Beverages market, produce and distribute branded soft drinks in their respective geographical markets.
Americas Confectionery and EMEA produce and distribute confectionery products in their respective geographical markets.
The Asia Pacific segment is an aggregation of the confectionery and beverages operations in the Asia Pacific region.
The Groups management structure within each region is aligned along geographical lines.
Regional teams manage the segments as strategic business units.
They are managed separately because of the differing market conditions and consumers tastes in the different geographies, which require differing branded products and marketing strategies.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.
b Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of certain land and buildings.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards all of which have been applied consistently throughout the three years in the period to 2 January 2005, except the Group has adopted UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
Shares purchased through Employee Share Option Trusts ESOPs are taken as a deduction in arriving at Shareholders Funds.
Previously these were held within investments.
The balance sheets as at 28 December 2003 have been restated to reflect this change in accounting policy.
The impact on the profit and loss account has been immaterial.
c Financial year The financial statements are made up to the Sunday nearest to 31 December.
Periodically this results in a financial year of 53 weeks.
The profit and loss accounts cover the 53 weeks from 29 December 2003 to 2 January 2005, the 52 weeks from 30 December 2002 to 28 December 2003 and the 52 weeks from 31 December 2001 to 29 December 2002.
The balance sheets for 2004 and 2003 have been drawn up as at 2 January 2005 and 28 December 2003 respectively.
d Basis of consolidation The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements and no profit and loss account is presented for Cadbury Schweppes plc itself as the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 applies.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the parent company and its subsidiary undertakings after eliminating internal transactions and recognising the minority interests in those subsidiary undertakings.
e Acquisition or disposal of subsidiary undertakings Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the financial year are included in Group profit from the effective date of control and those of undertakings disposed of up to the effective date of disposal.
For this purpose the separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the effective date of control.
In calculating the gain or loss on disposal of a subsidiary undertaking the Group makes accruals for legal fees and other liabilities that it expects will arise as a consequence of the disposal including the costs of defending itself against future claims.
f Foreign currencies Transaction differences arising from exchange rate variations on trading transactions are included within operating profits.
Overseas profits remitted to the UK during the year are recorded at average rates.
The functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries is the local currency in which each subsidiary is located, or the US dollar where this is deemed to be the local functional currency.
Only the subsidiary in Lebanon deemed the US dollar to be its functional local currency and therefore Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 99 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies continued reported using US dollars in 2004 and 2003.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries are translated into the functional currency at the rates ruling at the end of the financial year except when covered by an open foreign exchange contract in which case the rate of exchange specified in the contract is used.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in pounds sterling.
The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are translated into pounds sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the end of the financial year.
The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings for the period are translated into sterling at an annual average rate, calculated based upon the exchange rates ruling at the end of each four week accounting period.
Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of opening balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings or date of control in the case of acquisitions during the year to the rate ruling at the end of the financial year are taken directly to reserves.
In addition, the exchange differences arising from the retranslation of overseas profit and losses from average rate to closing rate are taken directly to reserves, as are differences arising on foreign currency borrowings used to finance or hedge long-term foreign investments.
g Turnover This represents the invoiced value of sales and royalties excluding inter-company sales, value added tax and sales taxes that arise as a result of the Groups sale of branded chocolate, sugar and gum confectionery products and branded soft drinks.
Turnover is stated net of trade discounts, sales incentives, up-front payments, slotting fees, cooperative advertising and other non-discretionary payments.
Revenue is recognised when persuasive evidence of an arrangement with a customer exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collection of the amount due is reasonably assured.
A provision for sales returns is estimated on the basis of historical returns and recorded so as to allocate these returns to the same period as the original turnover is recorded.
h Research and development expenditure Expenditure is written off in the financial year in which it is incurred.
i Exceptional Items The costs incurred by the Group in implementing the Fuel for Growth project and integrating acquired businesses are classified as restructuring costs.
The four year Fuel for Growth initiative aims to reduce direct and indirect annual costs by 400 million by 2007.
Achieving these benefits was initially expected to require total costs of 450 million over the life of the project, with an equal level of capital expenditure.
Following a detailed review of the elements of the project the same savings are expected to be generated for total cost of 500 million, with capital expenditure of 300 million.
Due to the significance of the project, both in monetary terms and the impact that the project is having on the operations and costs base of the Group, these costs are classified as exceptional under UK GAAP.
As such, the Group separately discloses exceptional restructuring costs as part of operating expenses on the face of the profit and loss statement.
The presentation of a sub total that excludes restructuring charges would be otherwise prohibited by Item 10 of Regulation S-K in filings with the SEC if it were not expressly permitted by FRS 3. j Earnings per Ordinary Share Basic Earnings per Ordinary Share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit on ordinary activities after taxation, minority interests and preference dividends by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing profit on ordinary activities after taxation, minority interests and preference dividends by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year increased by the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares primarily share options.
k Taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not been reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associates only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or a binding agreement to distribute past earnings in future has been entered into by the subsidiary or associate.
100 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
l Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of average cost and estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct material and labour costs together with the relevant factory overheads including depreciation on the basis of normal activity levels.
Amounts are removed from stock based on the average value of the items of stock removed.
m Tangible fixed assets Depreciation is charged on the original cost or subsequent valuation of assets excluding freehold land and assets in course of construction.
The principal rates, using the straight line method, are as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 2.5% Plant and machinery 7% 10% Vehicles 12.5% 20% Office equipment 20% Computer hardware software 12.5% 33% Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset and the life of the lease.
In specific cases higher depreciation rates are used e. g. high speed machinery, machinery subject to technological changes or any machinery with a high obsolescence factor.
The rates used overseas are not materially different from the rates used above, but they vary according to local conditions and requirements.
The Group capitalises costs associated with software that is ready for service and software developed or obtained for internal use when both the preliminary project stage is completed and the Groups management has authorised further funding for the project which it deems probable of completion and use for the function intended.
Capitalised internal-use software costs include external direct costs of materials and services consumed in developing or obtaining the software, and payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with and who devote time to the project.
Capitalisation of these costs ceases no later than the point at which the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended purpose.
These costs are generally amortised over an eight year period.
The Group is currently developing global standardised business processes and systems, called Project Probe.
Part of the costs of this development are capitalised and the Groups accounting policy complies with both UK and US GAAP.
Capitalised costs include the following directly attributable costs: external consultants, internal payroll costs, hardware and software costs.
The local implementation costs will be amortised over the period of their estimated benefit to the business, which is currently eight years.
The central costs will be amortised over their useful life.
These assumptions will be reviewed annually and accounting for capitalised costs could change materially if management used different estimates or if different conditions occurred in future periods.
The Group carries out an impairment of fixed assets when a change in circumstances or situation indicates there may be an impairment.
Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of a fixed asset or of an income-generating unit with the recoverable amount, that is the higher of its net realisable value and its value in use.
Value in use is to be calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows, using a discount rate based on an estimate of the rate that the market would expect on an equally risky investment.
n Fixed assets held under leases Where assets are financed by leasing agreements where the risks and rewards are substantially transferred to the Group finance leases the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as an obligation under finance leases.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the profit and loss account on the same basis as shown above.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the profit and loss account.
All other leases are operating leases and the relevant annual rentals are charged wholly to the profit and loss account.
o Revaluation of properties Prior to 1999, freehold and leasehold properties were revalued every five years.
Any overall surplus over book value was credited to the revaluation reserve and any overall deficit below historical cost was charged to the profit and loss account in the year of revaluation.
On adoption of FRS 15 in 1999 the Group decided that no further revaluations would be undertaken.
Transfers are made from the revaluation reserves to the profit and loss reserve each year in order to amortise these revaluation surpluses over the remaining useful lives of the properties.
On disposal the profit or loss is calculated by reference to the net book value at the date of disposal and any unamortised revaluation surplus is transferred from revaluation reserves to retained profits.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 101 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies continued p Intangibles and goodwill Intangibles represent significant owned brands acquired since 1986 valued at historical cost.
No amortisation is charged on over 99% of intangibles as the Group believes the value of these brands are maintained indefinitely through marketing investment.
The factors that result in the durability of brands capitalised is that there are no material legal, regulatory, contractual, competitive, economic or other factors that limit the useful life of these intangibles.
Furthermore The Group is a brands business and expects to acquire, hold and support brands for an indefinite period.
The Group supports these brands through spending on consumer marketing across the business and through significant investment in promotional support.
The brands capitalised are expected to be in longstanding and profitable market sectors.
The likelihood that market based factors could truncate a brands life is relatively remote because of the size, diversification and market share of the brands in question.
The Group owns the trademark for all brands valued on the balance sheet and renews these for nominal cost at regular intervals.
The Group has never experienced problems with such renewals.
The main economic and competitive assets of the Group are its brands, including the Cadbury and Schweppes brands, which are not on the balance sheet as these are internally generated.
We carry brands in the balance sheet only for major brands that have been acquired since 1986.
Where the Group licenses the use of a brand then there is no value recognised.
Since 2003 amortisation has been charged on brands with a net book value of approximately 0.5% of the carrying value of brands see note 10.
Acquired brand values are calculated based on the Groups valuation methodology, which is based on valuations of discounted cash flows.
Goodwill and intangibles are treated as local currency assets and are retranslated to the exchange rate in effect at the end of the financial year.
Prior to 1998, goodwill, being any excess of the consideration over fair value, was written off against reserves on consolidation.
Upon disposal of a previously acquired business the attributable amount of goodwill previously written off to reserves is included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Since 1998, acquired goodwill has been capitalised and its subsequent measurement via annual impairment review or an annual amortisation charge determined based on the individual circumstances of each business acquired.
Goodwill is amortised over 20 years.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to 1998 has not been recorded on the balance sheet.
Where goodwill is amortised impairment reviews are carried out in the first full financial year after acquisition and in subsequent periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying value may not be recoverable in full.
Such an indicator of impairment may be an adverse change in the market, or change in the business units performance.
Where an impairment test is performed on goodwill a discounted cash flow analysis is carried out based on the cash flows of the income generating unit and compared to the carrying value of goodwill.
These cash flows are discounted at rates that management estimate to be the risk affected average cost of capital for the particular businesses.
Any impairment is recognised within amortisation.
The Group has concluded that goodwill arising on its associates, including Dr Pepper Seven Up Bottling Group DPSUBG, should not be amortised as it has an indefinite useful economic life.
These investments are considered to have indefinite durability that can be demonstrated, and the value of the investment can be readily measured.
DPSUBG operates in a longstanding and profitable market sector: the US soft drinks bottling industry has over 100 years of history.
The sector has high market entry barriers due to the nature of licence agreements with soft drink concentrate owners including the Groups subsidiary Dr Pepper Seven Up, Inc. DPSU and the capital required to operate as a bottler and distributor.
As an associate, the company is managed separately from the Group and can be valued on a discounted cash flow basis.
The Group has not amortised this goodwill, a departure from the Companies Act 1985 Paragraph 21 of Schedule 4, for the over-riding purpose of giving a true and fair view of the Groups results, for the reasons outlined above.
If the goodwill arising on DPSUBG had been amortised over a period of 20 years, operating profit would have decreased by 14 million in 2004 17 million in 2003: 2002: 17 million, and the investment in associates would be decreased by 73 million in 2004, by 63 million in 2003 and 51 million in 2002. q Associated undertakings Companies where the Group exercises significant influence, normally by board representation and or ownership of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights on a long-term basis, are treated as associated undertakings.
The value of associated undertakings reflects the Groups share of the net assets of the companies concerned.
The Groups share of the profit before tax of associated undertakings is included in the Group Profit and Loss Account.
All associated undertakings have financial years which are coterminous with the Groups, with the exception of Camelot Group plc Camelot whose financial year ends in March.
The Groups share of the profits of Camelot are based on its most recent unaudited financial statements to 30 September.
102 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 r Pensions The costs of providing pensions and other post-retirement benefits are charged to the profit and loss account on a consistent basis over the service lives of employees.
Such costs are calculated by reference to actuarial valuations and variations from such regular costs are spread over the remaining service lives of the current employees.
To the extent to which such costs do not equate with cash contributions, a provision or prepayment is recognised in the balance sheet.
The Group continues to use SSAP24 Accounting for Pension Costs to account for pension costs, and provides the required transitional disclosures under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
s Liquid resources Liquid resources are defined as current asset investments which are readily convertible into known amounts of cash without curtailing or disrupting the business, primarily bank deposits, commercial paper and bond investments.
t Financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
To qualify as a hedge, a financial instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or to a firm commitment or anticipated transaction.
Gains and losses on hedges of existing assets or liabilities are included in the carrying amounts of those assets or liabilities and are ultimately recognised in the profit and loss account as part of those carrying amounts.
Gains and losses on qualifying hedges of firm commitments or anticipated transactions are also deferred and are recognised in the profit and loss account or as adjustments of carrying amounts when the hedged transaction occurs.
Gains and losses on financial instruments that do not qualify as hedges are recognised as other income or expense.
If a financial instrument ceases to be a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is marked to market and any gains or losses are recognised as other income or expense.
u Commodity Derivatives The Group enters into commodities futures contracts to reduce the effect of price fluctuations in the purchase of raw materials such as cocoa, sugar, and certain other products for anticipated manufacturing requirements.
These futures contracts meet the criteria and are accounted for as hedges.
Accordingly, gains and losses related to the fluctuation of the price of these contracts are deferred and recognised in cost of sales as part of the product cost, when the goods are sold.
v Debt Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made in the period.
Convertible debt is reported as a liability unless conversion actually occurs.
No gain or loss is recognised on conversion.
w Advertising costs The Group expenses all advertising costs as incurred and no amounts are capitalised for direct response advertising.
x Preparation of Financial Statements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of turnover and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
y Use of Non-GAAP measures The Group uses non-GAAP measures to make decisions around the allocation of resources and to assess and manage business performance.
Included within these non-GAAP measures, are underlying operating profit, underlying operating margins and free cash flow.
These measures are not defined under UK or US GAAP and may not be comparable with other similarly titled non-GAAP measures.
In addition, the Group presents underlying earnings per share, together with a reconciliation to reported earnings per share in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The costs incurred by the Group in implementing the Fuel for Growth project and integrating acquired businesses are classified as Restructuring costs.
Achieving these benefits is expected to require total Restructuring spend of 500 million over the life of the project, with 300 million of capital expenditure.
Due to the significance of the project, both in monetary terms and the impact that the project is having on the operations and cost base of the Group, these Restructuring costs are classified as exceptional operating items under UK GAAP and are separately disclosed as part of operating expenses on the face of the profit and loss statement.
The Group views Restructuring costs as costs associated with investment in the future performance of the business and not part of the underlying performance trends of the businesses.
Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 103 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 1 Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies continued The Groups results are driven by the performance of its brands businesses, some of which are predominantly internally generated e. g. EMEA region and some of which have been acquired e. g. Americas Confectionery region.
Those businesses that primarily resulted from acquisitions have capitalised goodwill and record an amortisation charge in arriving at UK GAAP operating profit.
There are no similar charges associated with the Groups internally generated brand businesses.
The Group believes that excluding goodwill intangible amortisation from its measure of operating performance allows management to analyse the operating performance of the Groups businesses that were organically grown and those that have resulted from acquisitions on a more comparable basis.
For the reasons stated above, underlying operating profit, underlying earnings and underlying earnings per share are used by the Group for internal performance analysis.
These are the primary information seen and used in any decision making process by the Chief Executives Committee CEC.
The Group also uses underlying profit as a key component of its primary incentive compensation plans including the Annual Incentive Plan, the bonus scheme for all employees of the Group.
Underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per share exclude certain costs, some of which affect the cash generation of the Group.
Assessing and managing the performance of the Group on these underlying measures alone might result in management concentrating disproportionate effort on the control of those costs that are included in the underlying performance measures.
In order to mitigate this risk, the Group also manages the business and sets external targets for cash flow.
The costs of restructuring projects are deducted in arriving at the cash flow measures used by the Group and hence ensures focus on these costs.
The CEC does not primarily review or analyse financial information on a GAAP basis for operating profit, earnings or earnings per share.
The CEC carries out its performance analysis, its decision making processes around the allocation of resources and incentivises employees based on underlying operating profit, underlying earnings and underlying earnings per share.
The Group believes that these measures provide additional material information on the Groups underlying performance trends to investors, prospective investors and investments analysts that should be provided alongside the equivalent GAAP measures.
References to free cash flow refer to the amount of cash generated by the business after meeting all its obligations for interest, tax and dividends and after all capital investment.
Free cash flow is not a defined term under UK or US GAAP and may not therefore be comparable with other similarly titled non-GAAP cash flow measures reported by other companies.
Free cash flow is the measure used by the Group for internal cash flow performance analysis.
The Group believes that free cash flow is a useful measure because it shows the amount of cash flow remaining after the cash generated by the Group through operations has been used to meet purposes over which the Group has little or no discretion such as taxation and interest costs or those which are characteristic of a continuing business, for example capital expenditure and dividends.
Free cash flow therefore represents the amount of cash generated in the year by the underlying business and provides investors with an indication of the net cash flows generated that may be used for or are required to be funded by other discretionary purposes such as investment in acquisitions, business disposals and the drawing and repayment of financing.
The table below reconciles underlying operating profit, The table below reconciles free cash flow, as the Group as the Group defines it, to what the Group believes is defines it, to what the Group believes is the corresponding the corresponding UK GAAP measure, which is Group UK GAAP measure, which is cash outflow before operating profit.
management of liquid resources and financing.
2004 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 m m m m m m Group operating profit 805 699 866 Cash inflow outflow Add back: before the use of liquid Goodwill intangibles resources and financing 179 2,580 309 amortisation 139 129 64 Add back: Exceptional operating Cash flows from items 17122453 acquisitions and disposals 502,752624 Underlying operating profit 1,115 1,052 983 Free cash flow 229 172 315 A reconciliation to underlying earnings per share to the corresponding UK GAAP measure is set out in Note 9 b.
104 Cadbury Schweppes Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004
