Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Nature of Operations and Accounting Policies a Nature of operations and geographical results Cadbury Schweppes plc the Company and its subsidiaries and associated undertakings the Group is an international confectionery and beverage company with operations in almost every country in the world.
The origins of the business stretch back over 200 years.
Cadbury Schweppes has a broad portfolio of well established regional and local brands which include Cadbury, Trident, Halls, Dentyne and Hollywood in the confectionery business and Dr Pepper, Seven Up, Schweppes, Snapple, Hawaiian Punch, Motts and Orangina in the beverages business.
Significant measures used by management in assessing geographical performance include turnover, underlying operating profit operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill intangibles amortisation and underlying operating margins operating margins before exceptional items and goodwill intangibles amortisation.
The profit and loss account has been presented in columnar format to show clearly these items.
The basis of accounting for these measures is UK generally accepted accounting principles.
The Groups operational management structure has five regions, each with its own leadership team.
These five regions, which are the Groups reportable segments are: Americas Beverages, Americas Confectionery, Europe Middle East and Africa EMEA, Europe Beverages and Asia Pacific.
Americas Beverages and Europe Beverages market, produce and distribute branded soft drinks in their respective geographical markets.
Americas Confectionery and EMEA produce and distribute confectionery products in their respective geographical markets.
The Asia Pacific segment is an aggregation of the confectionery and beverages operations in the Asia Pacific region.
The Groups management structure within each region is aligned along geographical lines.
Regional teams manage the segments as strategic business units.
They are managed separately because of the differing market conditions and consumers tastes in the different geographies, which require differing branded products and marketing strategies.
The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies.
b Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention modified for the revaluation of certain land and buildings.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards all of which have been applied consistently throughout the three years in the period to 2 January 2005, except the Group has adopted UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
Shares purchased through Employee Share Option Trusts ESOPs are taken as a deduction in arriving at Shareholders Funds.
Previously these were held within investments.
The balance sheets as at 28 December 2003 have been restated to reflect this change in accounting policy.
The impact on the profit and loss account has been immaterial.
c Financial year The financial statements are made up to the Sunday nearest to 31 December.
Periodically this results in a financial year of 53 weeks.
The profit and loss accounts cover the 53 weeks from 29 December 2003 to 2 January 2005, the 52 weeks from 30 December 2002 to 28 December 2003 and the 52 weeks from 31 December 2001 to 29 December 2002.
The balance sheets for 2004 and 2003 have been drawn up as at 2 January 2005 and 28 December 2003 respectively.
d Basis of consolidation The financial statements are presented in the form of Group financial statements and no profit and loss account is presented for Cadbury Schweppes plc itself as the exemption in Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 applies.
The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of the parent company and its subsidiary undertakings after eliminating internal transactions and recognising the minority interests in those subsidiary undertakings.
e Acquisition or disposal of subsidiary undertakings Results of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the financial year are included in Group profit from the effective date of control and those of undertakings disposed of up to the effective date of disposal.
For this purpose the separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the fair value to the Group as at the effective date of control.
In calculating the gain or loss on disposal of a subsidiary undertaking the Group makes accruals for legal fees and other liabilities that it expects will arise as a consequence of the disposal including the costs of defending itself against future claims.
f Foreign currencies Transaction differences arising from exchange rate variations on trading transactions are included within operating profits.
Overseas profits remitted to the UK during the year are recorded at average rates.
The functional currency of each of the Companys subsidiaries is the local currency in which each subsidiary is located, or the US dollar where this is deemed to be the local functional currency.
Only the subsidiary in Lebanon deemed the US dollar to be its functional local currency and therefore Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2004 Cadbury Schweppes 99
