Ancillary information Description of business Australia & Asia Pacic General development of business Hanson Australia is a major supplier of construction materials to the Hanson became a business focused purely on building materials Australian market.
Its operations are divided into two operating groups: in 1997 following the demerger of the old Hanson conglomerate.
Hanson Construction Materials, which produces ready-mixed concrete, The major building materials companies remaining within Hanson aggregates and asphalt: and Hanson Building Products, which produces at the time were ARC, Hanson Brick and Cornerstone.
blocks, pavers and retaining walls.
Its other major interests include i its 25% share in Cement Australia Holdings Pty Ltd, jointly owned with Hanson management transformed the business into a world leading Rinker Group Ltd and Holcim Ltd, which operates cement plants in building materials company.
This involved a series of disposals and New South Wales, Tasmania and Queensland, and ii Pioneer Road acquisitions, the largest of which was the acquisition of the Australian Services Pty Ltd, jointly owned with Shell Australia Ltd, which operates construction materials business, Pioneer International, in May 2000. as an asphalt and contracting business.
Following a series of restructuring, Hanson now operates as four Hanson Asia Pacic operates in the south east Pacic region, identiable trading regions: Hanson North America 42.3% of 2004 principally in Malaysia, Hong Kong and Singapore.
continuing turnover, Hanson UK 31.3% of 2004 continuing turnover, Hanson Australia & Asia Pacic 19.1% of 2004 continuing turnover, Continental Europe and Hanson Continental Europe 7.3% of 2004 continuing turnover.
Hanson Continental Europe operates various aggregates, ready-mixed concrete and asphalt operations in Spain, the Czech This structure reinforces a continued focus on our core values of cost Republic, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Germany and Israel.
and margin control, together with disciplined and proactive growth via capital expenditure and bolt-on acquisitions.
Additional information Exchange Rates North America The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the average Hansons North American operations are organised into two operating noon buying rates in US dollars per 1 to the nearest cent, calculated groups, Hanson Aggregates North America and Hanson Building by using the average of the exchange rates on the last day of each full Products North America, with a corporate ofce in Neptune, New Jersey.
calendar month during the period.
Average a Hanson Aggregates North America Year ended December 31, 2000 1.51 Hanson Aggregates North America, headquartered in Dallas, Texas Year ended December 31, 2001 1.44 produces aggregates, asphalt, cement and ready-mixed concrete and Year ended December 31, 2002 1.51 has over 350 operating locations throughout the USA.
Year ended December 31, 2003 1.65 b Hanson Building Products North America Year ended December 31, 2004 1.84 Hanson Building Products North America, headquartered in Dallas, Year ending December 31, 2005 through February 22, 2005 1.86 Texas, is divided into two sub-groups, Pipe & Products and Brick & Tile.
Pipe & Products, also headquartered in Dallas, produces concrete pipes, The following table sets forth the high and low noon buying rates related drainage products and precast concrete products for the US and for the last six months in US dollars per 1 to the nearest cent.
Brick & Tile, with its headquarters in Charlotte, North High Low Carolina, produces clay bricks for the US and Canadian markets from August 2004 1.85 1.79 its principal manufacturing plants in Canada, Texas, and the Carolinas September 2004 1.81 1.77 as well as having roof tile plants in Florida, California, Texas and Arizona.
October 2004 1.84 1.78 UK November 2004 1.91 1.83 Hanson reports as two groups in the UK, Hanson Aggregates UK December 2004 1.95 1.91 and Hanson Buildings Products UK.
January 2005 1.91 1.86 February 2005 through February 22, 2005 1.90 1.86 a Hanson Aggregates UK Hanson Aggregates UK produces aggregates, ready-mixed concrete Business overview and asphalt in the UK.
In addition, Hanson Aggregates UK is a partner Seasonality in a number of joint-venture companies in the UK, the most significant Seasonality is a significant factor affecting all of our operations.
of which is Midland Quarry Products Limited, owned jointly with a member In our major markets in the USA, the UK and northern Continental Europe, of the Tarmac group of companies.
activity is very much concentrated during the period between March and November, while the winter in Australia and the rainy season and Chinese Included within Hanson Aggregates UK are Hansons marine dredging New Year in Asia Pacic cause a material slow-down in operations during operations which, through a wholly owned subsidiary and United Marine these periods.
Unusual weather patterns, in particular heavy and sustained Holdings Limited, a joint-venture with a member of the Tarmac group rainfall during peak construction periods, can cause significant delays of companies, supply sea-dredged aggregates to the UK, Belgium, and have an adverse impact on our businesses.
Sources and availability of raw materials b Hanson Building Products UK We generally own or lease the real estate on which the raw materials, Hanson Building Products UK supplies bricks, concrete pipes, namely aggregates and clay reserves, essential to our main businesses manholes, blocks, ooring, precast concrete and packed aggregates are found, although in the case of the marine businesses of Hanson products throughout the UK.
Aggregates UK and Hanson Aggregates North America, we operate under licences from the relevant national and local authorities.
Ancillary information 99 Ancillary information continued We are also a significant purchaser of certain important materials such Approximately 100 present and former US operating sites, or portions as cement, bitumen, steel, gas, fuel and other energy supplies, the cost thereof, currently or previously owned and or leased by current or former of which can uctuate by material amounts and consequently have an companies acquired by Hanson responsibility for which remains with adverse impact on our businesses.
We are not generally dependent on a member of the Hanson group are the subject of claims, investigations, any one source for the supply of these products, other than in certain monitoring or remediation under the US federal Comprehensive jurisdictions with regard to the supply of gas and electricity.
Competitive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act CERCLA, markets generally exist in the jurisdictions in which we operate for the the US federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act or comparable supply of cement, bitumen, steel and fuel.
In 2004, percentage price US state statutes or agreements with third parties.
These proceedings changes in the cement market ranged from a 2%-9% increase.
Bitumen are in various stages ranging from initial enquiries to active settlement prices are affected by general oil price changes.
In 2004, percentage negotiations to implementation of response actions.
In addition, a number price changes in the bitumen market ranged from a decrease of 15% of present and former Hanson operating units responsibility for which to an increase of 7%.
remains with a member of the Hanson group have been named as Potentially Responsible Parties PRPs at approximately 40 off-site Sales and marketing landlls under CERCLA or comparable state statutes.
In each of these Although sales and marketing activities are more important in connection matters the Hanson operating unit is working with the governmental with our brick business in both the USA and the UK, where branding agencies involved and other PRPs to address environmental claims of the product is a factor, in general the nature of our major products, in a responsible and appropriate manner.
A substantial majority of these i. e. rock, sand, gravel, ready-mixed concrete and concrete products, operating and landll sites are covered by the environmental insurance and the cost of transportation means that marketing and selling is policy referred to under the heading Material Contracts referred to below.
conducted on a more localised basis, with an emphasis on service and delivery.
Sales and marketing costs tend to be relatively low in relation We do not believe that any of the proceedings relating to operating to the overall delivered price of our products.
sites and off-site landlls not covered by the environmental insurance policy will materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or Competitive position results of operations.
At December 31, 2004, we had accrued 225.4m Statements relating to Hansons position as one of the worlds leading for environmental obligations, including legal and other costs, at such heavy building materials companies, the worlds largest producer of sites as are not covered by the above-mentioned environmental insurance aggregates and one of the largest producers of heavy building products policy.
Costs associated with environmental assessments and remediation are based on management estimates.
efforts are accrued when determined to represent a probable loss and to be capable of being reasonably estimated.
There can be no assurance Governmental regulation including environmental that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not differ materially Many products produced by our operating units are subject to from our estimates.
government regulation in various jurisdictions regarding production and sale.
We believe that our operating units have taken, and continue to take, We cannot predict whether future developments in laws and measures to comply with applicable laws and government regulations in regulations concerning environmental and health and safety protection the jurisdictions in which we operate so that the risk of sanctions does will affect our earnings or cash ow in a materially adverse manner or not represent a material threat to any of the operating units individually whether our operating units will be successful in meeting future demands or to Hanson as a whole.
We also believe that compliance with these of regulatory agencies in a manner which will not materially adversely regulations does not substantially affect the ability of our subsidiaries affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.
to compete with similarly situated companies.
For other legal proceedings against Hanson, see note 27 of the In addition to the regulatory framework described above, our operating Notes to the accounts.
units are subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local agencies concerning such matters as zoning, environmental and health Patents and trademarks and safety compliance.
In addition, numerous governmental permits and Our operating units have various patents, registered trademarks, trade approvals are required for our operations.
We believe that our operating names and trade secrets and applications for, or licences in respect units are currently operating in substantial compliance with, or under of, the same that relate to various businesses.
We believe that certain approved variances from, various national, state and local regulations.
of these intellectual property rights are of material importance to the We do not believe that such compliance will materially adversely affect businesses to which they relate.
We believe that the material patents, our business or results of operations.
In the past, our subsidiaries have trademarks, trade names and trade secrets of our operating subsidiaries made significant capital and maintenance expenditures to comply with and divisions are adequately protected and that the expiration of patents zoning, water, air and solid and hazardous waste regulations and these and patent licences will not have a material adverse effect upon our subsidiaries may be required to do so in the future.
From time to time, business, financial condition or results of operations.
various agencies may serve cease and desist orders or notices of violation on an operating unit or deny its applications for certain licences or permits, Employees in each case alleging that the practices of the operating unit are not As at December 31, 2004, Hanson PLC employed 23,800 employees.
consistent with the regulations or ordinances.
In some cases, the relevant An analysis of employee numbers by business and geographical area operating unit may seek to meet with the agency to determine mutually is found in note 4 of the Notes to the accounts.
We believe that in general acceptable methods of modifying or eliminating the practice in question.
our relationship with our employees and trade unions or other bodies We believe that our operating units should be able to achieve compliance representing our employees is good.
with the applicable regulations and ordinances in a manner which should not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition Property, plants and equipment or results of operations.
As of December 31, 2004, our operating units owned 1,121 plants and other freehold properties, of which 486 were located in North America, 297 were located in the UK, 295 were located in Australia and Asia and 43 were located in Continental Europe.
The remaining properties of our operating units throughout the world, including other manufacturing facilities, warehouses, stores and ofces, were leased.
None of the individual properties is considered to have a value that is of major signicance in relation to our assets as a whole.
For a description of certain environmental issues that may affect our utilisation of our assets, see under the heading Governmental regulation including environmental referred to above.
100 Ancillary information Ancillary information continued Material contracts The discussion does not consider the tax treatment of beneciaries For details relating to the Deposit Agreement under which the Hanson of trusts or estates, partnerships or other pass-through entities or ADSs were issued, the indentures under which the groups public bonds persons who hold ordinary shares or ADSs through a partnership were issued and various agreements and indemnities relating to the or other pass-through entity.
Demergers, see under the heading Exhibits included in Hanson PLCs 2004 Annual Report and Form 20-F led with the Securities and This discussion does not address all aspects of US federal income taxation, Exchange Commission.
such as US federal gift or estate tax, nor state or local taxation.
It does not address the tax consequences for financial institutions, financial services In August 1998, an agreement was reached under which, for a one-off entities, insurance companies, dealers in securities or foreign currencies, premium and related transaction costs totalling $275.0m, insurance cover persons subject to the alternative minimum tax, persons owning directly, of $800m after payment by the group of the first $100m of remediation indirectly or by attribution five per cent.
or more of the total combined costs arising since January 1, 1998 was available to meet the costs voting power of the stock of Hanson, persons carrying on a trade or of remediating the environmental liabilities relating to the former Koppers business in the UK through a permanent establishment, persons who company operations of Beazer plc Beazer acquired by Hanson in acquired ordinary shares or ADSs as compensation, persons who elect 1991.
The insurance cover provided by the subsidiaries of two leading mark-to-market accounting, tax-exempt entities or private foundations, reinsurance companies, centre Solutions a member of the Zurich Group persons that hold the ordinary shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, and Swiss Re.
Administration of the environmental remediation programme hedge, constructive sale or conversion transaction or other integrated will continue to be carried out by Beazer.
transaction, persons whose functional currency is other than the US dollar, certain expatriates or former long-term residents of the USA or holders On March 29, 2001, we entered into a 900.0m as subsequently who elected to apply the provisions of the former income tax convention reduced to 829.1m multi-currency revolving credit facility arranged between the USA and the UK.
by Barclays Capital and J P Morgan PLC with a syndicate of banks.
Tranche A of the facility is now available in an amount of up to 519.2m, US shareholders and holders of Hanson ADSs should consult their is available for cash advances in various currencies, incorporates a tax advisors with regard to the application of the US federal income tax US$646.8m swingline advance facility and a sub-limit of up to 300.0m laws to their particular situation, as well as any tax consequences arising for Australian dollar loan note advances, and matures on March 29, 2006. under the laws of any state, local or foreign taxing jurisdiction.
Tranche B of the facility was available in an amount of 259.9m, but was not extended in March 2004 in anticipation of us entering into a Considerations Relevant to the ADSs and ordinary shares new US $475m facility arranged by Banc of America Securities Limited US shareholders of ADSs are not members of the Company but and Citigroup Global Markets Limited with a syndicate of banks, may instruct Citibank N. A. the Depositary, as to the exercise of voting subsequently executed, on July 30, 2004, for a period of five years.
rights pertaining to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
However, US shareholders of ADSs are generally treated as the Exchange controls owners of the underlying ordinary shares for purposes of the US-UK There are no UK restrictions on the import or export of capital including double taxation conventions relating to income and gains the UK-US foreign exchange controls that affect the remittances of dividends or income tax treaty and to estate and gift taxes the Estate and Gift Tax other payments to non-resident holders of ordinary shares except as Convention and generally for purposes of US federal income tax law, otherwise set forth in Taxation information for US shareholders below and for purposes of the US federal tax laws.
and except for certain restrictions imposed from time to time by HM Treasury pursuant to legislation such as The United Nations Act 1946 Taxation of Dividends and the Emergency Laws Act 1964 against the Government or residents Subject to the discussion below under the heading Passive Foreign of certain countries.
Investment Company Considerations, a US shareholder will be required to include in gross income as ordinary income the amount of any dividend Except for the general limitations contained in the Companys paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs on the date the dividend is received Memorandum and Articles of Association and in the Deposit Agreement to the extent the dividend is paid out of our current or accumulated governing the Companys ADSs, and certain restrictions that may be earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
imposed from time to time by HM Treasury under legislation as described Dividends in excess of these earnings and profits will be applied against, above, under English law and Hansons Memorandum and Articles of and will reduce, the US shareholders basis in the ADSs or ordinary shares Association, persons who are neither residents nor nationals of the UK and, to the extent in excess of such basis, will be treated as gain from the may freely hold, vote and transfer ordinary shares in the same manner sale or exchange of such ADSs or ordinary shares.
In addition, dividends as UK residents or nationals.
of current or accumulated earnings and profits will be foreign source passive income for US foreign tax credit purposes and will not qualify Taxation information for US shareholders for the dividends-received deduction otherwise available to corporations.
The following paragraphs are intended as a general guide only and do not purport to be a complete technical analysis or listing of all potential Dividends paid out of current or accumulated earnings in foreign currency tax effects relevant to the ADSs or the ordinary shares.
The statements to a US shareholder will be includable in the income of a US shareholder of US federal tax laws set forth below are based on provisions of the in a US dollar amount calculated by reference to the exchange rate on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, current and proposed date the dividend is received, regardless of whether the dividend is in fact US Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative converted into US dollars on such date.
A US shareholder that receives and judicial decisions, all of which are subject to change, possibly a foreign currency dividend and converts the foreign currency into on a retrospective basis.
US dollars subsequent to receipt will have foreign exchange gain or loss based on any appreciation or depreciation in the value of the foreign This discussion addresses only US shareholders that beneficially own currency against the US dollar, which will generally be US source ordinary and hold ADSs or ordinary shares as capital assets and use the US dollar income or loss.
as their functional currency, and that are either a citizen or resident of the USA for US federal income tax purposes, or a corporation, or other entity treated as a corporation for US federal income tax purposes, created or organised under the laws of the USA or any political subdivision thereof, or an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its sources, or a trust, if a court within the USA is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust each a US shareholder for the purposes of this discussion.
Ancillary information 101 Ancillary information continued An individual US shareholders qualied dividend income is subject If the ordinary shares or ADSs are publicly traded, a disposition to tax at a reduced rate of tax of 15%.
For this purpose, qualied of such ordinary shares or ADSs will be considered to occur on the dividend income includes dividends from foreign corporations if a trade date, regardless of the US shareholders method of accounting.
the stock of such corporation with respect to which such dividend is A US shareholder that uses the cash method of accounting calculates paid is readily tradable on an established securities market in the USA, the US dollar value of the proceeds received on the sale as of the date including NASDAQ, or b such corporation is eligible for the benets that the sale settles.
However, a US shareholder that uses the accrual of a comprehensive tax treaty with the USA that includes an information method of accounting is required to calculate the value of the proceeds exchange programme and is determined to be satisfactory to the of the sale as of the trade date and, therefore, may realise foreign US Secretary of the Treasury.
The US Secretary of the Treasury has currency gain or loss, unless such US shareholder has elected to indicated that the UK-US income tax treaty which came into effect use the settlement date to determine its proceeds of sale for purposes on March 31, 2003 the Treaty is satisfactory for this purpose.
of calculating such foreign currency gain or loss.
In addition, a US Dividends will not however qualify for the reduced rate if such shareholder that receives foreign currency upon the sale or exchange corporation is treated for the tax year in which dividends are paid of the ordinary shares or ADSs and converts the foreign currency or in the prior year as a foreign investment company, a foreign into US dollars subsequent to receipt will have foreign exchange gain personal holding company, or a passive foreign investment company or loss based on an appreciation or depreciation in the value of the for US federal income tax purposes.
Based on the nature of Hansons foreign currency against the US dollar.
Foreign exchange gain or operations, Hanson does not believe that it would be treated as a loss will generally be US source ordinary income or loss.
foreign investment company, or a foreign personal holding company.
Recently enacted US federal income tax legislation repealed the foreign A US citizen who is resident or in certain circumstance has been investment company and foreign personal holding company provisions resident within the previous five UK years of assessment for tax effective for tax years of the foreign corporation beginning after or ordinarily resident in the UK or a US corporation which is resident December 31, 2004.
Although Hanson does not believe it is a passive in the UK by reason of being managed and controlled in the UK or foreign investment company, see the discussion below under the a US citizen who, or US corporation which, is trading in the UK through heading Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.
a branch or agency and has used, held or acquired ADSs or ordinary Accordingly, if Hansons beliefs are correct, dividend distributions with shares for the purposes of such trade, branch or agency, may be respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs should be treated as qualied liable for both UK and US tax on any gain on the disposal of ADSs dividend income and subject to the US shareholders satisfaction of or ordinary shares.
Subject to certain limitations, such a person will the holding period requirements described below, should be eligible generally be entitled to a tax credit against any US federal tax liability for the reduced 15% US federal income tax rate.
A US shareholder for the amount of any UK tax namely, capital gains tax in the case will not be entitled to the reduced rate: a if the US shareholder has of an individual and corporation tax on chargeable gains in the case not held the ordinary shares or ADSs for at least 61 days of the of a corporation which is paid in respect of such gain.
121-day period beginning on the date which is 60 days before the ex-dividend date: or b to the extent the US shareholder is under an Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations obligation to make related payments on substantially similar or related Adverse tax rules apply to shareholders in a passive foreign investment property.
Any days during which a US shareholder has diminished its company a PFIC.
Hanson will be a PFIC for US federal income tax risk of loss on the ordinary shares or ADSs are not counted towards purposes if 75% or more of its gross income in a taxable year, including meeting the 61-day holding period required by the statute.
The UK the pro rata share of the gross income of any US or foreign company does not currently apply a withholding tax on dividends under its in which it is considered to own 25% or more of the shares by value, internal laws.
However, if such a withholding tax were introduced, is passive income.
Hanson will also be considered to be a PFIC if at the UK would be entitled, under the Treaty, in certain circumstances least 50% of its assets in a taxable year, averaged over the year and to impose a withholding tax at a rate of up to 15% on dividends paid ordinarily determined based on fair market value and including the pro to a US shareholder.
Subject to applicable limitations, a US shareholder rata share of the assets of any US or foreign company in which Hanson who was subject to any such withholding should be entitled to claim a is considered to own 25% or more of the shares by value, are held deduction for withheld tax or, subject to the holding period requirements for the production of, or produce, passive income.
mentioned below, a credit for such withholding tax against such holders US federal income tax liability.
The US foreign tax credit limitation may The Directors believe that Hanson was not a PFIC in 2004 and that be reduced to the extent that dividends are eligible for the reduced Hanson will not be a PFIC in 2005.
However, the tests for determining rate described above.
PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this Taxation of Capital Gains determination.
Accordingly, there can be no assurance that Hanson Upon a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs, will not become a PFIC.
In particular, depending upon the composition a US shareholder will recognise gain or loss for US federal income of Hansons assets and other factors, including Hansons market tax purposes in an amount equal to the difference between the capitalisation, there is a possibility that Hanson may become a PFIC US dollar value of the amount realised and the US shareholders tax for 2005.
If Hanson was a PFIC, a US shareholder would be required basis determined in US dollars in such ordinary shares or ADSs.
to complete IRS Form 8621 with the US shareholders US federal Generally, such gain or loss will be capital gain or loss and will be income tax return each year.
If Hanson was a PFIC and a US long-term capital gain or loss if the US shareholders holding period shareholder did not make an election to treat Hanson as a qualied for such ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
Any such gain electing fund, as described on the following page: or loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the US excess distributions by Hanson to a US shareholder would be for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Long-term capital gain of taxed in a special way.
Excess distributions are amounts received a non-corporate US shareholder is generally subject to a maximum by a US shareholder in respect of the shares in a PFIC in any tax rate of 15%.
The deductibility of a capital loss recognised on the taxable year that exceed 125% of the average distributions received sale or exchange of ordinary shares or ADSs is subject to limitations.
by that shareholder from the PFIC in the shorter of either the three previous years or the US shareholders holding period for the PFIC shares before the present taxable year.
Excess distributions must be allocated ratably to each day that a US shareholder has held shares in the PFIC.
A US shareholder must include in gross income amounts allocated to the current taxable year and amounts allocable to certain years prior to Hanson becoming a PFIC, as ordinary income for that year.
A US shareholder must pay tax on amounts allocated to other taxable years when Hanson was a PFIC at the highest rate in effect for that year on ordinary income, and the tax is subject to an interest charge at the rate applicable to deficiencies for income tax: 102 Ancillary information Ancillary information continued the entire amount of gain that was realised by a US shareholder upon of any tax paid in the United Kingdom against the US federal tax liability the sale or other disposition of shares in a PFIC will also be treated or for tax paid in the USA to be credited against the United Kingdom as an excess distribution and will be subject to tax as described above: liability according to rules set out in the Convention in a case where a US shareholders tax basis in shares in a PFIC that were acquired the ADS or ordinary share is subject both to UK inheritance tax and to from a decedent would not receive a step-up to fair market value US federal gift or estate tax.
as of the date of the decedents death but would instead be equal to the decedents basis, if lower.
Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax The special PFIC rules described above will not apply to a US shareholder Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable at the rate if an election is made to treat Hanson as a qualied electing fund a QEF, of 1.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5, on any instrument transferring in the first taxable year in which a the US shareholder holds either ADSs ordinary shares to the Custodian of the Depositary on the value of such or ordinary shares, b Hanson is a PFIC, and c Hanson complies with ordinary shares.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, certain reporting requirements.
Instead, a shareholder of a QEF is required any tax or duty payable by the Depositary or the Custodian of the for each taxable year to include in income a pro rata share of the ordinary Depositary on future deposits of ordinary shares may be charged by the earnings of the QEF as ordinary income and a pro rata share of the net Depositary to the party to whom ADRs are delivered against such deposits.
capital gain of the QEF as long-term capital gain, subject to a separate election to defer payment of taxes, which deferral is subject to an interest No UK stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of an ADR evidencing charge.
A US shareholder of PFIC stock that is publicly traded could an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument of transfer elect to mark the stock to market annually, recognising as ordinary income is executed and retained at all times outside the UK and is not required or loss each year an amount equal to the difference as at the close of to be admitted in evidence in any proceedings in the United Kingdom.
the taxable year between the fair market value of the PFIC stock and A transfer of an ADR evidencing an ADS in the United Kingdom could the adjusted basis of the PFIC stock.
Losses would be allowed only attract stamp duty at a rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5. to the extent of net mark-to-market gain previously included by the Any transfer which will include a transfer from the Depositary to an US shareholder under the election for prior taxable years.
If the ADS holder of the underlying ordinary shares could result in a stamp mark-to-market election were made, then the rules set forth above duty liability at the rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5.
On a would not apply for periods covered by the election.
transfer from a nominee to the beneficial owner the nominee having at all times held the ordinary shares on behalf of the beneficial owner The Directors can give no assurance that Hanson will have timely under which no beneficial interest passes and which is neither a sale knowledge of its future status as a PFIC.
In this regard, Hanson does nor arises under a contract of sale nor is in contemplation of sale, a xed not assume any obligation to make timely disclosure with respect to such 5 stamp duty will be payable.
The amount of stamp duty or stamp duty status.
Moreover, the Directors do not plan to provide US shareholders reserve tax payable is generally calculated at the applicable rate on the with the necessary information to make a QEF election.
Consequently, purchase price of the ordinary shares.
as a practical matter, US shareholders should assume that they will not be able to make a QEF election.
A US shareholder who holds ADSs Stamp duty reserve tax at a rate of 0.5% will be payable on any or ordinary shares during a period in which Hanson is a PFIC will be agreement to transfer ordinary shares or any interest therein unless subject to the foregoing rules, even if Hanson ceases to be a PFIC.
an instrument transferring the ordinary shares is executed and stamp US shareholders should consult their tax advisors about the PFIC rules, duty at a rate of 0.5%, rounded up to the nearest 5 has been paid.
including the consequences to them of making a mark-to-market or Stamp duty reserve tax will not be payable on any agreement to transfer QEF election with respect to ADSs or ordinary shares in the event that ADRs representing ADSs.
Incorporation of the Company US Information Reporting and Backup Withholding Hanson PLC is a public limited company incorporated on December 31, A US shareholder is generally subject to information reporting 2002 in England and Wales.
requirements with respect to dividends paid in the USA on ADSs or ordinary shares.
In addition, a US shareholder is subject to backup Memorandum and Articles of Association withholding currently at a rate of 28% on dividends paid in the USA A summary of certain provisions of the Companys Memorandum and on ADSs or ordinary shares unless the US shareholder provides an Articles of Association and a summary description of certain provisions IRS Form W-9 or otherwise establishes an exemption.
A US shareholder of the Deposit Agreement relating to the Companys ADSs was included is subject to information reporting and backup withholding currently in the Report on Form 6-K dated November 11, 2003 which was led at a rate of 28% on proceeds paid from a sale, exchange, redemption with the SEC.
The information set forth in the Report on Form 6-K dated or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares unless the US shareholder November 11, 2003 which was incorporated by reference in certain provides an IRS Form W-9 or otherwise establishes an exemption.
Registration Statements is incorporated herein by reference.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
The amount of any Registered ofce backup withholding will be allowed as a credit against a US shareholders 1 Grosvenor Place US federal income tax liability and may entitle such holder to a refund, London SW1X 7JH provided that certain information is furnished on a timely basis to the IRS.
Telephone 44 0 20 7245 1245 Inheritance Tax The United Kingdom imposes inheritance tax, broadly, on transfers Documents on display of capital which occur on death and in the preceding seven years.
Hanson furnishes annual and special reports and other information The UK Inland Revenue is known to consider that the Estate and Gift Tax with the SEC.
These documents may be read and copied at the SECs Convention applies to inheritance tax and it is understood that, in practice, Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, N. W. Washington DC 20549. both the UK Inland Revenue and the US Internal Revenue Service apply Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the the provisions of the Estate and Gift Tax Convention to inheritance tax.
public reference rooms and their copy charges.
Filings with the SEC are On this assumption, an ADS or ordinary share held by an individual who also available to the public from commercial document retrieval services is domiciled in, or a citizen of, the United States and is not a national of and on the website maintained by the SEC at www.
or domiciled in the United Kingdom will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individuals death or on a transfer of the ADS or ordinary share during the individuals lifetime except in the exceptional case where the ADS or ordinary share is part of the business property of a UK permanent establishment or an enterprise or pertains to a UK xed base of an individual used for the performance of independent personal services.
Special rules apply where an ADS or ordinary share is held in trust.
The Estate and Gift Tax Convention generally provides a credit for the amount Ancillary information 103
