Accounting policies Accounting convention The accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK accounting principles including applicable accounting standards, using the historical cost convention.
These differ in certain respects from accounting principles in the USA, a reconciliation to which is included in note 33 to the accounts.
A summary of the groups key accounting policies is set out below: Changes in accounting policy UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts UITF 38 requires the assets and liabilities of the groups ESOP trust to be recognised in the groups financial statements where there is fide facto control of those assets and liabilities.
The Companys own shares held by the ESOP trust are deducted at cost from shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally with employees.
UITF 38 is effective for periods ending on or after June 22, 2004 and supersedes UITF 13 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
Prior to the adoption of UITF 38 the Companys own shares held by the ESOP trust were recognised as an investment on the balance sheet at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value.
UITF Abstract 17 revised 2003 Employee share schemes UITF 17 revised 2003 supersedes UITF 17 revised 2000 and is effective for periods ending on or after June 22, 2004.
The abstract requires that the cost of awards to employees that take the form of shares or rights to shares should be recognised over the period to which the employees performance relates.
The charge recognised is based on the fair value of the shares at the date of grant less any contribution from the employee.
Impact on financial statements Compliance with UITF 38 and UITF 17 revised 2003 has reduced the 2003 xed asset investments by 8.9m, reduced other creditors by 15.8m and increased shareholders funds by 6.9m 3.9m.
The net profit for 2003 was decreased by 0.7m 2.2m.
The financial statements have been restated to reect these changes.
The estimated impact on the current years profit if UITF 38 and UITF 17 revised 2003 had not been adopted would be to decrease net profit by 2.0m.
The new abstracts have no impact on cash ows.
Basis of consolidation The accounting reference date of the Company is December 31.
The consolidated accounts incorporate the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries together with the groups share of the results of associated undertakings associates and joint-ventures using the equity and gross equity methods, respectively.
Acquisitions and disposals The results of companies and businesses acquired during the year are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
Upon the acquisition of a business the fair values that reect their condition at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting policies of businesses acquired into alignment with those of the group.
Where the consideration paid for a business exceeds the fair value of the net assets, the difference is treated as goodwill.
Since the adoption of FRS 10 on January 1, 1998, goodwill arising on acquisitions subsequent to December 31,1997 has been carried on the balance sheet and is amortised over the estimated economic life of the business or entity acquired up to a maximum of 20 years.
Goodwill written off to reserves prior to January 1, 1998 has not been reinstated.
On disposal of a business the profit or loss on disposal is determined after incorporating the attributable amount of any purchased goodwill, including any previously written off directly to reserves.
Turnover Turnover is recognised when all of the following conditions are met: evidence of a binding arrangement exists generally, purchase orders, products have been delivered or services have been rendered, there is no future performance required and amounts are collectable under normal payment terms.
Turnover represents the net amounts charged or chargeable in respect of services rendered and goods supplied, excluding inter company sales, value added tax and other sales taxes.
Turnover is recognised net of any discounts agreed with the customer.
Turnover on long-term construction contracts is recognised as the value of measured works, claims, and variations on contracts in the year that have been invoiced.
Claims and variations are only valued where they have been agreed with the client.
Where it is foreseen that a loss will arise to the group on a long-term contract, full provision is made for that loss during the year.
Assets held under leases Assets held under finance leases are included within xed assets at the capitalised value of the future minimum lease payments and are depreciated over the shorter of their lease period and their useful life.
The capital element of the future payments is treated as a liability and the interest element is charged to the profit and loss account so as to reect a constant annual rate of interest on the remaining balance of the outstanding obligation.
Rentals paid on operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the shorter of the lease period and the useful life of the leased asset.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future.
Deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint-ventures is recognised only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Current assets Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, on a first in first out basis.
Cost includes raw materials, direct labour and expenses, and an appropriate proportion of production and other overheads.
Full provision is made against slow moving stock based on historical experience.
Debtors are stated after deducting provision for doubtful debts.
Accounting policies 51 Accounting policies continued Tangible xed assets Tangible xed assets are shown at cost less depreciation, depletion and any impairments.
The cost of a tangible xed asset comprises its purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Costs to develop new commercial aggregate deposits and for major development programmes at existing sites are capitalised and amortised over the life of the quarry.
Repair and maintenance costs are charged to costs and overheads as incurred.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land except for mineral reserves which are depleted on the basis of tonnage extracted to a maximum of 50 years.
Depreciation of other xed assets is calculated to write off their cost over their expected useful lives allowing for estimated residual value.
The majority of xed assets are written off on a straight line basis over the following periods: Plant and equipment 2-30 years Land, buildings and natural resources up to 50 years Asset impairment Intangible and tangible assets are reviewed for potential impairment where there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, to ensure that assets are not carried at above their recoverable amounts.
An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying amount is not covered by the discounted cash ows resulting from continued use of the assets or, where the asset is expected to be sold in the future, from its net realisable value, and is charged to the profit and loss account.
Research and development Expenditure on development and improvement of new and existing products is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets The cost of providing pension and other post-retirement benets is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account over employee service lives.
Variances arising from actuarial valuations are charged or credited to profit over the estimated remaining service lives of the employees, to the extent that any resulting credit does not exceed the regular cost.
FRS 17 Retirement Benets requires the assets of a dened benefit pension scheme to be measured at their market value and the liabilities to be measured using a specified actuarial valuation method and discounted using a corporate bond rate.
Any pension scheme surplus or deficit arising is required to be recognised immediately on the group Balance Sheet.
Any resulting actuarial gains and losses must be recognised immediately in the group Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses.
Adoption of the standard in full is not currently required, however transitional disclosures have been complied with in note 29 of the Notes to the accounts.
Provisions Provisions are discounted, unless the impact of discounting would not be material.
Provisions for long-term obligations except deferred taxation are discounted at pre-tax debt rates.
Asset retirement obligations A provision is recognised for the fair value of enforceable asset retirement costs in the period in which the obligation is incurred.
An asset representing the cost of future benets to be received is recorded and depreciated over its useful life.
Other reclamation costs associated with the restoration of extracted aggregates are expensed as incurred.
Derivatives and financial instruments Financial instruments, in particular forward currency contracts and currency swaps, are used to manage the financial risks arising from the business activities of the group and the nancing of those activities.
There is no trading activity in financial instruments.
The group considers its financial instruments to be hedges when certain criteria are met.
The groups criteria for an instrument to qualify for hedge accounting are that the instrument must be related to an asset, liability or forecast cash ow, it must involve the same currency as the hedged item and it must offset the effect of movements in foreign exchange and or interest rates on the relevant asset, liability, cash ow or reported results of the group.
A discussion of how the financial risks are managed is included in the Financial review on pages 24 to 29.
Financial instruments are accounted for using hedge accounting as follows: Forward exchange contracts are used as balance sheet hedging instruments to hedge foreign currency investments and borrowings.
The difference between the spot and forward rate for these contracts is recognised as part of the net interest payable over the period of the contract.
The spot rate of foreign currency hedges is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and aggregate unrealised gains or losses arising on revaluation are included in other debtors other creditors.
Both realised and unrealised gains and losses on these contracts are taken to reserves to the extent that those contracts relate to foreign currency investments.
Cross currency interest rate swaps currency swaps are used to hedge foreign currency assets and borrowings.
The future currency exchange within such contracts is revalued to the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and any unrealised gain or loss is matched with that on the underlying asset or liability in reserves.
The interest coupon on such swaps is accrued in the same way as that on borrowings and deposits.
Interest rate swaps are used to hedge the groups exposure to movements in interest rates.
The interest payable or receivable on such swaps is accrued in the same way as interest arising on deposits or borrowings.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity.
Interest rate options are occasionally used to hedge the groups exposure to movements in interest rates.
Option premiums paid are recognised in the group balance sheet as prepayments and amortised over the life of the contract.
The aggregate fair values at the balance sheet date of the hedging instruments described above are disclosed in note 30 of the Notes to the accounts.
Foreign currencies Average rates of exchange ruling during the year have been used to translate the profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint-ventures.
52 Accounting policies Accounting policies continued The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries and associates are translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences on translation arising from changes in the sterling value of overseas net assets, related foreign currency loans, foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps at the beginning of the accounting year, or at the date of any later capital currency conversions, together with the differences between profit and loss accounts translated at average rates and at balance sheet rates, are shown as a movement on reserves and in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Other exchange rate differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account for the year.
The currencies which have principally affected the groups results and the relevant exchange rates over the past three years are: 2004 2003 2002 Average rates $ US 1.8294 1.6324 1.5016 euro 1.4738 1.4466 1.5921 $ AUS 2.4858 2.5211 2.7664 Year end rates $ US 1.9199 1.7738 1.6016 euro 1.4125 1.4243 1.5391 $ AUS 2.4491 2.3871 2.8553 Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Advertising costs Expenditure on advertising is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
Reclassications Certain prior period amounts have been reclassied to conform with current period presentation.
International Financial Reporting Standards As an EU-listed company, Hanson is required to adopt International Financial Reporting and Accounting Standards IFRS, from January 1, 2005.
We believe that our IFRS transition plans are well advanced.
In June 2005 we intend to reissue our audited 2004 half and full year results as restated for IFRS.
Hanson will also provide guidance for the first six months of 2005, in its trading statement in June 2005, under IFRS.
The adoption of IFRS will first apply to the groups financial statements for the half year ending June 30, 2005.
The groups IFRS transition is being overseen by an IFRS Steering Committee which includes board representation and the Audit Committee is regularly informed of the progress of the transition plans.
Our 2005 interim and annual reports will include restated 2004 comparatives and notes, to enable meaningful comparisons of current and prior year results.
The key differences between UK GAAP and IFRS as applicable to the group are set out below: Goodwill and asset impairment Under UK GAAP, goodwill is carried on the balance sheet and amortised on a straight line basis over its estimated economic life, normally assumed to be no more than 20 years.
Under IFRS, goodwill will not be amortised, but will be reviewed annually and where an indicator of impairment exists.
Goodwill deemed to be impaired will be required to be written down to its implied value.
Assets are reviewed for impairment under UK GAAP, where there is some indication that impairment may have occurred.
As far as is reasonably practicable, the smallest group of assets that generate independent income streams should be considered, after apportioning a share of the assets and liabilities of the entity.
Under IFRS, assets and groups of assets are also reviewed for impairment where there is some indication that impairment may have occurred, at the level of the smallest identiable group of assets that generates independent cash ows and after apportioning a share of centrally held assets.
Under the business combinations exemption in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, goodwill previously written off directly to reserves under UKGAAP is not recycled to the income statement on disposal or part-disposal of the subsidiary, joint-venture or associate as it would be under UKGAAP.
Pensions and other post-retirement benets Under UK GAAP, the cost of providing pension and other post-retirement benets is charged to the consolidated profit and loss account over employee service lives in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs.
Under IFRS, pensions and other post-retirement benefit plan assets and liabilities are carried at their fair value, at the balance sheet date.
The additional FRS 17 Retirement Benets disclosures give the pension fund surpluses and deficits and the liabilities for other retirement benets based on the valuation methodologies required by the Standard.
IAS 19 Employee Benets takes a similar valuation approach to FRS 17, and also permits entities to recognise the effects of any movements in the surpluses or deficits immediately, in common with FRS 17, or to introduce these movements gradually, using the corridor approach.
Derivative instruments and hedging activities The group enters into derivative instruments to limit its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risk.
Under UK GAAP, these instruments are measured at cost and accounted for as hedges, whereby gains and losses are deferred until the underlying transaction occurs.
Under IFRS, derivative instruments are recognised on the balance sheet at fair value.
In order to achieve hedge accounting, certain criteria must be established regarding documentation, designation and effectiveness of the hedge.
Deferred taxation Under UK GAAP, deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, except those specically excluded by FRS 19 Deferred tax, including those that relate to revaluations where no sale is in process, or where it is probable that rollover relief or losses will be applied to the gain.
Under IFRS, deferred taxation is provided on substantially all differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities except those arising from goodwill that is not deductible for tax purposes.
