GLOSSARYOFTERMS Unless the context indicatesotherwise, the followingterms have the meaningsshownbelow: Term Meaning ADR In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the term of ADSs  ADRs.
ADS In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the term of  ADSs.
Access A product group within endoscopy comprising fluid management and insufflationdevices forbetter surgicalaccess.
Advanced woundmanagement A product group comprising products associated with the treatment of skin products wounds, ranging from products that provide moist wound healing using breathable films and polymers to products providing active wound healing .
Arthroscopy Endoscopy of the joints is termed arthroscopy, with the principal applicationsbeingthe kneeandshoulder.
Cannula A sleeve which allows an entry point for surgeons to introduce endoscopic devices intoa bodycavity.
Casting A product group comprising products that are used externally to immobilise a bone fracture or damaged joint, usually made of plaster of paris orsyntheticmaterials.
 Chronic wounds are those with long or unknown healing times including leg ulcers, pressure sores and diabetic foot ulcers.
Acute wounds are those for which healing times can be reasonably predicted such as  wounds.
Company Smith & Nephew plc or, where appropriate, the Companys Board of Directors, unless the context otherwiserequires.
Class III medicaldevice A medical device that requires pre-market approval by the relevant regulatorybodyinthe US orEurope.
CompaniesAct CompaniesAct 1985, as amended, ofGreat Britain.
Debridement A medical treatment or surgical procedure to remove dead tissue and  froma woundtoaidhealing.
Endoscopy Endoscopy allows surgeons to operate through coin-sized openings in the body, ratherthanlarge incisions.
Endoscopyproducts A product group comprising specialised viewing and access devices, surgical instruments and powered equipment used in minimally invasive surgical procedures.
Through a small incision surgeons are able to see insidethe bodyusinga .
Euroor References to the commoncurrencyused in the majority of the countriesof the EuropeanUnion.
External fixation The use of wires or pins transfixed through bone to hold the position of a fracture.
152 Term Meaning GrouporSmith& Nephew Used for convenience to refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwiserequires.
IDETprocedure Intradiscal Electrothermal Therapy IDET is a thermal procedure intended for the shrinkage and decompression of the spinal disc to treat patients .
IFRS andIAS International Financial Reporting Standards and International Accounting Standards issued bythe  Board.
Insufflation The use of carbon dioxide to inflate body cavities during endoscopic surgerytoenable .
 Stainless or titanium implants shaped like a nail implanted in the  fractures.
 A less invasive surgical approach to treating arthritis in younger patients whereby only the surfaces of the hip joint are replaced leaving the hip head substantially preserved.
Obturator A blunt or dull tipped instrument that gently introduces a cannula into a bodyorifice.
 Any product that is primarily intended to act as a scaffold and or actively stimulates bonegrowth.
Orthopaedicproducts Products that comprise implants, devices and systems to replace diseased or injured hip, knee and shoulder joints, and trauma devices such as rods, pins, screws, plates andexternal frames used totreat bonefractures.
Papainurea Papain urea is a compound of an enzyme extracted from papaya and an .
PoundSterling, Sterling, References toUK currency.
penceorp Rehabilitation A business segment comprising products equipment and systems used to increase, maintain or improve patient functional capabilities after surgery, .
Repair A product group within endoscopy comprising specialised devices, fixation systems and bioabsorbable materials to repair joints and associated tissue.
Resection Products that cut or ablate tissue within endoscopy comprising mechanical blades, radio frequency wands, electromechanical and hand instruments forresectingtissue.
SSAP A Statement ofStandard  ofUK GAAP.
Traditionalwoundcare Product group comprising medical textile products, adhesive tapes and fixative sheets  body.
UK GAAP  inthe United Kingdom.
US Dollars, US $ orcents References toUS currency.
US GAAP  inthe United States ofAmerica.
Visualisation Products within endoscopy comprising digital cameras, light sources, monitors, scopes, image capture, central control and multimedia broadcastingsystems foruse .
Woundbed Anarea ofhealthydermal andepidermal tissue ofa wound.
153 [THIS PAGE ] [THIS PAGE ] [THIS PAGE ]
