As a consequence of the Companys Ordinary Shares being traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares the directors are responsible for the preparation and filing of an annual report on Form 20-F with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The directors are required by UK company law to prepare accounts for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the results of the Group for the year.
In preparing the accounts, appropriate UK accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable UK accounting standards have been followed.
The directors have satisfied themselves  andavailable bankfacilitiesthat the Groupcontinuesas a goingconcern.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance of the Groups system of internal financial controls.
These are designed to give reasonable assurance that proper procedures exist for the maintenance of adequate accounting records, safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
To this end, the Company has identified and documented minimum internal financial control standards.
Annual budgets are prepared and approved by the directors, and the directors have reserved capital expenditure and treasury authority levels to the Board and its delegated committees.
The Group operates a system of regular monthly reporting including revised profit and cash forecasts.
Business risks are identified and monitored on a regular basis.
The Group operates an internal audit function which monitors the adequacy of internal financial controls and systems and compliance with Group standards.
The internal auditor provides a report to the Audit Committee annually and the Audit Committee reviews the operation and effectiveness of  Group.
A copy of the Annual Report is placed on the Smith & Nephew website.
It should be noted that information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governingthe  .
