C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 11 About Unilever continued Our brands include Comfort, Omo, Radiant, Skip, Snuggle and Technology and innovation Surf, and they are available in over 100 countries.
In 2004 Unilever spent 1 040 million on research and development, representing 2.6% of our turnover.
Our R&D Our household care products are designed to meet most cleaning groups respond to emerging consumer needs revealed in our and hygiene needs around the home.
In this category, our carefully researched consumer insights and supply a stream of heartland is Europe, where Cif and Domestos hold strong innovation.
positions in the key markets in which they operate.
Corporate Research and Unilever Technology Ventures search out Personal care and identify new technology, which is fed through to the We lead the global deodorants and skin cleansing markets, and divisional R&D programmes.
are in the top three in daily hair care and mass-market skin care.
Six global brands Axe, Dove, Lux, Ponds, Rexona and Sunsilk Foods and HPC also use external scientists who are at the are the core of our business in these categories.
They are forefront of their own elds to review their R&D programmes and complemented by Suave, mainly in North America, and health ensure that they are at the leading edge of scientific excellence.
brands such as Clear, Lifebuoy and Vaseline, together with a selection of regional and local jewels.
In Home Care, we continued to roll out new technologies under the Omo brand, including laundry bars optimised for great In oral care we have strong positions in a number of countries in cleaning performance in Africa and Asia.
The Radiant brand Europe and in developing and emerging markets, particularly with launched new formulations to improve fabric colour protection in our Signal and Close Up toothpaste brands.
Our global prestige fragrance business is based on the Calvin For our Comfort fabric conditioner we launched our first-ever Klein range, which includes cK one, Eternity and Obsession, unit dose conditioner capsules in the UK, while in Vietnam, we complemented by ranges developed with other designers.
launched a concentrated variant of Comfort.
Other operations Our Domestos bleach business returned to growth in 2004, To support our consumer brands, we have invested in tea thanks to an innovation leading to the thickest-ever bleach, plantations in India and Africa and palm oil plantations in Africa.
which was developed by our global technology centre in Italy.
Corporate venture activities In personal care, there have been important global initiatives.
In 2004 Unilever reviewed the progress of its venturing activities Dove has been relaunched with new graphics and packaging and decided to increase the funds available for investment to across skin, hair and deodorants.
Lux launched a new range of 250 million and to extend the period to five years 2002-2006. bars, with a step change in sensorial benets, together with These funds are invested in venturing activities to build business outstanding fragrances and new packaging.
Axe deodorant in opportunities that t our core business interests in Foods and North America now offers longer-lasting fragrances, while in Home and Personal Care.
Of this, we have committed 97 million other regions 24-7 and the new Touch variant have been to Langholm Capital Partners Fund, which invests in private launched.
European companies with above-average longer-term growth prospects.
It has invested in Physcience, a French natural food In oral care, the family brands Signal and Pepsodent were supplements business, and Noiro, the leading company in the relaunched, incorporating a new technology allowing extended mass prestige personal care market in Finland.
The design centre in Italy also launched two new toothbrushes: a top-performance brush with new bristle Up to 120 million will be invested over the five years, in two technology giving superior plaque removal and an affordable venture funds of our own, Unilever Ventures and Unilever four-pack of brushes launched from India.
Unilever Ventures acts as an early stage business development fund for businesses both from within We have also developed an internet-based system that will bring Unilever and from outside.
During 2004 its major new the power of the net to people in rural India as part of a investments have been in Alleggra, a healthy egg replacement marketing initiative in Hindustan Lever.
The pilot has been very business, Re-aqua Beauty Centres in the UK and the successful and the algorithms developed as part of this project are Biotechnology Application Centre in the Netherlands, a more widely applicable as a tool for consumer dialogue.
Unilever Technology Ventures invests in technology funds and start-up companies.
It has In savoury, R&D has been aligned to the new Vitality mission with invested in a life science and a materials science fund, as well as innovation in soups linked to naturalness and nutrition benets.
in companies working in haplotyping genomics technology, Innovations included the launch of chilled soups, together with systems biology, radio frequency identication, plant science and new pack formats.
Knorr innovations in cooking aids included water purication.
Cubitos seasoning cubes, powdered seasonings and meal makers, targeted at developing and emerging markets.
As at 31 December 2004 we have invested 100 million in all our venture activities.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11
