C11742 Unlvr AR eng 090-098. qxd 9 3 05 1:26 AM Page 96 Accounting information and policies Unilever The accounting policies of the Unilever Group are set out The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their on pages 96 to 98.
Material variations from United States group companies, operate as nearly as is practicable as a single generally accepted accounting principles are set out on entity the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the pages 154 to 159.
NV and PLC have the same Directors and are linked by a series of agreements, including an Equalisation Agreement, which Recent changes in reporting requirements under US GAAP are are designed so that the position of the shareholders of both discussed on page 159. companies is as nearly as possible the same as if they held shares in a single company.
OECD Guidelines In preparing its Annual Review and Annual Report and Accounts The Equalisation Agreement provides for both companies Unilever adheres to disclosure recommendations of the OECD to adopt the same accounting principles and requires as a general Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
rule the dividends and other rights and benets including rights on liquidation attaching to each Fl.
12 5.445 nominal of Group companies ordinary share capital of NV to be equal in value at the relevant Group companies are those companies in whose share capital rate of exchange to the dividends and other rights and benets NV or PLC holds an interest directly or indirectly, and whose attaching to each 1 nominal of ordinary share capital of PLC, as consolidation is required for the accounts to give a true and if each such unit of capital formed part of the ordinary capital of fair view.
For additional information please refer to Corporate governance on page 52.
In order that the consolidated accounts should present a true and fair view, it is necessary to differ from the presentational Basis of consolidation requirements of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 by Due to the operational and contractual arrangements referred to including amounts attributable to both NV and PLC shareholders above ensuring unity of management of NV and PLC and the in the capital and reserves shown in the balance sheet.
The internal participating interests set out in note 22 on page 132, NV Companies Act would require presentation of the capital and and PLC and their group companies constitute a single group reserves attributable to NV and PLC shareholders as minority under Netherlands and United Kingdom legislation for the interests in the respective consolidated accounts of PLC and NV.
purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the This presentation would not give a true and fair view of the effect accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and of the Equalisation Agreement, under which the position of all PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
These accounts are shareholders is as nearly as possible the same as if they held supplemented in notes 23 and 24 on page 133 and note 32 on shares in a single company.
page 148 by additional information for the NV and PLC parts of the Group in which group companies are consolidated according Net profit and result for the year retained are presented on a to respective ownership.
combined basis on page 99, with the net profit attributable to NV and PLC shown separately.
Movements in profit retained are Companies legislation analysed between those attributable to NV and PLC in note 23 The consolidated accounts of the Unilever Group comply with on page 133.
Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
The consolidated accounts of the Foreign currencies Unilever Group also comply with accounting standards generally Exchange differences arising in the accounts of individual accepted in the United Kingdom, as allowed by Article 362.1 companies are dealt with in their respective profit and loss of Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, unless such accounts.
Those arising on trading transactions are taken standards conict with the Civil Code in the Netherlands which to operating profit: those arising on cash, current investments would in such case prevail.
The company accounts, the notes to and borrowings are classied as interest.
those accounts and the further statutory information given for each of NV and PLC comply with legislation in the Netherlands In preparing the consolidated accounts, the profit and loss and the United Kingdom respectively.
As explained under Group account, the cash ow statement and all other movements in companies below, in order to give a true and fair view, the assets and liabilities are translated at annual average rates presentation of the consolidated capital and reserves differs from of exchange.
The balance sheet, other than the ordinary share that specified by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985. capital of NV and PLC, is translated at year-end rates of exchange.
In the case of hyper-inationary economies, which are those in Accounting standards which ination exceeds 100% cumulatively over a three-year The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention period, the accounts are adjusted to reect current price levels and comply in all material respects with legislation in the United and remove the inuences of ination before being translated.
Kingdom and the Netherlands and with United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
The ordinary share capital of NV and PLC is translated at the rate contained in the Equalisation Agreement of 1 Fl.
The difference between this and the value derived by applying the year-end rate of exchange is taken to other reserves see note 24 on page 133.
96 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
