C11742 Unlvr AR eng 090-098. qxd 9 3 05 1:27 AM Page 98 Accounting information and policies continued Derivative financial instruments Transfer pricing The types of derivative financial instruments used by Unilever are The preferred method for determining transfer prices for our own described in note 16 on page 120, in the Financial review on manufactured goods is to use the market price.
Where there is no page 22 and under Risk management on page 51.
Hedge market price, the companies concerned follow established accounting, as described below, is applied.
transfer pricing guidelines, where available, or else engage in arms length negotiations.
Changes in the value of forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in results in the same period as changes in the values Trademarks owned by the parent companies and used by of the assets and liabilities they are intended to hedge.
Interest operating companies are, where appropriate, licensed in return payments and receipts arising from interest rate derivatives such for royalties or a fee.
as swaps and forward rate agreements are matched to those arising from underlying debt and investment positions.
General services provided by central advisory departments, business groups, divisions and research laboratories are charged Payments made or received in respect of the early termination to operating companies on the basis of fees.
of derivative financial instruments are spread over the original life of the instrument so long as the underlying exposure Leases continues to exist.
Lease payments are principally in respect of operating leases, which are charged to the profit and loss account on a straightResearch, development and market support costs line basis over the lease term, or over the period between rent Expenditure on research and development and on market support reviews where these exist.
Assets held under finance leases are costs such as advertising is charged against the profit of the year initially capitalised at their fair value and depreciated over the in which it is incurred.
shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
The net present value of the corresponding finance lease liability is included within Group turnover and Turnover creditors.
The finance element is charged to interest as it accrues.
Group turnover comprises sales of goods and services after deduction of discounts and sales taxes.
It includes sales to joint Share-based payments ventures and associated companies but does not include sales by Unilever reects the economic cost of awarding shares and share joint ventures and associated companies or sales between group options to employees by recording a charge in the profit and loss companies.
Turnover includes the Group share of the turnover of account equivalent to the fair value of the benefit awarded.
The joint ventures, net of the Group share of any sales to the joint fair value is determined with reference to option pricing models, ventures already included in the Group gures, but does not principally adjusted Black-Scholes models or the multinomial include Unilevers share of the turnover of associates.
The charge is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the award.
Share-based Discounts given by Unilever include rebates, price reductions and payments are described in more detail in note 30 on pages incentives given to customers in cash or company products.
At 138 to 147. each balance sheet date any such expenditure incurred but not yet invoiced is estimated and accrued.
Shares held by employee share trusts The assets and liabilities of certain PLC trusts, NV and group Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the companies which purchase and hold NV and PLC shares to satisfy underlying products and services have been substantially options granted are included in the Group accounts.
The book transferred to the customer.
value of shares held is deducted from other reserves, and trust borrowings are included in the Groups borrowings.
The costs of Exceptional items the trusts are included in the results of the Group.
These shares Exceptional items are those items within ordinary activities which, are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
because of their size or nature, are disclosed to give a proper understanding of the underlying result for the period.
These include restructuring charges in connection with reorganising businesses comprising impairment of xed assets, costs of severance, and other costs directly attributable to the restructuring, and profits and losses on disposal of businesses.
United Kingdom FRS 3 would require profits and losses on disposal of most businesses to be excluded from operating profit.
However, because business disposals in the period and the restructuring costs are part of a series of linked initiatives under the Path to Growth strategy, separate presentation would not give a true and fair view and therefore all exceptional items arising from these initiatives have been included on a single line in operating profit.
Costs associated with restructuring, such as training, are recognised as they arise and are not treated as exceptional.
98 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
