C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 3:27 AM Page 67 Corporate governance continued Kingdom.
We assume in our combined earnings per share The Audit Committee approved a policy in 2003 regarding the calculation that both companies will be able to pay their dividends pre-approval of the above three non-audit categories.
This lists out of their part of our profits.
This has always been the case in in detail the particular services which  the past, but if we did have to make a payment from one to the is and is not permitted to provide.
In the case of the types of other it could result in additional taxes, and reduce our combined work which  is allowed to perform, earnings per share.
the policy provides that they are only appointed to an assignment if proper consideration has been given to other potential service Auditors providers, there must be bona fide advantages in using , and, in addition, if the fee is over Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the 100 000, the engagement must be specically approved in shareholders and in addition to our ongoing process of advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
monitoring the auditors performance, we undertake a formal review every three years.
The most recent review was completed Potential engagements for any services not already covered by in November 2002 and resulted in the reappointment of this policy must be referred to the Chairman of the Audit .
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee for specic pre-approval to be ratied at the next Committee, the Directors will be proposing the reappointment meeting of the Audit Committee before  of  at the Annual General Meetings in can be appointed.
The Boards concluded that the procedures were effective for Both the Executive Committee and the auditors have for 2004 in preserving the objectivity and independence of many years had safeguards to avoid the possibility that the .
auditors objectivity and independence could be compromised.
In overview, our procedures in respect of services provided by The policy is regularly reviewed and updated in the light of  are: internal developments, external developments and best practice.
During 2004, the Audit Committee issued clarification of the Statutory audit Procedures in respect of statutory audit policy in the context of the implementation of International services are detailed above.
This category includes fees for the Financial Reporting Standards and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act statutory audit of Unilevers financial statements and those of of 2002. its subsidiaries.
Other audit services This is audit and similar work that The external auditors report to the Directors and the Audit regulations or agreements with third parties require the Committee on the actions they take to comply with the auditors to undertake.
These services include procedures professional and regulatory requirements and best practice undertaken by our external auditors in connection with designed to ensure their independence from Unilever, including, borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and various other for example, the periodic rotation of key team members.
partner in charge of the audit changed in 2001.
Audit-related services This is work that, in their position as the auditors, they are best placed to undertake.
It includes See note 2 on page 108 for the actual fees payable to internal control reviews, other reports and work in respect of .
Tax services In cases where they are best suited, we use the auditors.
All other significant tax consulting work is put to tender.
General consulting and other services Since early 2002, our policy has been that our external auditors may not tender for any new general consulting work.
We use our auditors to perform a limited number of other services, including risk management advisory work and training, where these are compatible with their work and subject to the appropriate level of pre-approval.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 67
