C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 3 General information continued In our reporting, Turnover comprises Group turnover plus the Cautionary statement Group share of turnover of joint ventures, net of the Group share This document may contain forward-looking statements, including of any sales to the joint ventures already included in the Group forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United gures, but does not include our share of the turnover of States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Operating profit comprises Group operating profit such as expects, anticipates, intends or the negative of these plus our share of operating profit of joint ventures.
This measure terms and other similar expressions of future performance or does not include our share of the operating profit of associates.
results and their negatives are intended to identify such forwardReferences to turnover growth include the effects of acquisitions looking statements.
These forward-looking statements are based and disposals.
Underlying sales growth reects the change in upon current expectations and assumptions regarding anticipated revenue at constant rates of exchange excluding the effects of developments and other factors affecting the Group.
They are not acquisitions and disposals.
We believe this measure provides historical facts, nor are they guarantees of future performance.
valuable additional information on the underlying performance Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and of the business.
uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by Leading brand growth is a subset of underlying sales growth these forward-looking statements, including, among others, and measures the change in revenue arising from our leading competitive pricing and activities, consumption levels, costs, the brands.
Leading brand growth has been a key metric used to ability to maintain and manage key customer relationships and measure the progress of the Path to Growth programme.
supply chain sources, currency values, interest rates, the ability to integrate acquisitions and complete planned divestitures, physical Return on invested capital is profit after tax but excluding risks, environmental risks, the ability to manage regulatory, tax net interest on net debt and amortisation or impairment of and legal matters and resolve pending matters within current goodwill and intangible assets both net of tax, divided by average estimates, legislative, scal and regulatory developments, political, invested capital for the year.
Invested capital is the sum of economic and social conditions in the geographic markets where tangible xed assets and xed investments, working capital, the Group operates and new or changed priorities of the Boards.
goodwill and intangible assets at gross book value and cumulative Further details of potential risks and uncertainties affecting the goodwill written off directly to reserves under an earlier Group are described in the Groups lings with the London Stock accounting policy.
Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and the US Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Annual Report and Accounts Ungeared free cash ow is dened as cash ow from group on Form 20-F.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of operating activities, less capital expenditure and financial the date of this document.
Except as required by any applicable investment and less a tax charge adjusted to reect an law or regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or ungeared position.
It is not a measure of liquidity.
undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reect any Ungeared free cash ow generation and return on invested change in the Groups expectations with regard thereto or any capital are key measures of value creation, used to monitor change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such progress towards our long-term strategic objectives.
Tables reconciling certain of these measures to the statutory measures included in the Financial Statements are shown on pages 4 to 6 and throughout the section entitled Operating review on pages 24 to 49. is used in this report to denote amounts in euros.
and p are used in this report to denote amounts in pounds sterling and pence respectively.
is used in this report to denote amounts in Dutch guilders.
$ is used in this report to denote amounts in United States dollars, except where specically stated otherwise.
The brand names shown in italics in this report are trademarks owned by or licensed to companies within the Unilever Group.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 03
