C11742 Unlvr AR eng 090-098. qxd 9 3 05 3:17 AM Page 94 Auditors report United Kingdom Audit report of the independent auditors to the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing shareholders of Unilever PLC Rules of the United Kingdoms Financial Services Authority and we We have audited the accounts of the Unilever Group and Unilever report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the PLC which have been prepared under the historical cost Directors statements on internal control cover all risks and convention, set out on pages 96 to 148, 154 to 168 and 172 to controls or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups 173.
We have also audited the auditable part of the Directors corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Remuneration Report as set out on page 89. procedures.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Basis of audit opinion As described on page 92, the Directors are responsible We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
This includes issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes responsibility for preparing the accounts in accordance with an examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the applicable United Kingdom law and United Kingdom accounting amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the auditable part of standards.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the the Directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment Directors Remuneration Report.
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of whether the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the auditable part accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the information and explanations which we considered necessary in shareholders of Unilever PLC, as a body in accordance with order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Section 235 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and for assurance that the accounts and the auditable part of the no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or Directors Remuneration Report are free from material assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with Opinion the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you In our opinion, the accounts give a true and fair view of the state whether the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration of affairs of the Unilever Group and Unilever PLC at 31 December Report is properly prepared in accordance with the applicable 2004 and of the profit and cash ows of the Group for the year requirements in the United Kingdom.
We would also report to then ended.
In our opinion the accounts of the Unilever Group you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with and Unilever PLC have been properly prepared in accordance with the accounts, if proper accounting records have not been kept, the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
In our opinion, the if we have not received all the information and explanations auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report has been we require for our audit, or if information specified by United properly prepared in accordance with the applicable requirements Kingdom law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions in the United Kingdom.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report  LLP and Accounts and consider the implications for our audit report if Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material London, United Kingdom inconsistencies with the accounts.
1 March 2005 We review whether the corporate governance statement on page 64 reects the Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the 94 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
