C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 7:26 AM Page 22 Financial review continued Off-balance sheet arrangements Unilever concentrates cash in the parent and finance companies We have conducted a review of our contractual arrangements in order to ensure maximum exibility in meeting changing with potential variable interest entities VIEs as dened under US business needs.
Operating subsidiaries are nanced through the generally accepted accounting principle FIN 46R.
This review mix of retained earnings, third-party borrowings and loans from confirmed that there are no significant VIE relationships which are parent and group nancing companies that is most appropriate to not already appropriately reected in the accounts.
Further details the particular country and business concerned.
Unilever maintains are given on page 159. access to global debt markets through an infrastructure of shortterm debt programmes principally US domestic and euro Cash ow commercial paper programmes and long-term debt programmes Cash ow from operating activities increased by 73 million to principally a US Shelf registration and euromarket Debt Issuance 6 853 million.
Lower group operating profit BEIA and increased Programme.
Debt in the international markets is, in general, contributions to pension funds were offset by reduced working issued in the name of NV, PLC or Unilever Capital Corporation.
NV and PLC will normally guarantee such debt where they are not the issuer.
Returns on investment and servicing of finance cash outows were 373 million lower as a result of reduced interest cost and Treasury higher dividends paid to minority shareholders in the comparative Unilever Treasurys mission is to ensure that Unilever maintains the period.
The drivers of lower interest costs were reduced debt financial exibility necessary to execute its business strategies and levels and lower interest rates.
Unilever Treasurys role is to ensure that appropriate nancing is always available for all value-creating Net capital expenditure and financial investment was at a similar investments.
Additionally, Treasury delivers financial services to level to the prior year, which included a 234 million cash inow allow operating companies to manage their financial transactions from the sale of a xed rate investment.
Net cash inows from and exposures in an efficient, timely and low-cost manner.
acquisition and disposals were 306 million lower than in 2003.
Unilever Treasury operates as a service centre and is governed by Ungeared free cash ow policies and plans agreed by the Executive Committee.
In addition Our ungeared free cash ow delivery in 2004 was strong at to policies, guidelines and exposure limits, a system of authorities 4 856 million.
However, this reects a low tax rate and the and extensive independent reporting covers all major areas of effects of various non-cash provisions, such as Slim Fast and activity.
Reviews are undertaken other exceptional charges.
A more representative base would be by the corporate internal audit function.
A denition of this measure and its reconciliation to cash ow from group operating activities can be found on The key financial instruments used by Unilever are shortand page 6.
The strong cash ow together with the weaker US dollar long-term borrowings, cash and other xed and current enabled net debt to be reduced to 9.7 billion at current investments and certain straightforward derivative instruments, exchange rates.
This has enabled an increased dividend payout principally comprising interest rate swaps and foreign exchange for 2004 and the announcement of a share buy-back programme contracts.
The accounting for derivative instruments is discussed for 2005. in Accounting information and policies on page 98.
The use of leveraged instruments is not permitted.
Finance and liquidity Unilever aims to be in the top third of a reference group for Total Other relevant disclosures are given in notes 15 and 16 on pages Shareholder Return of 21 international consumer goods 118 to 121. companies, as explained below.
The Groups financial strategy supports this objective and provides the financial exibility to Unilever Treasury manages a variety of market risks, including the meet its strategic and day-to-day needs.
The key elements of the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and financial strategy are: credit spreads.
Further details of the management of these risks are given on page 51.
Appropriate access to equity and debt capital: sufficient exibility for tactical acquisitions: A1 P1 short-term credit rating: sufficient resilience against economic turmoil: and Optimal weighted average cost of capital, given the constraints above.
An adjusted EBITDA net interest cover greater than 8 times is consistent with this strategy.
An interest cover below this level is acceptable for a period following major acquisitions.
The denition and further details on the net interest cover ratios are given on page 6, 149 and 151.
22 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
