C11742 Unlvr AR eng 052-070. qxd 9 3 05 2:25 AM Page 70 Corporate governance Board changes Other changes The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on pages As already mentioned, the changes to our business organisation 68 and 69.
All the Executive Directors held ofce throughout the in 2005 described on pages 8 and 53 will lead to an Executive year, with the exception of Kees van der Graaf, who was elected team that supports Patrick Cescau as Group Chief Executive.
The as a Director at the 2004 Annual General Meetings AGMs.
roles of Kees van der Graaf, Ralph Kugler and Rudy Markham as members of that team will be as stated above.
The other The changes to our Board structure described on pages 8 and 53 members of the Executive team, and their responsibilities, will be result in a smaller Board.
Antony Burgmans, Patrick Cescau, Kees Vindi Banga President Foods, Harish Manwani President van der Graaf and Rudy Markham will be offering themselves for Asia AMET, John Rice President The Americas, and Sandy Ogg re-election at the 2005 AGMs.
Clive Butler, Keki Dadiseth and Human Resources.
Vindi Banga, Harish Manwani and John Rice Andr van Heemstra will retire from the Boards.
Their colleagues are currently Business Presidents and their details are given on wish to thank them for their contributions to Unilever over the page 69.
Sandy Ogg is aged 51, joined Unilever in 2003 from past 34, 31 and 34 years respectively.
Motorola and is currently Senior Vice-President Human Resources for the Foods Division.
Ralph Kugler is nominated for election as an Executive Director of NV and PLC at the 2005 AGMs.
He is currently Business President Home and Personal Care Europe and his biography is set out in the Notices of the AGMs.
Antony Burgmans will take up the role of Non-Executive Chairman of NV and PLC and Patrick Cescau will become Group Chief Executive.
Rudy Markham will be Chief Financial officer and Kees van der Graaf and Ralph Kugler will be President Europe and Category President Home and Personal Care respectively.
Leon Brittan, Lynda Chalker, Bertrand Collomb, Wim Dik, Oscar Fanjul, Hilmar Kopper, David Simon and Jeroen van der Veer are nominated for re-election as Non-Executive Directors of NV and PLC at the 2005 AGMs.
All were elected as Non-Executive Directors on 12 May 2004, having previously been Advisory Directors, following the approval of the corporate governance changes proposed at the 2004 AGMs.
Their biographies are set out on pages 68 and 69.
Claudio Gonzalez, due to the pressure of his other commitments, retires as a Non-Executive Director at the 2005 AGMs and his colleagues thank him for his advice over the past seven years.
We plan to make Bertrand Collomb, currently our Senior Independent Director, Vice-Chairman of NV and PLC.
Professor Wim Dik will join the Audit Committee.
During 2004 Niall FitzGerald retired as Chairman of PLC and ViceChairman of NV, Charles Strauss retired as a Director and Senator George Mitchell retired as an Advisory Director.
Patrick Cescau became Chairman of PLC and Vice-Chairman of NV on 1 October 2004 and Kees van der Graaf succeeded Patrick Cescau as Foods Director.
70 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
