C11742 Unlvr AR eng 090-098. qxd 9 3 05 1:25 AM Page 92 Statement of Directors responsibilities Annual accounts for its operations worldwide, and through an Operational The Directors are required by Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in Controls Assessment process, which requires the senior the Netherlands and the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 management in each business unit to assess the effectiveness of to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and financial controls annually and of all other operational controls fair view of the state of affairs of the Unilever Group, NV and PLC over a three-year cycle.
as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for that year.
The Boards have overall responsibility for establishing key procedures designed to achieve systems of internal control and The Directors consider that in preparing the accounts, the Group, disclosure control and for reviewing and evaluating their NV and PLC have used the most appropriate accounting policies, effectiveness.
The day-to-day responsibility for implementation consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent of these procedures and ongoing monitoring of risk and judgements and estimates, and that all United Kingdom the effectiveness of controls rests with the Groups senior accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have management at individual operating company and Business been followed.
Business Groups, each of which has its own Risk Committee, review, on an ongoing basis, the risks faced by their The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC group and the related internal control arrangements and provide keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy written reports to the Corporate Risk Committee, the composition their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure and function of which are set out on page 57. that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are Unilevers corporate internal audit function plays a key role in reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group providing an objective view and continuous reassurance of the and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
effectiveness of the risk management and related control systems throughout Unilever to both operating management and the This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Boards.
The Group has an independent Audit Committee, Auditors report, is made with a view to distinguishing for entirely comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of This Committee meets regularly with the Chief Auditor and the auditors in relation to the accounts.
A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is placed Unilever has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual on our website at www.
The maintenance and budget approved by the Boards, which is regularly reviewed and integrity of the website is the responsibility of the Directors, and updated.
Performance is monitored against budget and the the work carried out by the auditors does not involve previous year through monthly and quarterly reporting routines.
Accordingly, the auditors accept The Group reports to shareholders quarterly.
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially placed on the Unilevers system of risk management has been in place website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands throughout 2004 and up to the date of this report, and complies governing the preparation and dissemination of financial with the recommendations of Internal Control Guidance for statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors on the Combined Code, published by the Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Going concern in England & Wales in September 1999.
The Boards have carried The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis out an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of risk in preparing the accounts.
This is because the Directors, management and internal control during 2004 in accordance with after making enquiries and following a review of the Groups this guidance, and have ensured that the necessary actions have budget for 2005 and 2006, including cash ows and borrowing been or are being taken to address any weaknesses or facilities, consider that the Group has adequate resources to deficiencies arising out of that review.
continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
At the end of 2006, Unilever will be required by Section 404 of Internal and disclosure controls and procedures the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of Unilever has a well-established control framework, which internal control over financial reporting.
The evaluation work is well documented and regularly reviewed by the Boards.
necessary to meet this specic requirement is under way.
This incorporates risk management, internal control procedures and disclosure controls and procedures which are designed to Based on an evaluation by the Boards, each Chairman and the provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets are Financial Director concluded that the design and operation of the safeguarded, the risks facing the business are being addressed Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31 December and all information required to be disclosed is reported to the 2004 were reasonably effective and that subsequently there have Groups senior management, including where appropriate the been no significant changes in the Groups internal controls Chairmen and Financial Director, within the required timeframe.
or in other factors that could signicantly affect those controls.
Our procedures cover financial, operational, social and It is Unilevers policy to bring acquired companies within the environmental risks and regulatory matters.
The Boards of NV Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and, and PLC have also established a clear organisational structure, in any event, by the end of the first full year of operation.
including delegation of appropriate authorities.
The Groups control framework is supported through a Code of Business Principles, which sets standards of professionalism and integrity 92 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
