C11742 Unlvr AR eng 179-180. qxd 8 3 05 11:11 PM Page 179 Taxation for US residents holding shares in NV The following notes are provided for guidance.
US residents may be governed by the Tax Regulation for the Kingdom of the should consult their local tax advisers, particularly in connection Netherlands or by the tax convention, if any, between the with potential liability to pay US taxes on disposal, lifetime gift or Netherlands and your country of residence.
United States taxation on dividends Netherlands taxation on dividends If you are a United States shareholder, the dividend including the Dividends of companies in the Netherlands are in principle subject withheld amount up to the amount of our earnings and profits to dividend withholding tax of 25%.
Where a shareholder is for United States Federal income tax purposes will be ordinary entitled to the benets of the current Income Tax Convention dividend income.
Dividends received by an individual during the Convention concluded on 18 December 1992 between the taxable years before 2009 will be taxed at a maximum rate of United States and the Netherlands, when dividends are paid by 15%, provided the individual has held the shares for more than NV to: 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date, that NV is a qualied foreign corporation and a United States resident: that certain other conditions are satisfied.
NV is a qualied foreign a corporation organised under the laws of the United States corporation for this purpose.
Dividends received by an individual or any territory of it having no permanent establishment in the for taxable years after 2008 will be subject to tax at ordinary Netherlands of which such shares form a part of the business income rates.
The dividends are not eligible for the dividends property: or received deduction allowed to corporations.
any other legal person subject to United States Federal income tax with respect to its worldwide income, having no permanent For US foreign tax credit purposes, the dividend is foreign source establishment in the Netherlands of which such shares form a income, and the Netherlands withholding tax is a foreign income part of the business property: tax that is eligible for credit against the shareholders United States income taxes.
However, the rules governing the US foreign these dividends qualify for a reduction of Netherlands withholding tax credit are complex, and additional limitations on the credit tax on dividends from 25% to 15% to 5% if the beneficial apply to individuals receiving dividends eligible for the 15% owner is a company which directly holds at least 10% of the maximum tax rate on dividends described above.
voting power of NV shares and to 0% if the beneficial owner is a qualied Exempt Organisation as dened in Article 36 of the Any portion of the dividend that exceeds our United States Convention.
earnings and profits is subject to different rules.
This portion is a tax free return of capital to the extent of your basis in our shares, Where a United States resident or corporation has a permanent and thereafter is treated as a gain on a disposition of the shares.
establishment in the Netherlands, which has shares in NV forming part of its business property, dividends it receives on those shares Under a provision of the Netherlands Dividend Tax Act, NV are included in that establishments profit.
They are subject to is entitled to a credit up to a maximum of 3% of the gross the Netherlands income tax or corporation tax, as appropriate, dividend from which dividend tax is withheld against the amount and the Netherlands tax on dividends will generally be applied of dividend tax withheld before remittance to the Netherlands tax at the full rate of 25%.
This tax will be treated as foreign income authorities.
For dividends paid on or after 1 January 1995, the tax eligible for credit against the shareholders United States United States tax authority may take the position that the income taxes.
Netherlands withholding tax eligible for credit should be limited accordingly.
Under the Convention, qualifying United States organisations that are generally exempt from United States taxes and that are Netherlands taxation on capital gains constituted and operated exclusively to administer or provide Under the Convention, if you are a United States resident or pension, retirement or other employee benets may be exempt corporation and you have capital gains on the sale of shares of a at source from withholding tax on dividends received from a Netherlands company, these are generally not subject to taxation Netherlands corporation.
An agreement published by the US by the Netherlands.
An exception to this rule generally applies if Internal Revenue Service on 20 April 2000 in release IR-INT-2000- you have a permanent establishment in the Netherlands and the 9 between the United States and the Netherlands tax authorities capital gain is derived from the sale of shares which form part of describes the eligibility of these US organisations for benets that permanent establishments business property.
Netherlands succession duty and gift taxes A United States trust, company or organisation that is operated Under the Estate and Inheritance Tax Convention between the exclusively for religious, charitable, scientific, educational or public United States and the Netherlands of 15 July 1969, United States purposes, is now subject to an initial 25% withholding tax rate.
individual residents who are not Dutch citizens who have shares Such an exempt organisation is entitled to reclaim from the will generally not be subject to succession duty in the Netherlands Netherlands Tax Authorities a refund of the Netherlands dividend on the individuals death, unless the shares are part of the tax, if and to the extent that it is exempt from United States business property of a permanent establishment situated in Federal Income Tax and it would be exempt from tax in the the Netherlands.
Netherlands if it were organised and carried on all its activities there.
A gift of shares of a Netherlands company by a person who is not a resident or a deemed resident of the Netherlands is generally If you are an NV shareholder resident in any country other than not subject to Netherlands gift tax.
A non-resident Netherlands the United States or the Netherlands, any exemption from, or citizen, however, is still treated as a resident of the Netherlands reduction or refund of, the Netherlands dividend withholding tax for gift tax purposes for ten years and any other non-resident person for one year after leaving the Netherlands.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 179
