C11742 Unlvr AR eng 181-188. qxd 8 3 05 11:09 PM Page 187 Website Share registration Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website Netherlands www.
com, which has a wealth of information N. V. Algemeen Nederlands Trustkantoor ANT about Unilever.
PO Box 11063 1001 GB Amsterdam There is a section designed specically for investors at www.
It includes Telephone 31 0 20 522 2555 detailed coverage of the Unilever share price, our quarterly and Telefax 31 0 20 522 2500 annual results, performance charts, financial news and investor e-mail registers@ant-trust.
nl relations speeches and presentations.
It also includes conference and investor analyst presentations.
UK You can also view this years and prior years Annual Review and Lloyds TSB Registrars Annual Report and Accounts documents at The Causeway www.
com ourcompany investorcentre nancial reports.
Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA PLC shareholders can elect not to receive paper copies of the Annual Review, the Annual Report and Accounts and other Telephone 44 0 870 600 3977 shareholder documents by registering at Telefax 44 0 870 600 3980 www.
com shareholderservices if they prefer to view Website www.
com shareholderservices these on our website.
USA JPMorgan Service Center PO Box 43013 Providence RI 02940-3013 Toll free phone inside US 888 502 6356 Toll phone outside US 1 0 781 575 4328 Website www.
com Publications Copies of the following publications can be accessed directly or ordered through www.
Unilever Annual Review 2004 Including Summary Financial Statement.
Available in English or Dutch, with financial information in euros, sterling and US dollars.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Available in English or Dutch, with gures in euros.
It forms the basis for the Form 20-F that is led with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Quarterly Results Announcements Available in English or Dutch, with gures in euros: supplements in English, with sterling or US dollar gures, are available.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 187 Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing Photography by Igor Emmerich Typeset by Paufey, London Printed by St Ives Westerham Press under ISO 14001 environmental accreditation.
All paper used in the production of this report is recyclable and bio degradable and contains 50% recovered bre.
The paper was manufactured under ISO 9002 and ISO 14001 environmental accreditation.
Unilever N. V. Weena 455, PO Box 760 3000 DK Rotterdam The Netherlands T 31 0 10 217 4000 F 31 0 10 217 4798 Unilever PLC PO Box 68, Unilever House Blackfriars, London EC4P 4BQ United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7822 5252 F 44 0 20 7822 5951 Unilever PLC registered office Unilever PLC Port Sunlight Wirral Merseyside CH62 4ZD United Kingdom www.
com 2004 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement Adding vitality to life Our corporate purpose Unilevers mission is to add Vitality to life.
We meet everyday needs for nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands that help people feel good, look good and get more out of life.
Our deep roots in local cultures and markets around the world give us our strong relationship with consumers and are the foundation for our future growth.
We will bring our wealth of knowledge and international expertise to the service of local consumers a truly multi-local multinational.
Our long-term success requires a total commitment to exceptional standards of performance and productivity, to working together effectively, and to a willingness to embrace new ideas and learn continuously.
To succeed also requires, we believe, the highest standards of corporate behaviour towards everyone we work with, the communities we touch, and the environment on which we have an impact.
This is our road to sustainable, profitable growth, creating long-term value for our shareholders, our people, and our business partners.
Contents 01 Highlights of the year 24 Board of Directors Profiles of our Directors 02 Unilevers new identity Explaining the new logo 26 Corporate governance How we govern ourselves 04 Unilever at a glance Some of Unilevers leading brands 29 Summary financial statement A summary of information from the financial statements, 06 Chairmens foreword Directors Report and Remuneration Report in Unilevers The Chairmens report on organisational change Annual Report and Accounts 2004 and the challenges ahead 37 Shareholder information 08 Performance review Some useful details about your investment A review of the performance of the business during 2004 and Path to Growth 18 People How Unilever develops and motivates its people 20 Corporate responsibility How we operate as a responsible business 22 Environment How we contribute to sustainable development Highlights of the year a Underlying sales grew by 0.4% a b Operating margin BEIA of 15.2% a b Earnings per share BEIA grew by 5.0% c Total dividend per share 1.89 NV, 19.15p PLC c d Total dividend per share $2.41 NV New York, $1.42 PLC ADR a At constant 2003 exchange rates.
b BEIA: before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets.
c The final dividends contained within these figures are subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meetings in May 2005. d Shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange in US dollars.
The final dollar dividend amounts included in the figures set out above are indicative only.
The actual amounts will be converted at the rates of exchange on the declaration dates in May 2005.
The two parent companies, Unilever N. V. NV and Unilever Comments on changes to turnover include acquisition Because these forward-looking statements involve risks and PLC PLC, together with their group companies, operate as and disposal effects, whereas underlying sales or sales uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause nearly as is practicable as a single entity the Unilever Group, growth exclude acquisition and disposal effects.
actual results to differ materially from those expressed or also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
This Annual Review implied by these forward-looking statements, including, therefore deals with the operations and the results of the For NV share capital, the euro amounts shown in this among others, competitive pricing and activities, consumption Unilever Group as a whole.
document are representations in euros on the basis of levels, costs, the ability to maintain and manage key customer Article 67c Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, rounded to relationships and supply chain sources, currency values, The brand names shown in italics in this Annual Review are two decimal places, of underlying amounts of share capital interest rates, the ability to integrate acquisitions and trademarks owned by or licensed to companies within the in Dutch guilders, which have not been converted into complete planned divestitures, physical risks, environmental Unilever Group.
euros in NVs Articles of Association.
Until such conversion risks, the ability to manage regulatory, tax and legal matters formally takes place by amendment of the Articles of and resolve pending matters within current estimates, Unilever has adopted the euro as its principal reporting Association the entitlements to dividends and voting rights legislative, fiscal and regulatory developments, political, currency.
The figures in this Annual Review are expressed in are based on the underlying Dutch guilder amounts.
economic and social conditions in the geographic markets euros with translations, for convenience purposes, into where the Group operates and new or changed priorities of sterling and US dollars.
Changes in exchange rates can cause The exchange rates used in the preparation of this Annual the Boards.
Further details of potential risks and uncertainties different trends in results reported in each of these currencies.
Review are given on page 29. affecting the Group are described in the Groups filings with the London Stock Exchange, Euronext Amsterdam and To eliminate this effect, the commentary throughout the Cautionary statement the US Securities and Exchange Commission, including Annual Review is based, unless otherwise stated, on This document may contain forward-looking statements, the Annual Report and Accounts on Form 20-F.
These constant exchange rates that is, the same rates as the including forward-looking statements within the meaning of forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of preceding year.
For each two-year period, the year-on-year the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of this document.
Except as required by any applicable law or comparisons in euros are the same as those which would 1995.
Words such as expects, anticipates, intends or the regulation, the Group expressly disclaims any obligation or arise if the results were shown in sterling or US dollars at negative of these terms and other similar expressions of future undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to constant exchange rates.
performance or results and their negatives are intended to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect identify such forward-looking statements.
These forwardany change in the Groups expectations with regard thereto Wherever used in this Annual Review, the abbreviation BEIA looking statements are based upon current expectations and or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on refers to profit measures before exceptional items and assumptions regarding anticipated developments and other which any such statement is based.
amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets.
Unless factors affecting the Group.
They are not historical facts, nor otherwise stated, the commentary is also on a BEIA basis.
are they guarantees of future performance.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 01 Unilever and Vitality Sun: our primary natural resource.
All life Vitality links all our brands uniting them in begins with the sun the ultimate the role they play for the people who use them.
It evokes Unilevers Vitality explains why our brands belong to Unilever.
origins in Port Sunlight and can represent a number of our brands.
Flora, Our new identity is an expression of vitality and Slim Fast and Omo all use radiance to our new mission explains vitality as a consequence communicate their benefits.
of what we do: the end benefit of Unilever Vitality being that our brands help people look good, feel DNA: the double helix, the genetic good and get more out of life.
blueprint of life and a symbol of bio-science.
It is the key to a healthy life.
Its a simple statement, but a powerful one.
The sun is the biggest ingredient of life, It encompasses our brands, our culture and our and DNA the smallest.
commitments to society and the environment.
Vitality is also about our future direction, allowing Bee: represents creation, pollination, us to focus on new consumer opportunities to hard work and bio-diversity.
Bees develop our brands and grow our business.
symbolise both environmental challenges and opportunities.
Over the coming months our companies around the world will be taking the Unilever name and Hand: a symbol of sensitivity, care and embracing our new mission.
It represents both skin and touch.
be appearing on the packaging of our brands, so that people will know who we are, what we Flower: represents fragrance.
When seen do and what we stand for.
with the hand, it represents moisturisers or cream.
Hair: a symbol of beauty and looking good.
Placed next to the flower it evokes cleanliness and fragrance: placed near the hand it suggests softness.
It produces palm oil as well as many fruits coconuts and dates and also symbolises paradise.
Sauces or spreads: represents mixing or stirring.
It suggests blending in flavours and adding taste.
02 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Our new identity is an expression of vitality which is at the heart of everything we do our brands, our people and our values For the first time our name will be on the packaging of our brands and also in the name of each of our subsidiary companies world-wide so that people know who we are.
Each icon within our logo represents an aspect of our business and shows our commitment to adding vitality to life in all that we do.
Spoon: a symbol of nutrition, tasting Tea: a plant or an extract of a plant, and cooking.
Also a symbol of growing and farming.
Bowl: a bowl of delicious-smelling food.
It can also represent a ready meal, hot drink or soup.
Particles: a reference to science, bubbles and fizz.
Spice and flavours: represents chilli or fresh ingredients.
Frozen: the plant is a symbol of freshness, the snowflake represents freezing.
Fish: represents food, sea or fresh water.
Wave: symbolises cleanliness, freshness and vigour either as personal washing or as a laundry icon with the clothes icon.
Sparkle: clean, healthy and sparkling with energy.
Liquid: a reference to clean water and purity.
It suggests a relief from daily chores, and getting Container: symbolises packaging a pot more out of life.
of cream associated with personal care.
Recycle: part of our commitment to sustainability.
Clothes: represent fresh laundry and looking good.
Lips: represent beauty, looking good and taste.
Heart: a symbol of love, care and health.
Ice cream: a treat, pleasure and enjoyment.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 03 Unilever at a glance One of our priorities has been to redefine our brand portfolio and focus investment on building global brands, together with regional and local jewels.
Our future growth depends on maintaining the competitiveness of our brands and delivering innovations that meet consumers needs.
Chairmens foreword In 2005 we expect the tough trading conditions experienced over the past 12 months to continue.
However, the changes we have made to our structure and the measures we have taken to increase competitiveness will allow us to retain flexibility to build the long-term health of our business in changing circumstances.
Introduction Bertrand Collomb will become Non-Executive Vice-Chairman In February 2005, when we first reported on our performance in of both parent companies in addition to his role as the Senior 2004, we also announced far-reaching changes to our organisation Independent Director.
and a change of roles for ourselves.
We believe it is important to explain why these changes were necessary and why we are confident Patrick becomes the new Group Chief Executive and assumes that, once fully implemented, they will put your business in the full operational responsibility for the business, accountable for all best possible shape to succeed in the competitive battles ahead.
aspects of the companys operations and performance.
He will lead a small Executive team comprising three Regional Presidents, two At the end of our five-year Path to Growth period we are not Category Presidents and functional leaders for Finance and HR.
Despite many achievements in simplifying are dismantling the current divisional and business-group structures the brand portfolio, in increasing margins and capital efficiency, in to simplify and speed up decision-making and substantially reduce restoring financial flexibility and in many other areas, we do not the size of the top management team.
New Regional Presidents end this period of Unilevers history with the level of growth we for Europe, The Americas and Asia Africa, Middle East and Turkey wanted.
This is not because our portfolio is incapable of growth.
AMET will be profit-responsible and charged with implementing Our portfolio is strong, and is capable of generating the growth we proven brand mixes in their region across Foods and Home and need, but we have not been fast enough in reacting to toughening Personal Care HPC.
There will be a greatly enhanced focus on our market conditions and increased competitive challenges.
The Category Presidents will assume responsibility for the entire brand development process including innovation, R & D, We are now facing up to these challenges and also putting in place brand positioning and communication and category strategies.
Priorities for 2005 What will change We expect a tough environment in 2005.
Market growth will Starting last September we increased the level of investment behind continue to be constrained by a difficult retail environment in the our brands, through more aggressive pricing and higher advertising developed world and no let-up in the level of competitiveness we expenditure.
We intend to sustain this policy and make our portfolio face in developing and emerging markets.
work harder in a number of ways.
We will continue to build our big brands through innovation and increased marketplace investment.
Our overriding objective is to return the business to healthy growth.
At the same time we will better use the whole of our brand portfolio to leverage our category strength and drive market share.
In many ways we are a stronger business than we were five years We recognise that we must also be smarter and more disciplined ago and we have valuable assets on which we can build excellent in execution faster roll-out of innovations and more focus on market positions in our chosen categories and in the faster growing building productive relationships with our customers.
We will fund regions of the world: a focused brand portfolio with 12 brands much of this through increased productivity.
achieving sales in excess of 1 billion a year and nearly two-thirds of our turnover coming from brands in excess of 0.5 billion.
Our New organisation Vitality mission unites us all.
It is a compelling vision that is right for We will reshape the organisation to support the drive for increased our consumers, right for our brands and right for our business.
We will fide-layer the organisation between the Boards and the operating units, and clearly separate responsibility One Unilever for brand development and category management on the one hand We expect to fund future growth largely through cost savings.
and country and customer development on the other.
In all cases Some of these will come from the global One Unilever programme, there will be clear single-point accountability.
Its goal is to eradicate duplication, leverage Unilevers scale and help people focus on our consumers, For 75 years the Joint Chairmen and Chief Executive model has customers and the marketplace.
The latest changes are completely served us well.
However, to further improve governance and congruent with and build upon the One Unilever principles.
organisational effectiveness, we have now decided that your business will be better served by a single Non-Executive Chairman Board changes responsible for running the Boards and a single Chief Executive At the Annual General Meetings in May four of our Directors will Officer responsible for running the business.
Antony will become be retiring.
Clive Butler, Keki Dadiseth and Andr van Heemstra Non-Executive Chairman for both Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC at have all had long and distinguished careers as Unilever executives.
the Annual General Meetings in May, and he will lead a study of Clive has been a Director since 1992 and most recently served as Unilevers corporate structure.
Although our structure has met our Corporate Development Director.
Keki joined the Boards in 2000 needs until now, we believe it is time for a thorough review.
We and has been a Divisional Director for the HPC business since 2001. expect Antony to be succeeded by an independent Non-Executive Andr has been Personnel Director since joining the Boards in 2000.
Chairman in the course of 2007.
Also retiring is Claudio Gonzalez, one of our Non-Executive Directors.
We would like to thank them all for their valuable contribution during their years of service.
06 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Ralph Kugler has been nominated for election as an Executive Director at the Annual General Meetings in May.
He is currently Business President Home and Personal Care Europe.
Looking to the future 2005 is the 75th anniversary of the foundation of Unilever.
With the changes we have put in place, with a small and committed leadership team, with dedicated and talented people, we are confident that Unilever will deliver another 75 years of sustained growth and increased shareholder value through serving the needs of our consumers and customers around the globe.
We remain completely committed to delivering Total Shareholder Return in the top third of our peer group.
We will measure our progress by Free Cash Flow generation and an improvement in our Return on Invested Capital.
We believe these are the best measures of value creation: in addition, they allow us to retain the flexibility to build the long-term health of your business in changing circumstances.
2004 was a testing year but together we have come through it as a strong team.
We would like to thank all of our employees around the world for their loyalty and effort.
We are fortunate in having such talented and diverse people.
We know we can count on their continued support and redoubled efforts in 2005 and beyond.
Antony Burgmans Patrick Cescau Chairmen of Unilever Left: Patrick Cescau Right: Antony Burgmans Performance review Despite a disappointing year, Unilever is a stronger business than it was five years ago.
The number one priority for 2005 is to restore sustainable growth.
Five-year Path to Growth scorecard Target Achievement Revenue generation Underlying sales growth 56% Leading brand growth 0.9% in 2004, 3.6% 20002004 % of sales in leading brands from 75% to 95% 95% Increase in advertising and promotion as % of sales 2% 1.5% Cash generation Restructuring and buying savings 3.1 bn exceeded Bestfoods synergy 0.8 bn exceeded Operating margin BEIA from 11% to 16% 15.2% Capital productivity to improve the ratio improved by 9 percentage points by 6 percentage points EPS BEIA growth constant exchange rates Low double digits 5% in 2004 in every year 11.3% average Capital productivity fixed assets working capital expressed as a % of sales.
The following commentary is based on trends at constant 2003 2004 exchange rates.
2004 was clearly a very disappointing year for Unilever.
Underlying sales growth was 0.4%, with leading brands growth of 0.9%.
Path to Growth Operating margin BEIA was 15.2%, 0.6% lower than in 2003.
2004 marked the final year of Path to Growth, a bold This reflects a decline in price, slightly higher advertising transformational agenda designed to bring about a step change and promotion expenditure and unrecovered overheads following in growth and profitability.
While many of the milestones set have disposals.
The impact of increased commodity costs in the year been met see scorecard above, sustained top-line growth has was fully offset by procurement savings.
In spite of lower operating not been achieved.
profit, earnings per share BEIA grew by 5%, boosted by lower tax and financing costs.
Net borrowing costs were reduced by 19% in Following Path to Growth, Unilever is a stronger business with the year with both net debt and interest rates lower than last year.
excellent market position in the 13 categories in which we compete.
The financing costs of pensions were also lower.
The brand portfolio is more focused, having reduced from 1 600 down to 400 leading brands.
Nearly two-thirds of sales are generated The fourth quarter saw a planned step-up in restructuring costs by brands with sales in excess of 0.5 billion and 12 brands now with the start of the implementation of the overheads simplification have sales of over 1 billion.
Scale has been leveraged better as project, One Unilever, announced in mid-2004.
In addition, a charge evidenced by the marked improvement in both underlying of 650 million 591 million at current exchange rates was taken profitability and capital efficiency.
for the impairment of goodwill for Slim Fast.
The weight management category declined significantly in the second half of However, after a promising start, including two good years of 2004 reflecting a declining interest by consumers in the more growth and market share gains in 2001 and 2002, the initial extreme low-carb diet.
Consumers as yet have not been attracted progress was not sustained.
Although markets have been tougher back to the more conventional weight management programmes than expected over the past 18 months, some market share has such as Slim Fast: recovery will therefore take longer than expected also been lost.
There were three fundamental reasons for this.
and will be from a substantially smaller base.
A 177 million Firstly, we let a range of targets limit our flexibility.
Secondly, 169 million at current exchange rates provision was made for we did not adjust our plans quickly enough to react to a more the potential repayment of certain sales tax credits in Brazil.
Finally, we took our eye off our competitiveness, and our execution could have been sharper.
Cash flow, however, was again strong, which together with the weaker US dollar enabled net debt to be reduced to 9.7 billion at current exchange rates.
This has enabled an increased dividend pay-out for 2004 and the announcement of a share buy-back programme for 2005.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 09 Performance review continued Foods In Latin America, a cholesterol-free Hellmanns mayonnaise met the growing demand for healthy heart products.
New Knorr soup In 2004, foods turnover declined by 3% to 23.5 billion.
Operating ranges were launched in Mexico and Argentina, while in Brazil profit BEIA reduced by 6.9% to 3.6 billion.
we launched low unit price Knorr seasoning cubes, particularly relevant to lower-income consumers.
Savoury and dressings We are the worlds number one savoury and dressings business, with Our olive oil business performed well, with strong results from well-known brands such as Bertolli, Calv, Hellmanns and Knorr.
Bertolli Olive Oil in Germany, the US, Canada and Italy.
We are developing our savoury and dressings brands through new Spreads and cooking products products that suit the changing lifestyles of our consumers.
We In spreads and cooking products our healthy heart brands are keeping them relevant through the creation of world-class Becel Flora and family brands, including Blue Band, Country Crock communication and launches into new trade channels and markets.
and Rama, all contributed to a leading global position.
Operating margin BEIA improved from 17.4% to 18.6% with our restructuring and procurement Underlying sales grew by 1.6% with strong momentum in the programmes more than offsetting commodity cost pressures.
Operating margin BEIA declined to 16.4% as we increased advertising and promotion behind innovations.
Our performance in Europe was mixed.
There was strong growth such as dairy cream alternatives and the extension of pro activ to in dressings in Russia and the UK.
However, this was partly offset yoghurt, milk and once-a-day shots.
by declines in dressings in France and the Netherlands and in savoury in the UK as we faced a challenging trade environment Our healthy heart brands were strengthened further with the.
successful launch of Becel Flora pro activ milk drinks and yoghurts in a number of European markets and these brands continued to In North America, Hellmanns dressings benefited from strong brand gain share in spreads.
There were also good performances by wellactivation and an improved go-to-market strategy.
Excellent results established brands like Rama and Blue Band following the extension were achieved with our Carb Options dressings, part of a wider into the range of Finesse cooking creams at the end of 2003. range of low-carbohydrate products.
This was followed by the launch of chilled side dishes under our Country Crock brand across In North America, Country Crock produced excellent results, while the US towards the end of the year.
the launch of Carb Options Skippy peanut butter is now being followed by an extension into snack bars.
In Turkey, there were good results for Becel, but significant price reductions on our Sana brand to defend our market volume meant a decline in sales.
Overall growth in the category was held back by lower sales of tail brands which are being managed for value and in which investment is low.
Low-carb living Millions of people are reducing their carbohydrate intake but they are still craving delicious foods and recipes.
Carb Options is an innovative line of great-tasting products specially made for those people choosing a low-carb diet.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 11 Performance review continued Beverages formerly Health & wellness and beverages Slim Fast goodwill resulted in an impairment charge of 650 million We lead the market in tea-based beverages with Lipton leaf and 591 million at current exchange rates being taken in the ready-to-drink tea.
Slim Fast also remains the number one brand fourth quarter.
in the weight management category in the US.
AdeS, our nutritional soy-based drink, continued to grow strongly Our beverages business performed below par in 2004, with an in Argentina, Mexico and Brazil and the product range was underlying sales decline of 3.9%.
Operating margin BEIA declined extended with the launch of AdeS Yofresh, a soy-based alternative from 14.8% to 12.1%, the decline being primarily attributable to yoghurt drinks.
to the cost of re-organising the production facilities for Slim Fast.
Ice cream and frozen foods Growth in leaf tea and good progress with AdeS soy-based drinks Fun and indulgence are at the heart of our ice cream brands, which were more than offset by declines in ready-to-drink tea and Slim Fast.
include Carte dOr, Magnum and Solero, and lead the market across the world.
Our frozen foods business is number one in Europe, In Europe, poor summer weather resulted in reduced sales of our focused on the Iglo Birds Eye Findus brands.
ready-to-drink Lipton Ice Tea range.
However, leaf teas performed considerably better.
The launch of Lipton Ice Tea Green and Lipton Underlying sales of ice cream and frozen foods were lower by 3.4%, green leaf teas established the brand as the market leader in green with declines in both categories.
Operating margin BEIA declined tea, while difficult trading conditions impacted negatively on the to 12.4% with profitability impacted by both poor ice cream sales UK and Ireland, two of our biggest tea markets in Europe.
in Europe and increased dairy costs in North America.
In Asia, Brooke Bond tea in India and Sariwangi in Indonesia both Ice cream sales in Europe were affected by a poorer summer grew strongly.
In China we introduced Lipton Asian tea bags and compared with the excellent weather conditions in the summer Lipton Milk Tea powders.
However, it was a difficult year for tea of 2003.
Lower-priced competition led to some market share loss in Pakistan, which faced increased promotional activity by local in take-home tubs, but this was partly offset by the roll-out of competition.
new variants such as Magnum Intense and Cornetto Love Potions.
Our Pepsi Lipton International joint venture, launched in 2003 Our US ice cream brands Ben & Jerrys, Breyers and Klondike to accelerate our growth in under-developed ready-to-drink tea continued to grow well, gaining market share in a highly competitive markets, is producing strong results.
Key to this success has been meeting consumer demand for health and wellness lines such as low-carb, low-sugar, lactoseOur health and wellness brands, largely made up of Slim Fast, free and yoghurt products, which now represent over 20% of were hard hit by rapidly changing dieting preferences.
In the first our portfolio.
half of the year we stabilised market share with the launch of a low-carb range.
Towards the end of the year we re-launched the In Latin America, we successfully launched AdeS Kibon ice cream, entire Slim Fast portfolio in the US, with improved formulations extending the soy benefits of AdeS into ice cream.
In Asia, there which include up to 55% less sugar content.
The weightwas strong growth of our ice cream businesses, particularly management category in North America declined significantly in Indonesia and China.
during the second half of 2004.
Our review of the carrying value of Appealing to our senses The senses are dulled in winter due to the lack of colour associated with the other seasons.
One of the best ways to add more colour to our day is with the foods we eat.
A timehonoured favourite, soup, is one of the best foods to deliver overall sensory appeal.
Knorr launched its first soup in 1887 and soup has been central to Knorr ever since.
Soup offers a good nutritional balance as it contains complex carbohydrates which are a good source of fibre.
It is also low in calories, fat and cholesterol.
12 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 The frozen food business is being reorganised to focus more on higher-growth segments of the market, while margins continue to improve through restructuring.
The re-launch of the Iglo Birds Eye Findus brand family was started in the second half of the year with Birds Eye in the UK.
This has been well received and is being rolled out to the other key European markets in 2005, providing a common identity for the brands.
Innovations included Steam Fresh vegetables and meals, bringing the benefits of steaming to consumers across countries in Europe.
Unilever Foodsolutions, our global foodservice business, works with caterers, restaurateurs and major hotel and fast-food chains around the world.
In 2004, underlying sales grew in low single digits, driven by a strong performance in developing and emerging markets.
Performance review continued Home and personal care In hair care, we base our business on the Dove and Sunsilk global mixes supported by Clear, Lux, mods, Suave and Timotei in In 2004, home and personal care turnover declined by 0.5% to particular regions.
In 2004, Sunsilk continued its double-digit 18.3 billion.
Operating profit BEIA reduced by 3.7% to 2.8 billion.
growth and was rolled out in Europe.
Variant innovations as solutions to daily hair problems were the foundation of the brands Personal care success, communicated globally through the Hair Dramas In personal care, we lead the global deodorants and skin cleansing campaign.
However, overall growth in the category was held back markets, and are in the top three in daily hair care and mass-market by a fierce competitive response to our previous market share skin care.
Six global brands Axe, Dove, Lux, Ponds, Rexona and gains in Japan.
This has been addressed through the re-launch of Sunsilk form the core of our business in these categories.
Lux and mods shampoos, which restored growth towards the end of the year.
In India, volumes were well ahead, but at significantly They are complemented by Suave, mainly in North America, health lower prices, whilst in North America portfolio issues have brands such as Clear, Lifebuoy and Vaseline and a selection of restricted growth.
In skin cleansing, we remain the global leader primarily through In 2004, our personal care business had underlying sales growth the Axe, Dove, Lifebuoy and Lux brands.
Market share improved in Europe and Africa, Middle East performance in North America offset share gains in other territories.
and Turkey: in a number of other regions, market share had started In skin care, Dove has been successful with firming lotion in Europe, to recover by the end of the year following some declines earlier in and this has been the vehicle for the Real Beauty communication the year.
Operating margin BEIA was broadly flat at 17.6%.
Fair & Lovely has enjoyed a strong year in India, while Vaseline has been re-launched in the highly active US market.
Deodorants saw another year of double-digit growth, with increased market share in most regions, and we are now the leader in 15 of In oral care, we have strong positions in a number of countries in the top 20 markets in the world.
Axe had another excellent year, Europe and in developing and emerging markets, particularly with based on its notable success in North America where the brand our Signal and Close Up toothpaste brands.
In 2004 we continued now has close to 13% market share two years after launch.
to focus investment behind these brands relaunching core variants Elsewhere, growth came from the new fragrance Touch, higher of Signal under the extended protection proposition and launching consumption in Latin America through all-over-body usage, and a top-performance toothbrush with new bristle technology.
the deployment of award-winning advertising.
Rexona continues to add market share as the worlds largest deodorant brand it Our global Prestige fragrance business is based on the Calvin Klein was re-launched in Europe, where it is now the market leader for range, which includes cK one, Eternity and Obsession, complemented women, with new body-responsive technology, and successful by ranges developed with other designers.
The Prestige fragrance variants such as Rexona Ebony have been launched in Latin America.
business met our 2004 expectations, delivering sharply improved profitability and cash flow.
The key launch was Eternity Moment in the third quarter, which quickly established itself as one of the leading new fragrances in Europe this year.
Celebration of real women Firming products are normally advertised with stick-thin unrealistic models who do not really have anything to firm.
With the first firming range celebrating real women with real curves, Dove broke the norm in their advertising and conquered the hearts of millions of European women.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 15 Performance review continued Home care Our household care products are designed to meet most cleaning In home care, we are market leaders in laundry products in and hygiene needs around the home.
In this category, our heartland developing and emerging markets and hold number two positions is Europe, where Cif and Domestos hold good positions in the key in most of Europe and North America.
Our products have been markets in which they operate.
developed to meet the diverse requirements of consumers to clean and care for their clothes.
They include tablets for convenience, The household care business declined due to difficult trading traditional powders and liquids for washing by hand or machine.
conditions in Europe, despite strong growth in developing and Tailored products, including soap bars, are available for loweremerging markets.
Attention was focused on the profitability income consumers.
of the business, which improved significantly.
Our brands include Comfort, Omo, Radiant, Skip, Snuggle and In the regions Surf, and they are available in over 100 countries.
Underlying sales in Europe as a whole declined by 2.8%.
In In 2004, our home care business saw declining underlying sales.
Western Europe, trading conditions were difficult due to the Volumes grew by 1.8% but this was more than offset by price continuing growth of hard discounters and the responses of declines, reflecting increased consumer sensitivity in this area traditional retailers looking to compete through value on both resulting in reduced market sizes in the developed world.
branded and private label products.
In addition, ice cream and Operating margin BEIA declined from 12.6% to 11.3% with ready-to-drink tea suffered from a poorer summer than the profitability affected by difficult trading in Western Europe.
Our business in Central and Eastern Europe grew by over 5%.
Performance was on the whole disappointing.
Despite gains in specific territories, overall market share fell with growth In North America we grew by 1.5%, despite disappointing sales in in developing markets offset by the decline in Europe and Slim Fast.
There was good growth in the rest of the Foods business North America.
but some market share loss in Home and Personal Care in weak markets.
In laundry, our top-performance fabric-cleaning brand, Omo, which is aligned to a common brand proposition across the world, Our growth in Asia was only 1.4% as some of our leadership continued to perform well in difficult trading conditions.
Omo positions came under competitive attack.
We are defending these strengthened its position in a number of key markets such as robustly.
Latin America had another strong year with underlying Argentina, China, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam.
The success sales ahead by 7.2%, while growth in Africa, Middle East and of Omo was supported by the Pockets campaign in parts of Turkey was more modest at 3.1%.
Africa, Asia and Latin America, as well as the Dirt is Good campaign and innovations such as Omo Aloe Vera in Latin America.
The future Other brands that performed well included the Radiant family In 2005, Unilevers priority will be to regain market share and superior whiteness and brightness marketed as Ala and Rin, and momentum and strengthen its competitiveness.
We will do this by the fabric conditioner brand Comfort.
further developing our brands to meet emerging consumer needs, rolling out new initiatives faster across our markets and increasing marketing resources behind proven initiatives.
Doing the little extra For the ones you love, the core of the Comfort brand is doing the little extra.
And this little extra step of using Comfort gives our consumers the pleasure of making clothes more special to show their families how much they care.
This means giving more than just clean laundry, but enjoying fresher and softer clothes as well.
16 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Recognising the quality and increasing availability of external science and technology, Unilever is opening up its approach to innovation, extending the model pioneered by Unilever Technology Ventures.
External innovation partners are being engaged throughout the product innovation process and new partnerships are being formed with early-stage companies, research institutions and key suppliers.
This will generate opportunities that neither partner can deliver in isolation and accelerate our speed to market.
Early examples of these collaborations include the exploration of natural ingredients to improve food functionality and the development of more efficient and effective ways to identify new agents for garment care.
People Our peoples creativity, energy and passion drive our business.
This is most evident during periods of change and under challenging trading conditions.
We are working hard to build global teams equipped to deliver business growth.
Staying connected Unilever is consistently ranked among the worlds most admired employers and is known to be a company that puts its people first.
We strive to stay connected and carry out world-wide people surveys and pulse checks to gain valuable feedback and insight, which we use to help shape our future direction.
In 2004 our biennial Global People Survey had an 86% participation rate.
We want our people to feel directly involved in the performance of the business, so encourage participation in employee share plans: our internal communication processes help ensure that our people relate to the business.
One of our ongoing goals is to help our business leaders connect to our people around the world and achieve a shared understanding of our business achievements and future challenges.
Embracing difference Unilever is one of the most diverse companies in the world, with 223 000 people in around 100 countries.
We believe that as our people grow, each in their own way, so our business grows.
In Unilever, diversity is about inclusion embracing our differences and creating an environment that inspires people to contribute to our business.
We continue to create a community that encourages individuals to be themselves within a framework of shared values and goals.
This means giving full and fair consideration to all applicants and continuing development to all employees, regardless of gender, nationality, race, creed, disability, style or sexuality.
In 2004, we launched an online toolkit that helps our managers promote diversity.
The toolkit asks managers to take part in a three-step process to engage, participate and believe and provides resources to suit a range of different learning styles.
Global teamworking We celebrate all of our great teams around the world who bring out the best in our business, safeguarding our present and ensuring that we are well prepared for the future.
More than 30% of our managers are women and our senior management team is made up of 32 nationalities.
Building centres of expertise We encourage our people to learn continuously, to pursue their personal goals and develop professionally.
To help achieve this we have established a community of learning academies for professional skills training in Finance, Human Resources, Information Technology, Marketing, Supply Chain and Customer Development.
Increasingly, our academies link up and share best practice and learning across the business.
Our HR Academy, through its Business Partners Development Programme, is leading the way in building the skills and competencies of our HR managers who work closely with our business leaders.
In 2004, the academy trained 108 HR managers, covering 48 nationalities based in more than 50 countries.
A highlight of 2004 was the opening of our refurbished international management training centre, Four Acres.
The facility exploits stateof-the-art technology, making it possible for employees to access learning and business presentations from their desktops wherever they are in the world.
Developing world-class teams A key enabler for our future success is to take our best people and create global teams.
We now have global brand teams, in addition to global teams in finance, HR and supply management.
These teams are increasingly supported by regional shared services in support functions.
This evolving organisation is creating a streamlined structure that is able to focus more on delivering growth.
In 2004 work started on redeveloping our Corporate Centre building in London, following completion of that in Rotterdam.
The objective is to stimulate new ways of working together.
This has been done to shape our business for future growth and to foster a sense of belonging to a truly international business.
The HPC Global Supply Chain team of around 120 people comprises 20 nationalities.
In purchasing there are 15 global supply management teams, which delivered more than 700 million of cost savings during Path to Growth by working with our suppliers to get best value from our global scale.
Corporate responsibility We believe by doing business in a responsible way we have a positive social impact.
We invest in local economies, develop peoples skills and create and share wealth, working in partnership both locally and internationally.
Putting words into practice Brands working in partnership Bringing our values to life and backing up our commitments Our oral care brands have signed a partnership with the World with actions is achieved by engaging with our stakeholders and Dental Federation that will focus on promoting improved oral building relationships with organisations that share our goals.
One health for people around the world.
Becel Flora continues to work example is our work with the UN Global Compact, a multi-sector with the World Heart Federation.
forum that brings together business, international and civil society organisations to tackle poverty and help build sustainability.
In December 2004, we joined forces with UNICEF to tackle UN Millennium Development Goal 4, which aims to reduce mortality We work directly with the Compact at local and international levels rates among children under five by two-thirds over the next and in January 2004 hosted a workshop to share learning on the 10 years.
We will work closely with UNICEF and bring to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
These partnership our knowledge of nutrition and hygiene.
We have businesses are a key contributor to economic development by proven ability in delivering affordable products to low-income providing employment, developing skills and generating prosperity.
consumers and experience of contributing to sustainable development in different regions of the world.
There are many other examples where we share our business expertise and knowledge to benefit the communities in which we Interest in how we manage our own operations now extends to operate.
In Africa our operating companies have been managing supply-chain relations.
We want to work with suppliers who have issues caused by the HIV AIDS epidemic since the 1980s.
We have values similar to our own and work to the same standards as we do.
developed education and prevention programmes for our people and have made them freely available to local communities and As part of our commitment to this we have developed a Business on the web.
Partner Code, aligned to our own Code of Business Principles.
It comprises 10 principles covering business integrity and responsibilities Another example is our Lifebuoy Swasthya Chetna programme, relating to employees, consumers and the environment.
We are which is the biggest rural health and hygiene educational programme working towards positive assurance of adherence to the Code from ever undertaken in India.
Our goal is to help educate people about all first-tier suppliers by the end of 2005. basic hygiene habits, including washing their hands with soap.
We work with parents, health educators, teachers, community leaders Making ourselves accountable and government agencies to spread the message.
In 2004 the The values that inspire us and govern the way we manage our programme covered 18 000 villages and reached 70 million people.
business are clearly set out in our Corporate Purpose and Code of Business Principles.
They provide a framework within which In 2004, we continued our active engagement in voluntary our managers can operate and be held accountable.
The Code initiatives, spending 65 million at current rates of exchange sets out our respect for the human rights of our employees, on community projects.
The tsunami disaster in South East Asia including freedom of association and labour union membership.
evoked an immediate response from our companies in the region.
Some of our employees are members of such labour unions.
We lent manpower and time, threw open our distribution networks and donated appropriate products and money where In 2004, we completed the world-wide roll-out of a confidential they were needed most on the ground in the affected areas.
ethics hotline, introduced as a way for our people to raise concerns Contributions by employees to the Unilever Disaster Relief Fund relating to our business principles.
We are carrying out pulse were matched by Unilever, to give a total of 1.4 million.
checks to ensure that employees are aware of the hotline and understand its importance.
Lifebuoy hygiene campaign A World Bank report says hand-washing can reduce the incidence of diarrhoea by 48%.
Lifebuoys glow germ demonstration counters the common misconception that visibly clean is hygienically clean.
Glow germ powder glows when applied to hands washed only with water, providing a dramatic reminder of the need for thorough hand-washing with soap.
20 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 We communicate our performance and the progress we are making through the Environment and Society section of our website and publish summary social and environmental reports.
We are also producing a series of articles, Global Challenges: Local Actions, on how we are working with a range of external partners to tackle issues such as nutrition, hygiene and sustainable development.
For more information visit www.
com ourvalues  Environment We improved our performance in managing the impact of our manufacturing activities on the environment and our three sustainability initiatives agriculture, fish and water continue to make good progress.
Manufacturing performance Protecting fish stocks Our manufacturing operations use seven parameters to measure In Europe we now buy more than half our fish from sustainable the emissions from our factories and set targets for eco-efficiency.
fisheries and expect this figure to rise to around 60% in 2005.
In 2003 latest available figures, we continued to improve on our Although this falls short of the 100% target we set ourselves 2002 performance, meeting four of our targets.
We failed to hit in 1996, substantial improvements have been made in difficult our targets for hazardous and non-hazardous waste and CO from circumstances, such as the unforeseen length of the certification 2 energy emissions.
We continue to engage with fisheries that have not yet fully adopted the disciplines of sustainable production and will We have reduced the unit load of sulphur oxides emitted from continue to work with them on improvement programmes.
We have also made significant reductions in energy and water consumption and reduced the The Marine Stewardship Council MSC, which we co-founded with levels of waste generated by our operations.
the WWF in 1996 and have supported since it became independent in 1999, has established a global standard for sustainable fisheries.
Setting targets and monitoring our progress against them are an As one of the worlds largest buyers of frozen fish, we encourage important part of our systematic approach to reduce our impact all our suppliers to work towards the MSC Standard.
We currently on the environment.
Detailed performance information is published sell Alaskan pollock, South African hake and New Zealand hoki in our summary environment report and on our website.
sourced from fisheries certified to the MSC Standard.
Sustainable agriculture programme Clean water supplies More than two-thirds of the raw materials used in our products Ensuring clean water supplies is fundamental to our business.
This led us to develop our Sustainable As part of our Sustainable Water Initiative, we have looked at Agriculture Programme, which, together with our partners, we our water use through the full life cycle of our products from are implementing across our supply chain.
sourcing raw materials to consumer use.
This has given us a global picture our imprint of the way we impact on water In 2004, the roll-out of our Good Agricultural Practice guidelines resources.
It tells us water use is concentrated in the growing GAP for our crops gained momentum.
We published guidelines of raw materials and in the use of our products by consumers.
in local languages for sustainable tea production in India, Kenya Our latest figures show that we have more than halved water and Tanzania.
consumption in our factories since 1995.
In Latin America, for example, the Medusa project to improve water efficiency has saved We are a founding member of the Roundtable on Sustainable in excess of 700 000 cubic metres of water since June 2003.
Palm Oil RSPO, a multi-stakeholder initiative set up in 2003 with the WWF formerly the Worldwide Fund for Nature.
The RSPO now In India, Hindustan Lever Limited has launched a handwash laundry has 55 members and 17 affiliate members, and has produced a product, Surf Excel Quick Wash, with a low-foaming formulation, draft framework document on the criteria for palm oil sustainability.
which reduces the amount of water needed for rinsing by up to two buckets a wash.
The launch was combined with a consumer The first steps have been taken to extend our agricultural initiatives education programme in areas with water shortages.
to all major vegetable oils, including olive, rape, soya and sunflower.
For more information about Unilevers environmental and social activities, visit www.
com ourvalues  Sustainable crop production Our sustainability initiatives in agriculture, fish and water are three areas where we can make a measurable contribution to a healthy environment.
Our many growers follow our guidelines to produce crops, such as tea, sustainably.
Lipton Yellow Label contains a significant proportion of Kenyan tea, some of which is sourced from our own estates in Kenya.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 23 Board of Directors Executive Directors 1 Antony Burgmans Chairman, Unilever N. V. Nationality: Dutch.
Chairman of Unilever N. V. and Vice-Chairman of Unilever PLC since 4 May 1999.
Previous posts include: Vice-Chairman of Unilever N. V. 1998. Business Group President, Ice Cream & Frozen Foods Europe and Chairman of Unilever Europe Committee 1996-1998.
Responsible for South European Foods business 1994-1996.
External appointments include: Member, Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. Non-Executive Director of BP p. l. c. and Clive Butler Andr baron van Heemstra Member, International Advisory Board of Allianz AG.
Corporate Development Director Personnel Director Nationality: British.
Personnel Director Non-Executive Chairman designate, Unilever N. V. Director since 1 January 2001.
Previous posts include: Director 3 May 2000.
Previous posts include: Business Category Director, Home and Personal Care 1996.
Group President, East Asia Pacific 1996.
Chairman, 1 Patrick Cescau Personnel Director 1993-1996.
Chairman, Unilever PLC and IT Director 1992.
Chairman of Unilever PLC Andr baron van Heemstra will not be offering himself and Vice-Chairman Unilever N. V. since 1 October 2004.
Clive Butler will not be offering himself for re-election for re-election at the 2005 AGMs.
Appointed Director 4 May 1999. at the 2005 AGMs.
Previous posts include: Foods Director 2001.
Controller and Deputy Financial Director Keki Dadiseth Financial Director 1998-1999.
Home and Personal Care Director Nationality: British.
Financial Director since President and CEO, Van den Bergh Foods USA 1995- Nationality: Indian.
Home and Personal Care 4 August 2000.
Previous posts include: Strategy appointments include: Non-Executive Director of Appointed Director 3 May 2000.
Previous posts include: & Technology Director 1998. Business Group President, Pearson plc and Conseiller du Commerce Extrieur Hindustan Lever Chairman 1996.
External appointments North East Asia 1996-1998.
Chairman, Nippon Lever fide la France in the Netherlands.
include: Non-Executive Director of The Indian Hotels Japan 1992-1996.
Member, International Advisory Board of 1989-1992.
External Group Chief Executive designate.
appointments include: Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC.
Keki Dadiseth will not be offering himself for re-election at the 2005 AGMs.
Kees van der Graaf Foods Director Nationality: Dutch.
Previous posts include: Business Group President, Ice Cream & Frozen Foods 2001.
Executive Vice-President, Foods and Beverages Europe 1998.
Senior Vice-President, Global Ice Cream Category 1995.
Foods Member East Asia Pacific Regional Management 1990.
Marketing and Grocery Sales Director, Frigo, Spain 1986.
Member Executive Committee President Europe designate.
Appointed 12 May 2004 previously Advisory Director Executive Team Member designate 1 Member Nomination Committee 2 Member External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee 3 Chairman External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee 4 Chairman Nomination Committee 5 Chairman Remuneration Committee 6 Senior Independent Director 7 Member Audit Committee 8 Chairman Audit Committee 9 Member Remuneration Committee 24 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Non-Executive Directors 7 1,9 The Rt Hon The Lord Brittan of Spennithorne Oscar Fanjul The Lord Simon of Highbury CBE 2 QC, DL Nationality: Spanish.
Honorary Chairman of Repsol-YPF S. A.
Director of Advisory Board of LEK Consulting.
Non-Executive Vice-Chairman of UBS Investment Bank and Chairman Marsh & McLennan Companies, the London Stock Director of Suez Group.
Member, Supervisory Board of of UBS Limited.
Member of the European Commission Exchange, Acerinox S. A. and Tcnicas Reunidas S. A. Volkswagen AG.
Senior Advisor and Member, European and Vice-President 1989-1999.
Member of the UK Member, International Advisory Boards of Marsh & Advisory Board of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
Home Secretary 1983-1985 McLennan Companies and Sviluppo Italia and of the Government Minister 1997-1999.
Group Chief and Secretary of State for Trade and Industry 1985-1986.
European Advisory Board of the Carlyle Group.
Chairman and CEO of Repsol 1986-1996.
3 1,9 The Rt Hon The Baroness Chalker of Wallasey Jeroen van der Veer 7 Nationality: British.
Director Claudio X Gonzalez Nationality: Dutch.
President of Freeplay Energy plc and Group 5 Pty Ltd.
Royal Dutch Petroleum Company and Chief Executive International Advisory Board of Lafarge et Cie. UK Chairman and CEO of Kimberly-Clark fide Mexico S. A. Royal Dutch Shell Group.
Former Member, Supervisory Minister of State at the Foreign and Commonwealth Director of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Kellogg Board of fide Nederlandsche Bank 2000-2004.
Company, General Electric Company USA, Grupo Carso S. A. Grupo Alfa, Grupo Mexico, Grupo Televisa, 4,5, 6 Bertrand Collomb Fondo Mexico, Home Depot, America Movil and Nationality: French.
Special Advisor Chairman of Lafarge S. A.
Director of Vivendi Universal, to the President of Mexico 1988-1994.
Member, Advisory Board of Banque fide France.
Claudio X Gonzalez will not be offering himself for re-election at the 2005 AGMs.
Vice-Chairman designate, Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC.
8 Hilmar Kopper 2 Professor Wim Dik Nationality: German.
Professor Chairman, Supervisory Board of DaimlerChrysler AG.
at Delft University of Technology.
Chairman, Supervisory Non-Executive Director of Xerox Corp. Chairman, Boards of Tele Atlas N. V. and N. V. Casema.
Member, German Advisory Board of Spencer Stuart.
Member, Supervisory Board of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. Advisory Board of Sviluppo Italia SpA.
Former CEO and Non-Executive Director of Aviva plc and LogicaCMG plc.
former Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Deutsche Chairman and CEO of Koninklijke PTT Nederland KPN Bank AG.
1988-1998 and Koninklijke KPN N. V. Royal Dutch Telecom 1998-2000.
Minister for Foreign Trade, Netherlands 1981-1982.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 25 Corporate governance Structures Business structure Hitherto our operations have been organised into two global Legal structure divisions Foods, and Home and Personal Care headed by NV and PLC are the two parent companies of the Unilever Group, Division Directors.
These have been supported by their Business having separate legal identities and separate stock exchange listings Presidents, responsible for the profitability of their regional or global for their shares, which are not interchangeable.
group companies, they operate, as far as is practicable, as a single entity and constitute a single group for the purposes of presenting This divisional and regional structure has facilitated alignment consolidated accounts.
with the divisional objectives and strategy, whilst ensuring that close operational control is maintained within regions which are In order to ensure unity of governance and management, they largely homogenous.
have the same Directors and are linked by a number of co-operation agreements.
In particular, there is the Equalisation Agreement In 2005, we will introduce a new, simpler structure that comprises that regulates the mutual rights of the two sets of shareholders, three regions, Europe, The Americas and Asia AMET, whose including a formula for paying dividends.
These features mean that managements will be responsible for our market operations, and all shareholders, whether of NV or PLC, share in the prosperity of two category managements, Foods, and Home and Personal Care, the whole business.
responsible for innovation and category management.
Our objective is enhanced clarity of role and responsibility, whilst retaining the NV and PLC are holding and service companies.
Unilevers businesses advantages of control and alignment.
are carried out by their operating companies around the world, which are normally owned ultimately by either NV or PLC, although Corporate governance some companies are held jointly by NV and PLC.
The Boards All the Directors are directors of both NV and PLC.
Taking into NV shareholders PLC shareholders account their respective roles as Executive and Non-Executive Directors, collectively, they are ultimately responsible for the management, general affairs, direction and performance of the business as a whole.
Directors Directors are elected by shareholders at the Annual General Meetings of NV and PLC and make themselves fully accountable by submitting NV Equalisation PLC themselves for re-election each year.
Our nomination procedures and other are designed to ensure that the same people are the Directors agreements of both companies.
The interests of shareholders are protected because they can remove the Directors and, ultimately, overrule NV owned Jointly owned PLC owned our nominations.
operating operating operating companies companies companies The Boards currently comprise seven Executive Directors and nine Independent Non-Executive Directors.
See page 28 for the changes planned for 2005.
They meet, under the chairmanship of either the Chairman of NV or the Chairman of PLC, at least seven times a year, to consider important events and actions for NV, PLC and the Unilever Group.
These matters include, for example, results announcements, the Annual Reports and Accounts, dividends, corporate strategy, annual plans, risks and controls, major business transactions, and Board appointments and remuneration.
26 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 The Boards have delegated certain matters to Board Committees.
The Boards and the Board Committees are assisted by a number There are arrangements in place covering induction, briefings, of Management Committees.
These include the Code of Business performance evaluation, professional advice and liability insurance.
Principles Compliance, Corporate Risk, Disclosures and Investment Review Committees.
They are also supported by our Corporate Under our current corporate governance arrangements, the Officers, who are the Joint Secretaries, Chief Auditor, Controller, Chairmen and the other Executive Directors are all of our top tier General Counsel and Treasurer.
of executives and they make up the Executive Committee.
This Committee has been appointed by the Boards who delegated to A more detailed corporate governance statement, as well as it responsibility for operational management.
It has been headed the annual reports of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration jointly by Antony Burgmans and Patrick Cescau, currently the Committees, are contained in the Unilever Annual Report and Chairmen of NV and PLC respectively.
The other members have Accounts 2004.
This Annual Report, our Code of Business Principles, been the Corporate Development Director, the Financial Director, NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and The Governance of the Foods Director, the Home and Personal Care Director and Unilever, the Boards statement of its arrangements, are on our the Personnel Director.
Each has had specific management website at www.
com ourcompany investorcentre The responsibilities and, both individually and as a group, report Governance of Unilever contains, amongst other things, our rules regularly to the Board.
on Independence and the remits of the Board Committees.
As indicated on pages 6 and 28, we are introducing significant Compliance changes in our arrangements in 2005.
The separation of the roles Unilever is subject to the corporate governance requirements in of Chairman and Chief Executive means that there will be a single the Netherlands, the UK and, as a foreign private issuer, the US.
We Non-Executive Chairman of NV and PLC, with operational took the different perspectives of these various rules into account management responsibility lying with the Group Chief Executive.
in preparing the preceding description of our Board arrangements.
The Executive Committee will disappear as a Board Committee.
Shareholders will be asked at the Annual General Meetings in May The changes made to our corporate governance arrangements at 2005 to approve changes to the NV and PLC Articles of Association.
the AGMs in 2004 consisted of the appointment of Non-Executive Directors to join our Executive Directors on our existing single tier The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the execution Boards for NV and PLC.
This board structure is not the one most of the Boards duties, taking into account their specific responsibilities, familiar to either our shareholders in the Netherlands, where a which are essentially supervisory.
They, in particular, comprise the two-tier board has been customary, or our shareholders in the US, principal external presence in the governance of Unilever, and provide where the most senior executives draw their authority primarily a strong independent element.
Our Non-Executive Directors are from their corporate office rather than their appointment, if any, chosen for their broad and relevant experience and international as a Director.
Nevertheless, we can reassure you that these changes, outlook, as well as their independence.
They have appointed when added to our appropriately updated existing procedures, Bertrand Collomb as Senior Independent Director and he acts as mean that we comply, both in the letter as well as the spirit, with their spokesman.
In 2005, he will be made Vice-Chairman of NV almost all of the applicable requirements.
Key elements of their role and responsibilities as Non-Executive Directors include strategy, scrutiny of performance, controls, remuneration, succession planning, reporting to shareholders, governance and compliance.
They also form the Audit Committee which is fully compliant with the applicable rules in the Netherlands, UK and US that are common to all three countries, the External Affairs and Corporate Relations Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the majority of the Nomination Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the Executive Directors present, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director on a regular basis.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 27 Corporate governance continued Full compliance statements, which cover more detailed points and Antony Burgmans will take up the role of Non-Executive Chairman of include appropriate explanations, are contained in the Annual Report NV and PLC and Patrick Cescau will become Group Chief Executive.
This is also available on www.
com Rudy Markham will be Chief Financial Officer and Kees van der Graaf ourcompany investorcentre We should, however, draw your and Ralph Kugler will be President Europe and Category President attention to the following features of our corporate governance Home and Personal Care respectively.
arrangements: Leon Brittan, Lynda Chalker, Bertrand Collomb, Wim Dik, The Chairman of NV and Chairman of PLC have combined the Oscar Fanjul, Hilmar Kopper, David Simon and Jeroen van der Veer roles of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive.
It has been are nominated for re-election as Non-Executive Directors of NV our particular tradition that the most senior positions in the two and PLC at the 2005 AGMs.
All were elected as Non-Executive companies are shared and not concentrated in one person, Directors on 12 May 2004, having previously been Advisory although, as already indicated, this will change in 2005: and Directors, following the approval of the corporate governance changes proposed at the 2004 AGMs.
Their biographies are set Our Chairmen are currently members of the Nomination out on page 25.
Committee, although the Independent Non-Executive Directors are in the majority.
This gives the Committee the benefit of their Claudio Gonzalez, due to the pressure of his other commitments, knowledge of the management team.
This departs from retires as a Non-Executive Director at the 2005 AGMs.
His colleagues recommended practice in the Netherlands and the US.
The thank him for his advice over the past seven years.
changes we are making in 2005 will remove the Chief Executive from the Committee.
We plan to make Bertrand Collomb, currently our Senior Independent Director, Vice-Chairman of NV and PLC.
Wim Dik We will continue to keep our corporate governance arrangements will join the Audit Committee.
under constant review and not hesitate to respond appropriately to developments.
During 2004 Niall FitzGerald retired as Chairman of PLC and Vice-Chairman of NV, Charles Strauss retired as a Director Board changes and Senator George Mitchell retired as an Advisory Director.
The current Executive Directors, with their biographies, are shown Patrick Cescau became Chairman of PLC and Vice-Chairman on page 24.
They all held office throughout the year, with the of NV on 1 October 2004 and Kees van der Graaf succeeded exception of Kees van der Graaf, who was elected as a Director Patrick Cescau as Foods Director.
at the 2004 Annual General Meetings AGMs.
The changes to our Board structure described on page 6 result in a smaller Board.
Antony Burgmans, Patrick Cescau, Kees van der Graaf and Rudy Markham will be offering themselves for re-election at the 2005 AGMs.
Clive Butler, Keki Dadiseth and Andr van Heemstra will be retiring from the Boards.
Their colleagues wish to thank them for their contributions to Unilever over the past 34, 31 and 34 years respectively.
Ralph Kugler is nominated for election as an Executive Director of NV and PLC at the 2005 AGMs.
He is currently Business President Home and Personal Care Europe and his biography is set out in the Notices of the AGMs.
28 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Summary financial statement This summary financial statement is Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with a summary of information contained in the full annual accounts, the Directors Report and the Directors Unilevers financial statements, Report Remuneration Report of the Unilever Group for the year ended 31 December 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements of the Directors and Remuneration Report of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and as set out in the Unilever Annual Report the regulations made thereunder.
  LLP Accountants N. V. Chartered Accountants This Statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full Rotterdam, and Registered Auditors an understanding of the results and state of affairs of Unilever, and The Netherlands London, United Kingdom of its policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration, As auditors of Unilever N. V. As auditors of Unilever PLC as would be provided by the full report.
1 March 2005 Copies of the Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004, which are produced in both English and Dutch, can be accessed directly Unilever website or ordered through www.
com ourcompany The maintenance and integrity of the Unilever website are the investorcentre financial reports Shareholders may also elect to responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors receive the Annual Report and Accounts for all future years by does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, request to the appropriate share registrars.
Further details are the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may provided on page 37. have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
The auditors have issued unqualified audit reports on the full accounts and the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Legislation in the Netherlands and the UK governing the Report.
The United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 requires the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ auditors to report if the accounting records are not properly kept from legislation in other jurisdictions.
or if the required information and explanations are not received.
Their reports on the full accounts and the auditable part of the Reporting currency and exchange rates Remuneration Report contains no such statements.
All amounts in this SFS are at current rates of exchange.
The sterling and US dollar figures shown on pages 1, 9, 30 and 31 have been The following Summary Financial Statement SFS should be read provided for the convenience of users and do not form part of the together with the narrative set out earlier in this Annual Review audited accounts of the Unilever Group.
These figures have been which includes, to the extent applicable, any important future translated from euros using the following rates of exchange: developments or post-balance sheet events.
The balance sheet is translated at year-end rates and the profit and loss account and cash flow statement are translated at annual average rates.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review Accounting policies 2004 in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary and comply in all material respects with legislation in the Financial Statement within the Annual Review with the full annual Netherlands and the UK and with applicable accounting accounts, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration standards in the UK.
Report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the As a result of the operational and contractual arrangements in regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information place between NV and PLC and the internal participating interests contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for of these companies, NV and PLC and their group companies our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or constitute a single group under Netherlands and UK legislation material inconsistencies within the Summary Financial Statement.
for the purposes of preparing consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both NV and Basis of opinion PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
On the face of the We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The balance sheet on page 31, an analysis is given indicating how Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement issued consolidated capital and reserves are attributed to NV and PLC.
by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
PLC currently has negative consolidated capital and reserves.
This arises largely because of an accounting policy of writing off goodwill, directly to reserves, that arose on acquisitions in previous years and on transfers of businesses between the NV and PLC parts of the Group.
These write-offs do not have an impact on distributable reserves.
Equivalent to $1.43 2003: $1.91 per PLC American Depositary Receipt 5.6p of PLC ordinary capital.
2 Rounded to two decimal places.
Equivalent to $1.37 2003: $1.85 per PLC American Depositary Receipt 5.6p of PLC ordinary capital.
In 2004 we substantially Meetings on 10 and 11 May 2005 the declaration of final completed our assessment of the impact of the change to IFRS on dividends on the ordinary capital of NV and of PLC respectively our reported capital and reserves and on reported profit.
We have in respect of 2004 at the rates shown in the tables below.
The also completed the modification of our accounting and reporting dividends will be paid in accordance with the timetable set out systems to facilitate the changes and we have designed and run an on page 37.
IFRS training programme for those employees that are affected by the changes.
NV 2004 2003 Per 0.51 of ordinary capital The most important changes to our accounting policies are listed Interim 0.63 0.59 below.
These changes will also affect the 2004 comparative Final 1.26 1.15 information in the 2005 consolidated financial statements with the Total 1.89 1.74 exception of the changes in accounting for financial instruments and the presentation of assets held for sale, which will be applied PLC 2004 2003 prospectively from 1 January 2005.
Per 1.4p of ordinary capital Interim 6.33p 6.16p Under IFRS 3, from 1 January 2004 we will no longer apply Final 12.82p 11.92p systematic amortisation to goodwill and intangible assets with an Total 19.15p 18.08p indefinite life, but will instead test these assets for impairment on at least an annual basis.
The amortisation charge for all goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in 2004 was 1 040 million.
Dividends for US shareholders Under IAS 10, we will no longer recognise a liability in any period Per 0.51 of NV Per 5.6p of PLC for dividends which have been proposed but will not be approved ordinary capital ordinary capital 2004 2003 2004 2003 until after the balance sheet date.
The proposed final dividends for 2004 amount to 1.26 per 0.51 ordinary NV share and 12.82p Interim $0.80 $0.69 $0.47 $0.42 Final $1.61 $1.36 $0.95 $0.84 per 1.4p ordinary PLC share, a total liability of 1 215 million.
Total $2.41 $2.05 $1.42 $1.26 Under IAS 12, we will recognise certain additional deferred tax Proposed final dividends translated into US dollars at the rate of exchange ruling on balances arising on temporary differences between the tax base 9 February 2005 1 $1.28, 1 $1.86 rounded to two decimal places.
These and the accounting base of balance sheet items.
The most dividends will be paid using the exchange rates ruling on 10 May 2005 for NV and significant of these relates to intangible assets which were identified 11 May 2005 for PLC.
at the time of the Bestfoods acquisition, on which a deferred tax liability will be established via reserves.
Summary information under US GAAP in US$ unaudited 2004 2003 2002 Under IAS 38, we will capitalise and amortise purchased and internally developed software.
The value of purchased and Net income million 3 325 4 287 3 958 internally developed software as at 31 December 2004 amounted Combined net income per share Per 0.51 of ordinary capital 3.42 4.39 4.01 to 166 million.
Per 1.4p of ordinary capital 0.51 0.66 0.60 From 1 January 2005 onwards, we will present NV preference Combined diluted net income per share Per 0.51 of ordinary capital 3.28 4.27 3.89 share capital as a liability rather than as part of capital and reserves, Per 1.4p of ordinary capital 0.49 0.64 0.58 in accordance with IAS 32.
The carrying value of these preference shares as at 31 December 2004 was 1 502 million.
Also from this Capital and reserves million Attributable to NV 18 295 15 082 10 443 date we will recognise all derivative financial instruments on balance Attributable to PLC 846 1 752 1 906 sheet and will measure certain non-derivative financial assets at fair value with unrealised movements in fair value recognised directly within equity.
The Summary Financial Statement of Unilever has been prepared under accounting principles which differ in certain respects from Other areas where our current accounting policies differ from those generally accepted in the US.
IFRS and will therefore change include retirement benefits and biological assets tea bushes and oil palm trees.
In the case of Key differences arise from the treatment of goodwill, certain retirement benefits, the recent amendments to IAS 19 mean intangible assets, derivative financial instruments, pensions and that the impact on Unilever will be restricted to certain valuation the recognition of certain restructuring costs.
Further details of differences which are not expected to have a significant impact significant differences are given in the Unilever Annual Report on our reported numbers.
For further details of these and other reporting changes which may apply for 2005, please refer to our website at www.
com ourcompany investorcentre 32 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Summary remuneration report Executive Directors remuneration policy The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is proposed Dear Shareholder, to the Boards by the Remuneration Committee an independent committee consisting of Non-Executive Directors see page 25.
The year 2004 has been a year of change.
The Committee members are chosen for their broad experience, international outlook and independence.
The Committee meets In May the Advisory Directors were formally appointed as at least three times a year and recommends whatever adjustments Non-Executive Directors of NV and PLC.
to remuneration levels are necessary.
In 2004 the Committee met on six occasions.
The Committee is assisted by the Secretary of During the year there were also other changes to the Boards of NV the Remuneration Committee, JAA van der Bijl, Joint Secretary and PLC.
Charles Strauss, our US-based Executive Director, retired in of Unilever.
May and Niall FitzGerald, the Chairman of PLC, retired at the end of September.
Mr FitzGerald was succeeded by Patrick Cescau who The objective of Unilevers remuneration policy is to attract worldwas previously our Foods Director.
In May 2004 Kees van der Graaf class executives who can drive the business forward and achieve the was appointed as an Executive Director.
2004 was also the final year of Unilevers Path to Growth strategy and Levels of remuneration are reviewed annually in the light of company we are now entering a new challenging phase leading up to 2010. and market developments.
In view of these changes the Remuneration Committee decided The Committee does not formally retain remuneration consultants to initiate an in-depth review of the remuneration package for but seeks professional advice as it sees fit.
This involved a detailed benchmarking of advice was sought from an independent firm of human resource the package against comparable companies based in the UK and specialists, Towers Perrin.
This firm also provides general consultancy Continental Europe.
The result of this exercise showed that the advice to Unilever Group companies on employee rewards, pension, value of the current package is broadly in line with the market.
communications and other human resource matters.
However, the study also showed that part of the share-based elements of the package required amendment in order to bring It is the Remuneration Committees policy to link a significant them in line with developing market trends and to reinforce the proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration to a number of Unilever plans leading up to 2010.
As a result of this study we are key measures of Unilever Group performance.
Broadly, if the Group proposing to shareholders the introduction of a new Performance achieves its target level of performance, the variable elements of the Share Plan in 2005 which will replace the existing executive share remuneration package will account for about 60% of the Executive option plans and which will have performance conditions on Directors total remuneration.
The variable elements would, of vesting.
Full details of this proposal are included in the Notices course, reduce considerably if performance was below target.
to shareholders regarding the 2005 Annual General Meetings.
Changes are also proposed for 2005 regarding the annual bonus The key features of the remuneration package are: payable to Executive Directors revisions to the performance criteria as well as an increase in the bonus opportunity for the Group Base salary Whilst one overall salary framework applies to all Chief Executive Officer.
Executive Directors, separate market reference points are agreed each year for the Executive Directors based in the Netherlands, the The Committee also reviewed the pension arrangements for UK and the US.
As a result it has been decided that the current policy of including a proportion of the annual bonus of up to 20% Allowances and benefits in kind Executive Directors enjoy of base pay as part of pensionable earnings would be abandoned similar benefits to many other employees of the Unilever Group.
with immediate effect for new Executive Directors.
These include subsidised medical insurance, the use of company cars or cash in lieu and assistance with relocation costs.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to linking a major part of the Executive Directors pay to clearly defined levels of Annual bonus Currently this can range between 0% and 100% performance.
We are focused on achieving business goals and of base salary.
The Remuneration Committee sets stretching annual on rewarding outstanding performance accordingly.
targets based on a combination of corporate results and personal performance.
For 2004 the business results were disappointing and consequently the bonuses paid to the Executive Directors for that year were low.
For 2004 the corporate targets were a combination of the yearly increase in earnings per share BEIA and underlying sales growth We strive to ensure that the remuneration package for Executive of leading brands.
The earnings per share growth is determined by Directors continues to deliver the best possible value for shareholders.
reference to current rates of exchange.
Personal targets are based on agreed key objectives relative to the Executive Directors specific Bertrand Collomb, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee responsibilities.
David Simon Jeroen van der Veer The above corporate targets were linked to the Path to Growth strategy and the Committee is currently reviewing them with a view to introducing new targets from 2005 onwards which are aligned to the business plans for the period up to 2010.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 33 Summary financial statement continued At the end of each year the Remuneration Committee reviews the The Committee, however, has recently reviewed this latter results against the targets which had been set previously.
component of the pension arrangement and has decided to abandon the pensionability of bonuses for new Executive Directors.
Long-Term Incentive Plans These essentially comprise three elements: Executive Directors service contracts The Articles of Association of NV and PLC require that all Directors a Share Matching Plan A quarter of the annual bonus is paid in retire from office at every Annual General Meeting.
the form of NV and PLC shares.
Unilever, on its part, awards an equivalent number of matching shares which vest three years later The current Executive Directors are long-serving Unilever executives provided that the original bonus shares have been retained and who can reasonably expect, subject to satisfactory performance, to that the Executive Director has not resigned or been dismissed be employed by the Unilever Group until retirement.
The Executive Directors have service contracts with both NV and PLC The Remuneration Committee wishes to encourage Executive which provide for 12 months notice of termination on the part of Directors to hold shares in NV and PLC to further align the interests the Companies.
NV and PLC may, if they choose, pay to the Executive of the Directors with those of the shareholders in general.
The Directors a sum equal to 12 months salary in lieu of notice.
necessity to hold the bonus shares for a minimum of a three-year period reinforces this commitment on the part of the Executive Unilevers position relative to two broad-based equity indices Directors.
for the last five years Under the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 we b Executive Option Plans Options in NV and PLC shares are are required to show Unilevers relative share performance against a awarded annually subject to certain conditions, see below which broad-based equity index for the last five years.
The Remuneration are exercisable over a period of 3 to 10 years from date of grant.
Committee has decided to show Unilevers performance against two indices Euronext Amsterdam AEX Index and FTSE 100 Index as these The level of actual grants made in a particular year varies depending are the most generally used indices in the Netherlands and the UK on the percentage increase, over inflation, of the earnings per share where we have our principal listings.
BEIA at current rates of exchange for the financial year preceding the date of grant.
Unilever NV vs AEX Amsterdam Five years ended 31 December 2004 Unilever Options are granted at not less than the open market price of the AEX Index shares at date of grant.
Dec 1999 Dec 2000 Dec 2001 Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 140 It should be noted that the Remuneration Committee has proposed 120 that the executive share option component of the remuneration 100 package be replaced in 2005 by a new Global Performance Share 80 Plan.
Full details of this new Plan are contained in the Notices to 60 Shareholders regarding the 2005 AGMs.
If the proposal is approved by shareholders no further grants will be made to Executive Directors 40 under the existing Executive Share Option Plans apart from the 20 final grants of premium options to be made in 2005.
Instead, grants 0 will be made under the new Global Performance Share Plan from 2005 onwards.
Unilever PLC vs FTSE 100 Five years ended 31 December 2004 c TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan Under this plan conditional Unilever rights to shares in NV and PLC are awarded annually to Executive FTSE 100 Dec 1999 Dec 2000 Dec 2001 Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Directors and certain senior managers.
The awards vest three years 140 after grant but the number of shares to vest is dependent on the 120 total shareholder return of Unilever when compared with a peer group of 20 comparator companies.
No shares will vest if Unilever 100 is ranked at less than position 11 of the TSR ranking table over the 80 three-year period.
Between 25% and 200% will vest depending on 60 the position of Unilever in the top half of the ranking table.
40 This plan addresses our objective to achieve a business performance 20 above the median, and preferably within the top third, of our peer 0 group in terms of the creation of total shareholder return.
Pension arrangements Executive Directors are members of a final salary defined benefit arrangement which provides for a pension, from age 60, broadly equivalent to two-thirds of final pensionable pay.
For this purpose pensionable pay includes the average annual bonus element of the remuneration package paid in the last three years, subject to it not exceeding 20% of base salary.
34 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Executive Directors emoluments and income arising from long-term incentives 2004 Executive Directors total remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2004 including other income arising from long-term incentives were 21 329 000 2003: 11 530 000.
The equivalent totals in pounds sterling were 14 463 000 2003: 7 970 000.
The details for each Executive Director for 2004 are set out in the table below.
For convenience the amounts are shown both in euros and [in brackets] in pounds sterling.
2 Appointed Chairman of PLC with effect from 1 October 2004.
Allowances include relocation assistance totalling 383 054 [259 749] paid as a result of Mr Cescaus transfer from the Netherlands to the UK.
Previously he was Foods Director based in the Netherlands.
This relocation assistance is in line with the arrangements for other managers of Unilever who relocate from one country to another.
It mainly relates to the associated costs and other expenses relating to the purchase of a house in the UK together with removal costs and transfer allowance.
3 Remuneration shown above covers the period from his date of appointment as an Executive Director in May 2004.
4 Chairman of PLC until 30 September 2004.
Remuneration shown above covers the period to the date of cessation of his directorship on 30 September 2004 and in the Allowances and Other Payments column includes a payment of 1 806 150 [1 224 750], as compensation upon the termination of his employment with the Unilever Group.
This predominantly comprises a lump sum equivalent to the salary in lieu of the 12 months contractual notice to which he was entitled.
It also includes, as compensation for the loss of future employment benefits, a payment in respect of the estimated bonus for 2005 that would reasonably be expected to be paid had he remained in service.
For the purpose of his pension, which is due to commence on his sixtieth birthday in September 2005, he will be treated as if he had remained in employment until September 2005.
5 Remuneration shown above covers the period to the date of cessation of his directorship in May 2004.
In addition to these figures Mr Strauss received salary and benefits totalling 612 099 [415 065] as a result of him remaining an employee of Unilever United States, Inc. for the period 1 June to 31 December 2004.
His pension commences with effect from 1 January 2005.
The gains marked thus were not cashed-in by the Executive Directors shown.
Instead, the gains were either wholly retained in the form of shares in NV and PLC or the net amounts after payment of tax were retained in the form of shares in NV and PLC.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 35 Summary financial statement continued Share Matching Plan Non-Executive Directors are expected to serve for a minimum of In March 2004 matching shares equivalent in value to 25% of the three years.
If invited they are also expected to serve for a second annual bonus for 2003 were awarded on a conditional basis to period of three years.
Normally they would not serve for more each Executive Director.
These shares will vest in March 2007.
In than three terms of three years each.
However, continuation March 2005 further matching shares will be awarded equal to of a Non-Executive Directors engagement is conditional upon 25% of the bonus for 2004.
These shares will vest in March 2008. satisfactory performance and subject to their re-nomination and re-election as a Director of both NV and PLC each year.
Executive share option grants 2004 In March 2004 the normal levels of share options were granted The Non-Executive Directors receive fees and where appropriate to all Executive Directors apart from Mr FitzGerald who retired an Attendance Allowance from both NV and PLC.
The level of these during the year.
The number of options granted ranged between fees was adjusted in May 2004 to take into account their increased 7 500 and 12 000 NV shares and between 50 000 and 80 000 PLC responsibilities as Non-Executive Directors.
The current members shares per person.
receive no other remuneration in respect of their Non-Executive duties from either NV or PLC such as annual bonus, share-based In addition premium options were granted to each Executive Director incentives or pension provisions.
equivalent to 20% of the number of options granted in 1999.
The number of these premium options granted in 2004 ranged between Details of their fees for 2004 are set out below: 900 and 3 600 NV shares and between 6 000 and 24 000 PLC shares Fees Payable Fees Payable per person.
as an as a NonAdvisory Executive Total Fees Total Fees TSR Long-Term Incentive Plan conditional awards 2004 Director to Director from Attendance paid in paid in In March 2004 conditional rights to shares in NV and PLC were Name May 2004 May 2004 Allowance 2004 2003 awarded to all Executive Directors apart from Mr FitzGerald and B Collomb 18 333 67 393 85 726 55 000 Mr Strauss who retired during the year.
The value of the conditional [12 432] [45 699] [58 131] [38 016] rights was equivalent to 800 000 in the case of Mr Burgmans and Lord Brittan 17 205 44 928 62 133 50 637 500 000 for all other European-based Executive Directors.
For this period Unilever was ranked 13 out of [14 583] [14 583] [35 000] its peer group of comparator companies and therefore there will be For convenience the amounts are shown both in euros and [in brackets] in no vesting of this award in March 2005. pounds sterling 1 Senator Mitchell retired as an Advisory Director in May 2004.
For completeness, details Directors pensions 2004 of his Advisory Directors fees are shown.
He was not appointed a Non-Executive Director.
The total amount set aside by the Unilever Group during 2004 to provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for all current The Summary Financial Statement was approved by the Boards of Executive Directors was 3 430 618 2 326 302.
The total Directors on 1 March 2005. increase in transfer value during 2004 less individual contributions of accrued pensions for Executive Directors was 17 486 000 12 290 000.
Non-Executive Directors A Burgmans P Cescau The Non-Executive Directors joined the Boards of NV and PLC Chairmen of Unilever at the AGMs in May 2004 following approval by the shareholders.
Previously they were Advisory Directors and were not formally members of the Boards.
36 Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 Shareholder information Financial calendar Electronic communications Shareholders of Unilever PLC can elect not to receive paper copies of Annual General Meetings the Annual Review and other shareholder documents by registering NV 9.30 am Tuesday 10 May 2005 Rotterdam at www.
com shareholderservices Shareholders will then be PLC 11 am Wednesday 11 May 2005 London alerted by email to view these documents on our website.
Announcements of results NV shareholders participating in the shareholders communication channel will be able to appoint a proxy electronically to vote on First Quarter 6 May 2005 their behalf at the AGM in 2005.
First Half Year 4 August 2005 Third Quarter 3 November 2005 Final for Year provisional 9 February 2006 Quarterly results announcements These are available on our website at www.
com ourcompany Dividends on ordinary capital investorcentre in English, with figures in euros, sterling or US dollars, or in Dutch with figures in euros.
Final for 2004 announced 10 February 2005 and to be declared 10 May 2005 for NV and 11 May 2005 for PLC UK capital gains tax Ex-Dividend Record Payment The market value of PLC 1.4p ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 Date Date Date would have been 34.58p per share.
NV 12 May 2005 11 May 2005 13 June 2005 PLC 18 May 2005 20 May 2005 13 June 2005 Since 1982, PLC ordinary shares have been sub-divided on two NV New York Shares 12 May 2005 16 May 2005 13 June 2005 occasions and consolidated once.
Firstly, with effect on 26 June PLC ADRs 18 May 2005 20 May 2005 13 June 2005 1987, the 25p shares were split into five shares of 5p each.
Interim for 2005 to be announced 3 November 2005 Secondly, with effect on 13 October 1997, the 5p shares were split into four shares of 1.25p each.
Lastly, with effect on 10 May 1999, Ex-Dividend Record Payment the shares were consolidated by replacing every 112 shares of 1.25p Date Date Date each with 100 shares of 1.4p each.
NV 04 Nov 2005 03 Nov 2005 02 Dec 2005 PLC 16 Nov 2005 18 Nov 2005 02 Dec 2005 Listing details NV New York Shares 04 Nov 2005 08 Nov 2005 02 Dec 2005 PLC ADRs 16 Nov 2005 18 Nov 2005 02 Dec 2005 NV The shares or certificates depositary receipts of NV are listed on the stock exchanges in Amsterdam, New York, Frankfurt and Zrich.
Cumulative preference shares NV PLC The shares of PLC are listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American Depositary Receipts each evidencing four ordinary Announced Ex-Dividend Record Payment shares of 1.4p each, in New York.
As a consequence, the notional value of the shares reduced to 0.05.
PO Box 11063 A proposal will be put to the Annual General Meeting of NV on 10 May 2005 to cancel 1001 GB Amsterdam the preference shares upon repayment of the notional amount in accordance with NVs Telephone 31 0 20 522 2555 Articles of Association.
Upon adoption of the proposal to cancel these preference shares, it is intended that the payment of accrued dividends on the preference shares for the Telefax 31 0 20 522 2500 relevant part of the second period of 2005 will occur at the time of the repayment of Email registers@ant-trust.
nl the notional value of the cancelled cumulative preference shares.
UK Lloyds TSB Registrars Unilever website The Causeway Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website, www.
com Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA which has a wealth of information about the Unilever Group.
There is a section designed specifically for investors at www.
com Telephone 44 0 870 600 3977 ourcompany investorcentre Telefax 44 0 870 600 3980 Website www.
com shareholderservices USA JPMorgan Service Center PO Box 43013 Providence, RI 02940-3013 Toll free phone within US 888 502 6356 Designed and produced by Addison Corporate Marketing Board photography by Jaap van den Beukel Toll phone outside US 781 575 4328 Product photography by The Pack Shot Company Website www.
com Main photography by Igor Emmerich Printed by St Ives Westerham Press under ISO 14001 environmental accreditation.
All paper used in the production of this report is recyclable and bio degradable and contains 50% recovered fibre.
Unilever Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2004 37 Unilever N. V. Weena 455, PO Box 760 3000 DK Rotterdam The Netherlands T 31 0 10 217 4000 F 31 0 10 217 4798 Unilever PLC PO Box 68, Unilever House Blackfriars, London EC4P 4BQ United Kingdom T 44 0 20 7822 5252 F 44 0 20 7822 5951 Unilever PLC registered office Unilever PLC Port Sunlight Wirral Merseyside CH62 4ZD United Kingdom www.
