C11742 Unlvr AR eng 175-178. qxd 8 3 05 11:13 PM Page 177 Information about exchange controls affecting security holders Unilever N. V. Unilever PLC Under the Dutch External Financial Relations Act of None.
25 March 1994 the Minister of Finance is authorised to issue regulations relating to financial transactions concerning the movement of capital to or from third countries with respect to direct investments, establishment, the performing of financial services, the admission of negotiable instruments or goods with respect to which regulations have been issued under the Import and Export Act in the interest of the international legal system or an arrangement relevant thereto.
These regulations may contain a prohibition to perform any of the actions indicated in those regulations without a licence.
To date no regulations of this type have been issued which are applicable to Unilever N. V. The Central Bank of the Netherlands is authorised to issue regulations with respect to reporting obligations.
Pursuant to this authorisation it has issued the Reporting Obligations Balance of Payments 2003 the RR 2003.
Unilever N. V. has been appointed by the Central Bank as an institution subject to the reporting obligations and Unilever N. V. complies with such obligations.
Nature of the trading market The principal trading markets upon which Unilever shares are The high and low trading prices for the separate stock exchange listed are Euronext Amsterdam for NV ordinary shares and the listings are shown in the tables on the following page.
London Stock Exchange for PLC ordinary shares.
NV ordinary shares mainly trade in the form of Nedamtrust Certicates and NV and PLC are separate companies with separate stock almost all the shares are in bearer form.
PLC ordinary shares are exchange listings and different shareholders.
You cannot convert all in registered form.
or exchange the shares of one for shares of the other and the relative share prices on the various markets can, and do, In the United States, NV ordinary shares in registered form and uctuate.
This happens for various reasons, including changes in PLC American Depositary Receipts, each representing four PLC exchange rates.
However, over time the prices of NV and PLC ordinary shares, are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
shares do stay in close relation to each other, in particular JPMorgan Chase Bank NA acts for NV and PLC as issuer, transfer because of our equalisation arrangements.
agent and, in respect of the American Depositary Receipts, depositary.
If you are a shareholder of NV, you have an interest in a Netherlands legal entity, your dividends will be paid in euros The NV ordinary shares are also listed on the stock exchanges converted into US dollars if you have shares registered in the in Frankfurt and Zrich.
United States and you will be subject to Netherlands tax.
If you are a shareholder of PLC, your interest is in a United Kingdom There have not been any significant trading suspensions in the legal entity, your dividends will be paid in sterling converted into past three years.
US dollars if you have American Depositary Receipts and you will be subject to United Kingdom tax.
Nevertheless, the Equalisation At 25 February 2005 there were 7 542 registered holders of NV Agreement means that as a shareholder of either company you ordinary shares and 1 129 registered holders of PLC American effectively have an interest in the whole of Unilever.
You have Depositary Receipts in the United States.
We estimate that largely equal rights over our combined net profit and capital approximately 27% of NVs ordinary shares were held in the reserves as shown in the consolidated accounts.
See Taxation for United States approximately 23% in 2003, based on the US residents on pages 179 and 180 and Equalisation Agreement distribution of the 2004 interim dividend payments, while on pages 52 and 53. most holders of PLC ordinary shares are registered in the United Kingdom approximately 99% in both 2004 and 2003.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 177
