C11742 Unlvr AR eng 165-168. qxd 8 3 05 11:18 PM Page 165 Principal group companies and xed investments Unilever Group as at 31 December 2004 The companies listed below and on pages 166 to 168 are those which, % Europe continued Ownership Activity in the opinion of the Directors, principally affect the amount of profit France and assets shown in the Unilever Group accounts.
The Directors Amora Maille Socit Industrielle d F consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation 99 Bestfoods France Socit Industrielle S. A. d F to Unilever as a whole.
Cogesal-Miko d F Full information as required by Articles 379 and 414 of Book 2 of the Fralib Sourcing Unit d F Civil Code in the Netherlands has been led by Unilever N. V. with the 99 Lever Faberg France d P Commercial Registry in Rotterdam.
Unilever Bestfoods France d F Unilever France d H Particulars of PLC group companies and other significant holdings as required by the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 will be Germany annexed to the next Annual Return of Unilever PLC.
Langnese-Iglo GmbH d F Lever Faberg Deutschland GmbH d P The main activities of the companies listed below are indicated Maizena  according to the following key: 1 GmbH & Co. OHG dF Monda Beteiligungs GmbH d F Holding companies H 1 Monda IPR GmbH & Co. OHG dF Foods F Monda Vermgensverwaltungs Home and Personal Care P 1 GmbH & Co. OHG dF Other Operations O 1 Pfanni GmbH & Co. OHG Stavenhagen dF Unless otherwise indicated, the companies are incorporated and Pfanni Werke  principally operate in the countries under which they are shown.
1 GmbH & Co. OHG dF 1 PW Vermietungs GmbH & Co. KG dF The aggregate percentage of equity capital directly or indirectly held by 1 UBG Vermietungs GmbH & Co. OHG dH NV or PLC is shown in the margin, except where it is 100%.
All these Unilever Bestfoods Deutschland GmbH d F percentages are rounded down to the nearest whole number.
d FP Latvia Belgium Unilever Baltic LLC a FP Unilever Belgium BVBA SPRL Unibel d FP Lithuania Bulgaria Unilever Lietuva UAB a FP Unilever Bulgaria E. O. O. D. a FP The Netherlands Croatia Iglo Mora Groep B. V. a F Unilever Croatia d. o. o. a FP Lever Faberg Nederland B. V. a P Mixhold B. V. d H Czech Republic Unilever Bestfoods Nederland B. V. d F v Unilever CR, spol.
s r. o. a FP 2 Unilever N. V. H Unilever Nederland B. V. a H Denmark Unilever Bestfoods A S a F Norway Unilever Danmark A S a FP Unilever Norge AS a F Estonia Poland Unilever Eesti OU a FP 99 Unilever Polska S. A. d FP Finland 1 Suomen Unilever Oy a FP Due to the inclusion of the partnerships in the consolidated group accounts of Unilever, para 264 b of the German trade law grants an exemption from the duty to prepare individual statutory financial statements and management reports in accordance with the requirements for limited liability companies and to have these audited.
2 See Basis of consolidation on page 96.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 165
