C11742 Unlvr AR eng 090-098. qxd 9 3 05 1:27 AM Page 97 Accounting information and policies continued The effects of exchange rate changes during the year on net Interests in joint ventures and associated companies are stated assets at the beginning of the year are recorded as a movement in the consolidated balance sheet at the Groups share of their in profit retained, as is the difference between profit of the aggregate assets and liabilities.
year retained at average rates of exchange and at year-end rates of exchange.
For these purposes net assets include loans Other xed investments are stated at cost less any amounts between group companies and related foreign exchange written off to reect a permanent impairment.
Any impairment contracts, if any, for which settlement is neither planned nor likely is charged to the profit and loss account as it arises.
to occur in the foreseeable future.
Current assets Goodwill and intangible assets Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable No value is attributed to internally generated intangible assets.
Cost is mainly average cost, and comprises direct costs and, Goodwill being the difference between the fair value of where appropriate, a proportion of production overheads.
consideration paid for new interests in group companies, joint ventures and associated companies and the fair value of the Debtors are stated after deducting adequate provision for Groups share of their net assets at the date of acquisition and doubtful debts.
identiable intangible assets purchased after 1 January 1998 are capitalised and amortised in the profit and loss account over the Current investments are liquid funds temporarily invested and period of their expected useful lives, up to a maximum of are stated at their realisable value.
The difference between this 20 years.
Periods in excess of five years are used only where the and their original cost is taken to interest in the profit and Directors are satisfied that the life of these assets will clearly loss account.
Goodwill and intangible assets purchased prior to 1 January 1998 were written off in the year of acquisition Retirement benets as a movement in profits retained.
With effect from 1 January 2003, Unilever has accounted for pensions and similar benets under the United Kingdom Financial On disposal of a business acquired prior to 1 January 1998, Reporting Standard 17 Retirement benets FRS 17.
The purchased goodwill written off on acquisition is reinstated operating and nancing costs of dened benefit plans are in arriving at the profit or loss on disposal.
recognised separately in the profit and loss account: service costs are systematically spread over the service lives of employees, and The treatment of goodwill and intangible assets under US GAAP nancing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Variations from expected costs, arising from the experience of the plans or changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised Goodwill and intangible assets are subject to review for immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
impairment in accordance with United Kingdom Financial The costs of individual events such as past service benefit Reporting Standard 11 Impairment of Fixed Assets and Goodwill enhancements, settlements and curtailments are recognised FRS 11 and United States Statement of Financial Accounting immediately in the profit and loss account.
The liabilities and, Standards 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets SFAS 142. where applicable, the assets of dened benefit plans are Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account as recognised at fair value in the balance sheet.
The charges to the it arises.
profit and loss account for dened contribution plans are the company contributions payable and the assets of such plans are Tangible xed assets not included in the Group balance sheet.
Tangible xed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at percentages of Deferred taxation cost based on the expected average useful lives of the assets.
Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all significant Estimated useful lives by major class of assets are as follows: timing differences arising from the recognition of items for taxation purposes in different periods from those in which they Freehold buildings 40 years are included in the Group accounts.
Full provision is made at the no depreciation on freehold land rates of tax prevailing at the year end unless future rates have Leasehold land Life of lease been enacted or substantively enacted.
Deferred tax assets and Leasehold buildings 40 years liabilities have not been discounted.
Plant and equipment 220 years Motor vehicles 36 years Provision is made for taxation which will become payable if or life of lease if less than 40 years retained profits of group companies and joint ventures are distributed to the parent companies only to the extent that Tangible xed assets are subject to review for impairment we are committed to such distributions.
in accordance with FRS 11 and United States SFAS 144 Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets Provisions SFAS 144.
Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive account as it arises.
obligation, as a result of a past event, exists at the balance sheet date and where the amount of the obligation can be Fixed investments reasonably estimated.
Joint ventures are undertakings in which the Group has a longterm participating interest and which are jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other parties.
Associated companies are undertakings in which the Group has a participating interest and exercises significant inuence.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 97
