C11742 Unlvr AR eng 001-023. qxd 9 3 05 4:40 AM Page 18 Financial review continued Impairment reviews are performed following the guidance in UK Under IFRS 3, from 1 January 2004 we will no longer apply Financial Reporting Standard 11, United States SFAS 142 and systematic amortisation to goodwill and intangible assets with an SFAS 144.
Such reviews are performed by comparing the carrying indefinite life, but will instead test these assets for impairment on value of the asset concerned to a valuation derived from at least an annual basis.
The amortisation charge for all goodwill discounted future cash ows.
significant assumptions, such as and indefinite lived intangible assets in 2004 was 1 040 million.
long-term growth rates and discount rates, are made in preparing these forecast cash ows: although these are believed to be Under IAS 10 we will no longer recognise a liability in any period appropriate, changes in these assumptions could change the for dividends which have been proposed but will not be approved outcomes of the impairment reviews.
until after the balance sheet date.
The proposed final dividends for 2004 amount to 1.26 per 0.51 ordinary NV share and The most significant balances of goodwill and intangible assets 12.82p per 1.4p ordinary PLC share, a total liability of 1 215 are those arising from the purchases of Bestfoods and Slim Fast.
We have reviewed the balances related to the Bestfoods acquisition 13.3 billion, by considering actual and planned Under IAS 12 we will recognise certain additional deferred tax growth rates of Bestfoods brands and the synergy savings arising balances arising on temporary differences between the tax base from its integration.
No impairment loss has been identied.
and the accounting base of balance sheet items.
The most significant of these relates to intangible assets which were We have also reviewed the balances related to Slim Fast in light of identied at the time of the Bestfoods acquisition, on which a the significant decline in the weight-management category in deferred tax liability will be established via reserves.
North America that took place during the second half of 2004.
This is expected to continue to impact market volumes in 2005.
Under IAS 38 we will capitalise and amortise purchased and The results of the review indicated that a goodwill impairment internally developed software.
The value of purchased and charge of 591 million was necessary.
Our assessment is based on internally developed software as at 31 December 2004 amounted a number of important assumptions regarding the future to 166 million.
performance of the Slim Fast business.
In particular, the business is assumed to return to growth by 2007, and thereafter to From 1 January 2005 onwards we will present NV preference achieve levels of growth and margin that are consistent with share capital as a liability rather than as a part of capital and typical North American foods businesses.
The review was based reserves, in accordance with IAS 32.
The carrying value of these on a 10 year discounted cash ow methodology using a pre-tax preference shares as at 31 December 2004 was 1 502 million.
Also from this date we will recognise all derivative financial instruments on balance sheet and will measure certain nonDeferred tax derivative financial assets at fair value with unrealised movements Full provision is made for deferred taxation, as required under UK in fair value recognised directly within equity.
Financial Reporting Standard 19, at the rates of tax prevailing at the year end unless future rates have been enacted, as detailed Other areas where our current accounting policies differ from on page 97.
Deferred tax assets are regularly reviewed for IFRS and will therefore change include retirement benets and recoverability, and a valuation allowance is established to the biological assets tea bushes and oil palm trees.
In the case of extent that recoverability is not considered likely.
retirement benets, the recent amendments to IAS 19 mean that the impact on Unilever will be restricted to certain valuation International Financial Reporting Standards differences which are not expected to have a significant impact Unilever is adopting International Financial Reporting Standards on our reported numbers.
IFRS with effect from 1 January 2005.
In 2004 we substantially completed our assessment of the impact of the change to IFRS on For further details of these and other reporting changes which our reported capital and reserves and on reported profit.
We have may apply for 2005, please refer to our website at also completed the modication of our accounting and reporting www.
systems to facilitate the changes and we have designed and run an IFRS training programme for those employees that are affected by the changes.
The most important changes to our accounting policies are listed below.
These changes will also affect the 2004 comparative information in the 2005 consolidated financial statements with the exception of the changes in accounting for financial instruments and the presentation of assets held for sale, which will be applied prospectively from 1 January 2005.
18 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004
