C11742 Unlvr AR eng 090-098. qxd 9 3 05 1:26 AM Page 95 Auditors report United States Report of the independent registered public accounting In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to rms to the shareholders of Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of the Unilever Group, Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC at of the Unilever Group, Unilever N. V. and Unilever PLC as of 31 December 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations 31 December 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated and their cash ows for each of the three years in the period profit and loss accounts, cash ow statements and statements ended 31 December 2004, in conformity with applicable of total recognised gains and losses for each of the three years in Netherlands and United Kingdom law and United Kingdom the period ended December 31, 2004.
These financial statements accounting standards.
are the responsibility of the companies management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial Applicable Netherlands and United Kingdom law and United statements based on our audits.
Kingdom accounting standards vary in certain significant respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of of America.
Information relating to the nature and effect of such the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
differences is presented in the determination of net profit and Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to capital and reserves as shown on pages 154 and 155. obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes  Accountants N. V. examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and Rotterdam, The Netherlands disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes As auditors of Unilever N. V. assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a  LLP reasonable basis for our opinion.
London, United Kingdom As auditors of Unilever PLC 1 March 2005 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 95
