C11742 Unlvr AR eng 149-153. qxd 9 3 05 12:08 AM Page 149 Five-year record Unilever Group The following are denitions of measures used within the five-year record and elsewhere within this report: Return on invested capital profit after tax but excluding net interest on net debt excluding joint ventures and associates interest and amortisation or impairment of goodwill and intangible assets excluding joint ventures and associates amortisation and write-downs of goodwill and intangible assets taken in connection with business disposals both net of tax, divided by average invested capital for the year, all expressed at current exchange rates.
Invested capital is the sum of tangible xed assets and xed investments, working capital stocks, debtors and trade and other creditors due within one year, goodwill and intangible assets at gross book value and cumulative goodwill written off directly to reserves under an earlier accounting policy.
The average of five quarter-end positions is taken.
Ungeared free cash ow Cash ow from group operating activities, less capital expenditure and financial investment and less a tax charge adjusted to reect an ungeared position, all expressed at current exchange rates.
Net profit margin Net profit expressed as a percentage of group turnover.
Net interest cover profit on ordinary activities excluding associates before net interest on net debt and taxation divided by net interest on net debt excluding associates.
Adjusted net interest cover based on Earnings on ordinary activities excluding associates and non-cash share option costs before adjusted EBITDA net interest on net debt, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and impairment divided by net interest on net debt excluding associates.
Net operating assets The total of: goodwill and intangible assets of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates purchased after 1 January 1998 tangible xed assets stocks debtors excluding deferred taxation less: trade and other creditors excluding taxation and dividend creditors provisions for liabilities and charges excluding deferred taxation, pensions balances and deferred purchase consideration.
Ratio of earnings to xed charges Earnings consist of net profit excluding joint ventures and associates increased by xed charges and income taxes.
Fixed charges consist of interest payable on debt and a portion of lease costs determined to be representative of interest.
This ratio takes no account of interest receivable although Unilevers treasury operations involve both borrowing and depositing funds.
Funds from operations after interest and Cash from operating activities including dividends from joint ventures after net interest tax over lease-adjusted net debt paid and tax paid, expressed as a percentage of the lease-adjusted net debt.
Lease-adjusted net debt is calculated by adding to the net debt five times the operating lease costs.
Weighted average cost of capital The cost of equity multiplied by the market capitalisation, plus the after taxation interest cost of debt multiplied by the market value of the net debt, divided by the sum of the market values of debt and equity.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2004 149
