Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 128 Additional Shareholder Information Financial calendar 2004 05 Telephone share dealing Annual General Meeting see below 27 July 2004 A telephone share dealing service with the Companys Registrars is available for holders of ordinary shares.
The service is available from 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, Monday Interim Results announcement 16 November 2004 to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 44 0 870 703 0084.
Preliminary announcement of full year results 24 May 2005 Detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling 44 0 870 702 0198.
Dividends Full details on the dividend amount per share or ADS can be found on page 39.
Set Postal share dealing out below is information relevant to the final dividend for the financial year ended A postal share dealing service is available for holders of ordinary shares with 1,000 31 March 2004. shares or less who want to either increase their holding or sell their entire holding.
Ex-dividend date 2 June 2004 Further information about this service can be obtained from the Companys Registrars Record date 4 June 2004 on 44 0 870 702 0198.
DRIP election date 16 July 2004 Dividend payment date 6 August 2004 Payment date for both ordinary shares and ADSs.
Registrars and transfer office Dividend Payment Methods The Companys ordinary share register is maintained by: Holders of ordinary shares can: Computershare Investor Services PLC have cash dividends paid direct to a bank or building society account: or P. O.
Box 82 The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road have cash dividends paid in the form of a cheque: or Bristol BS99 7NH elect to use the cash dividends to purchase more Vodafone shares under the England Dividend Reinvestment Plan see below.
Telephone: 44 0 870 702 0198 If a holder of ordinary shares does decide to receive cash dividends, it is Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland should contact: recommended that this is paid directly to the shareholders bank or building society account via BACS or EFTS.
This avoids the risk of cheques being lost in the post and Computershare Investor Services Ireland Limited means the dividend will be in the shareholders account on the dividend payment P. O.
The shareholder will be sent a tax voucher confirming the amount of dividend Dublin 18 and the account into which it has been paid.
Ireland Please contact the Companys Registrars for further details.
Telephone: 0818 300 999 Holders of ADSs can: Any queries about the administration of holdings of ordinary shares, such as change have cash dividends paid direct to a bank account: or of address, change of ownership or dividend payments, should be directed to the Companys Registrars at the relevant address or telephone number immediately have cash dividends paid by cheque: or above.
Holders of ordinary shares may also check details of their shareholding, subject elect to have the dividends reinvested to purchase additional Vodafone ADSs see to passing an identity check, on the Registrars website at www.
com below for contact details.
The Depositary Bank for the Companys ADR programme is: Dividend reinvestment The Bank of New York The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which allows holders of ordinary Investor Relations Dept, P. O.
Box 11258 shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire additional Church St. Station shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf by the Plan Administrator New York, NY 10286-1258 through a low cost dealing arrangement.
Further details can be obtained from the Plan USA Administrator on 44 0 870 702 0198.
Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 Toll free For ADS holders, The Bank of New York maintains a Global BuyDIRECT Plan for the Company, which is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts, with a ADS holders should address any queries or instructions regarding their holdings to The dividend reinvestment facility.
For additional information, please call toll-free on Bank of New York at the above address or telephone number.
ADS holders can also, 1 800 233 5601, or write to: subject to passing an identity check, view their account balances and transaction history, sell shares and request certificates from their Global BuyDIRECT Plan at The Bank of New York www.
com Shareholder Relations Department Global BuyDIRECT P. O.
Box 1958 Online Shareholder Services Newark www.
com investor New Jersey 07101-1958 Register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
Benefits to USA shareholders and the Company include faster receipt of communications such For calls from outside the US, call 1 610 312 5315. as annual reports, and cost and time savings for Vodafone.
Electronic shareholder Please note that this number is not toll-free.
communications are also more environmentally friendly.
Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 129 View a webcast of the AGM of the Company on 27 July 2004 and up to one Mackintosh Foundation, 46 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 3HN telephone: month after this date.
View and or download the Annual Report and the Annual Review & Summary Financial Statement 2004.
The Unclaimed Assets Register Check the current share price.
The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register, which provides a search facility for financial assets which may have been forgotten and which donates a Calculate the value of your holding and look up the historic share price on a proportion of its public search fees to a group of three UK charities Age Concern, particular date.
For further information, contact The Unclaimed Assets Register, Calculate dividend payments.
Leconfield House, Curzon Street, London W1J 5JA telephone: 44 0 870 241 Use interactive tools to value your holding and chart Vodafone ordinary share 1713, or visit its website at www.
co. uk price changes against indices.
Shareholders and other interested parties can also receive Company press releases, Share Price History including London Stock Exchange announcements, by registering for Vodafone News Upon flotation of the Company on 11 October 1988, the ordinary shares were valued via the Companys website at www.
On 16 September 1991, when the Company was finally demerged, for Registering for Vodafone News will enable you to: UK taxpayers the base cost of Racal Electronics Plc shares was apportioned between the Company and Racal Electronics Plc for Capital Gains Tax purposes in the ratio of be alerted by free SMS as soon as news breaks: 80.036% and 19.964% respectively.
Opening share prices on 16 September 1991 download the latest news direct to your mobile: were 332p for each Vodafone share and 223p for each Racal share.
have news automatically e-mailed to you: and On 21 July 1994, the Company effected a bonus issue of two new shares for every receive Vodafone View.
Vodafone View is part of Vodafone News.
The Company one then held and on 30 September 1999 it effected a bonus issue of four new uses this service to provide further clarification on any issue that arises in respect shares for every one held at that date.
The flotation and demerger share prices, of which a London Stock Exchange announcement or press release is not therefore, may be restated as 11.333p and 22.133p, respectively.
required but on which the Company has a view.
The share price on 24 May 2004 was 135.50 pence.
Annual General Meeting The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported high and low The twentieth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Queen middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange, ii the Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1 on reported high and low sales prices of ordinary shares on the Frankfurt Stock 27 July 2004 at 10.45 a. m. Exchange, and iii the reported high and low sales prices of ADSs on the NYSE.
The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the business to be conducted at the The Companys ordinary shares were traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange from Meeting, is being circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report or the Annual 3 April 2000 until 23 March 2004 and, therefore, information has not been provided Review & Summary Financial Statement.
for periods outside these dates.
The AGM will be transmitted via a live webcast and can be viewed at the Companys Five year data on an annual basis website www.
com agm on the day of the meeting and for one month London Stock Frankfurt Stock Exchange Exchange NYSE after the end of the meeting.
Pounds per Euros per Dollars To find out more about the AGM and how to view the webcast, visit ordinary share ordinary share per ADS www.
Through 2003 2004 1.50 1.12 2.22 1.59 27.88 18.10 ShareGift, shareholders who have only a very small number of shares which might be considered uneconomic to sell are able to donate them to charity.
Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed on to a wide range of UK charities.
Donating shares to charity gives rise neither to a gain nor loss for UK Capital Gains purposes and UK taxpayers may also be able to claim income tax relief on such gifts of shares.
ShareGift transfer forms specifically for the Companys shareholders are available from the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC and, even if the share certificate has been lost or destroyed, the gift can be completed.
The service is generally free.
However, there may be an indemnity charge for a lost or destroyed share certificate where the value of the shares exceeds 100.
Further details about ShareGift can be obtained from its website at www.
1 First Quarter 1.42 1.29 25.68 23.38 Note: Memorandum and Articles of Association and 1 covering period up to 24 May 2004.
Applicable English law Six month data on a monthly basis The following description summarises certain provisions of the Companys London Stock Frankfurt Stock Exchange Exchange NYSE Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
This summary is Pounds per Euros per Dollars qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 1985 of Great Britain the ordinary share ordinary share per ADS Companies Act, as amended, and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Financial Year High Low High Low High Low Association.
Information on where shareholders can obtain copies of the November 2003 1.39 1.21 2.02 1.78 23.79 20.55 Memorandum and Articles of Association is provided under Documents on Display.
December 2003 1.40 1.32 2.03 1.84 25.15 23.41 All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution January 2004 1.50 1.36 2.22 1.96 27.88 25.04 of capital may be required by the Company from the holders of such shares.
The 2 May 2004 1.41 1.32 25.68 23.92 Company is registered in England & Wales under the name Vodafone Group Public Limited Company, with the registration number 1833679.
The Companys objects are Note: set out in the fourth clause of its Memorandum of Association and cover a wide range 1 High and low share prices for the Frankfurt Stock Exchange only reported to 23 March 2004, the date of of activities, including to carry on the business of a holding company, to carry on delisting from this exchange.
business as dealers in, operators, manufacturers, repairers, designers, developers, 2 High and low share prices for May 2004 only reported until 24 May 2004. importers and exporters of electronic, electrical, mechanical and aeronautical The current authorised share capital comprises 78,000,000,000 ordinary shares of equipment of all types as well as to carry on all other businesses necessary to attain $0.10 each and 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each.
The Memorandum of Association grants the Company a broad range of powers to effect its objects.
Markets Directors Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London Stock Exchange and, The Companys Articles of Association provide for a board of directors, consisting of in the form of ADSs, on the New York Stock Exchange.
In addition, the Companys not fewer than three directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of the ordinary shares were listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange until 23 March 2004.
ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on the New York Stock Under the Companys Articles of Association, a director cannot vote in respect of any Exchange under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued by The proposal in which the director, or any person connected with the director, has a Bank of New York, as Depositary, under a Deposit Agreement, dated as of 12 October material interest other than by virtue of the directors interest in the Companys shares 1988, as amended and restated as of 26 December 1989, as further amended and or other securities.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions a restated as of 16 September 1991 and as further amended and restated as of 30 giving the director or a third party any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of June 1999, between the Company, the Depositary and the holders from time to time obligations or liabilities incurred at the request of or for the benefit of the Company, b of ADRs issued thereunder.
giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to the director or a third party in respect of ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct The Bank of New York obligations of the Company for which the director has assumed responsibility under an on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares represented indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities of the Company in which by their ADRs.
See Memorandum and Articles of Association and Applicable English the director participates as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting Law Rights attaching to the Companys shares Voting rights below.
of such shares or securities, d concerning any other company in which the director Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 131 together with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer or is otherwise Voting rights interested, provided that the director together with any connected person is not The Companys Articles of Association provide that voting on Substantive Resolutions interested in 1% or more of any class of the companys equity share capital or the i. e. any resolution which is not a Procedural Resolution at a general meeting shall be voting rights available to its shareholders, e relating to the arrangement of any decided on a poll.
On a poll, each shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in employee benefit in which the director will share equally with other employees and f person or by proxy has one vote for every share held.
Procedural Resolutions such as relating to any insurance that the Company purchases or renews for its directors or a resolution to adjourn a General Meeting or a resolution on the choice of Chairman of any group of people, including directors.
a General Meeting shall be decided on a show of hands, where each shareholder who The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow is present at the meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares held, money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all liabilities and unless a poll is demanded.
In addition, the Articles of Association allow persons obligations of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to appointed as proxies of shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings to vote on a 1.5 times the aggregate of the Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the show of hands, as well as to vote on a poll and attend and speak at general meetings.
manner prescribed in the Articles of Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary Holders of the Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Under English law, two shareholders present in person constitute a quorum for In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and best practice in UK purposes of a general meeting, unless a companys articles of association specify corporate governance, a third of all the directors retire at each Annual General otherwise.
The Companys Articles of Association do not specify otherwise, except that Meeting.
The specific retiring directors are those last elected or re-elected at or before the shareholders do not need to be present in person, and may instead be present by the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year.
No person is disqualified from being a director or is required to vacate that office by Under English law, shareholders of a public company such as the Company are not reason of age.
If at a general meeting a director who is 70 or more years of age is permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
proposed for election or re-election, that directors age must be set out in the notice of Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak and vote on a poll the meeting.
or a show of hands at any general meeting of the Companys shareholders by the Directors are not required to hold any shares of the Company as a qualification to act Depositarys appointment of them as corporate representatives with respect to the as a director.
underlying ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively, holders of ADSs are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the Depositary or its Finally, and in accordance with best practice in the UK for corporate governance, nominee, who will vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADSs in accordance with compensation awarded to executive directors is decided by a remuneration committee their instructions.
consisting exclusively of non-executive directors.
In addition, as required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, the Board Liquidation rights has, since 2003, prepared a report to shareholders on the directors remuneration In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of all liabilities and which complies with the Regulations see pages 54 to 63.
The report is also subject deductions in accordance with English law, the holders of the Companys 7% to a shareholder vote.
cumulative fixed rate shares would be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on such shares, together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders of the Rights attaching to the Companys shares Companys ordinary shares.
The holders of the fixed rate shares do not have any other Dividends rights right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may by ordinary resolution declare Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by Under Section 80 of the Companies Act, directors are, with certain exceptions, unable the directors.
The directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid to allot relevant securities without the authority of the shareholders in a general other than out of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares will be meeting.
Relevant securities as defined in the Companies Act include the Companys announced in pounds sterling.
Holders of ordinary shares with a registered address in ordinary shares or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary shares.
In a Euro-zone country defined, for this purpose, as a country that has adopted the Euro addition, Section 89 of the Companies Act imposes further restrictions on the issue of as its national currency will receive their dividends in Euro, exchanged from pounds equity securities as defined in the Companies Act, which include the Companys sterling at a rate fixed by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association.
ordinary shares and securities convertible into ordinary shares which are, or are to Dividends for ADS holders represented by ordinary shares held by the Depositary will be, paid up wholly in cash and not first offered to existing shareholders.
The be paid to the Depositary in US dollars, exchanged from pounds sterling at a rate fixed Companys Articles of Association allow shareholders to authorise directors for a by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, and the Depositary will period up to five years to allot a relevant securities generally up to an amount fixed distribute them to the ADS holders.
by the shareholders and b equity securities for cash other than in connection with a If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the later of the resolution passed rights issue up to an amount specified by the shareholders and free of the restriction at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the resolution of the directors providing in Section 89.
In accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the amount of for payment of that dividend, the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some relevant securities to be fixed by shareholders is normally restricted to one third of the other way for the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend existing issued ordinary share capital, and the amount of equity securities to be issued remains unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either declaring that for cash other than in connection with a rights issue is restricted to 5% of the existing dividend or providing for payment of that dividend, it will be forfeited and belong to the issued ordinary share capital.
Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares There are no provisions in the Articles whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Companys shares are required to make Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 132 Additional Shareholder Information continued disclosure of their ownership percentage, although such requirements exist under the An annual general meeting and an extraordinary general meeting called for the Companies Act.
passing of a special resolution need to be called by not less than twenty-one days notice in writing and all other extraordinary general meetings by not less than fourteen The basic disclosure requirement under Sections 198 to 211 of the Companies Act days notice in writing.
The directors may determine that persons entitled to receive imposes upon a person interested in the shares of the Company a statutory obligation notices of meetings are those persons entered on the register at the close of business to provide written notification to the Company, including certain details as set out in on a day determined by the directors but not later than twenty-one days before the the Companies Act, where: date the relevant notice is sent.
The notice may also specify the record date, which a he acquires or becomes aware that he has acquired or ceases to have or shall not be more than forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
becomes aware that he has ceased to have an interest in shares comprising any Shareholders must provide the Company with an address or so far as the Companies class of the Companys issued and voting share capital: and Act allows an electronic address or fax number in the United Kingdom in order to be b as a result, EITHER he obtains, or ceases to have: entitled to receive notices of shareholders meetings and other notices and documents.
In certain circumstances, the Company may give notices to shareholders i a material interest in 3%, or more: or by advertisement in newspapers in the United Kingdom.
Holders of the Companys ii an aggregate interest whether material or not in 10%, or more of the ADSs are entitled to receive notices under the terms of the Deposit Agreement relating Companys voting capital: or to the ADSs.
iii the percentage of his interest in the Companys voting capital remains above Under the Companys Articles of Association, the annual general meeting of the relevant level and changes by a whole percentage point.
shareholders must be held within fifteen months of the preceding annual general A material interest means, broadly, any beneficial interest including those of a meeting.
spouse or a child or a step-child under the age of 18, those of a company which is Variation of rights accustomed to act in accordance with the relevant persons instructions or in which If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different classes of shares, one third or more of the votes are controlled by such person and certain other the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the interests set out in the Companies Act other than those of an investment manager or Companies Act, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three fourths in an operator of a unit trust recognised scheme collective investment scheme opennominal value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary ended investment company.
resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
Sections 204 to 206 of the Companies Act set out particular rules of disclosure where At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of Association two or more parties each a concert party have entered into an agreement to relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to be acquire interests in shares of a public company, and the agreement imposes the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy obligations restrictions on any concert party with respect to the use, retention or not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such disposal of the shares in the company and an acquisition of shares by a concert party quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the pursuant to the agreement has taken place.
class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any person present in person or Under Section 212 of the Companies Act, the Company may by notice in writing by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder will have one vote per share require a person that the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
was during the preceding three years interested in the Companys shares to indicate Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new whether or not that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in sharing in profits Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in the Companies Act.
or assets of the Company or by a redemption or repurchase of the shares by the Sections 324 to 329 of the Companies Act further deal with the disclosure by persons Company.
and certain members of their families of interests in shares or debentures of the companies of which they are directors and certain associated companies.
Limitations on voting and shareholding There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys Articles of There are additional disclosure obligations under Rule 3 of the Substantial Acquisitions Association on the right of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or vote the Rules where a person acquires 15% or more of the voting rights of a listed company Companys shares other than those limitations that would generally apply to all of the or when an acquisition increases his holding of shares or rights over shares so as to shareholders.
increase his voting rights beyond that level by a whole percentage point.
Notification in this case should be to the Company, the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers and the UK Listing Authority through one of its approved regulatory information services no later Documents on Display than 12 noon on the business day following the date of the acquisition.
The Company is subject to the information requirements of the US Securities and The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also contains strict disclosure requirements Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance with these on all parties to a takeover with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or requirements, the Company files its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other related offeree company and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer documents with the SEC.
These documents may be inspected at the SECs public period.
reference rooms located at 450 Fifth Street, NW Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the US by calling the General meetings and notices SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some of the Companys SEC filings, including Annual general meetings are held at such times and place as determined by the all those filed on or after 4 November 2002, are available on the SECs website at directors of the Company.
The directors may also, when they think fit, convene an www.
Shareholders can also obtain copies of the Companys Memorandum extraordinary general meeting of the Company.
Extraordinary general meetings may and Articles of Association from the Companys registered office.
also be convened on requisition as provided by the Companies Act.
Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 133 federal income tax and UK tax purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be Material Contracts treated as the owner of the shares in the Company represented by those ADSs.
At the date of this Annual Report, the Group is not party to any contracts that are Generally, exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, will not be subject to considered material to the Groups results or operations, except for its $10.4 billion US federal income tax or to UK tax, other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax credit facilities which are discussed under Operating and Financial Review and see the section on these taxes below.
Prospects Liquidity and Cash Resources.
Taxation of dividends UK Taxation Exchange Controls Under current UK tax law, no withholding tax will be deducted from dividends paid by There are no UK government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict or affect the the Company.
export or import of capital, including but not limited to, foreign exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the Groups A shareholder that is a company resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom operations, except as otherwise set out under Taxation.
will not be taxable on a dividend it receives from the Company.
A shareholder in the Company who is an individual resident for UK tax purposes in the United Kingdom is entitled, in calculating their liability to UK income tax, to a tax credit on cash dividends Taxation paid on shares in the Company or ADSs, and the tax credit is equal to one-ninth of the As this is a complex area, investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the cash dividend.
US federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning and Under the Old Treaty, a US holder was entitled to a tax credit from the UK Inland disposing of shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in particular Revenue equal to the amount of the tax credit available to a shareholder resident in whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Old Treaty and or the New Treaty.
the United Kingdom i. e. one-ninth of the dividend received but the amount of the This section describes for a US holder as defined below, in general terms, the dividend plus the amount of the tax credit were then subject to withholding in an principal US federal income tax and UK tax consequences of owning shares or ADSs in amount equal to the amount of the tax credit.
A US holder, therefore, did not, in fact, the Company as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does not, receive any repayment from the UK Inland Revenue in respect of a dividend from the however, cover the tax consequences for members of certain classes of holders Company, although assuming the US holder was not resident in the United Kingdom subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10 per cent or for UK tax purposes, there was no further UK tax to pay in respect of that dividend.
more of the Companys voting stock.
Under the New Treaty, a US holder is not entitled to a tax credit from the UK Inland A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal income tax Revenue in the manner described above and dividends received by the US holder from purposes: the Company are not subject to any withholding by the United Kingdom under the New Treaty or otherwise.
i a citizen or resident of the United States, ii a US domestic corporation, US Federal Income Taxation iii an estate the income of which is subject to US federal income tax regardless A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross amount of any of its source, or dividend paid by the Company out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate iv a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts US holder in tax years beginning after 31 December 2002 and before 1 January 2009 administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum substantial decisions of the trust.
tax rate of 15%, provided that the holder meets certain holding period requirements.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its Dividends paid by the Company with respect to the shares or ADSs will generally be legislative history, existing and proposed regulations thereunder, published rulings and qualified dividend income.
court decisions, and on the tax laws of the United Kingdom, all as currently in effect, A US holder that is eligible and elects for the benefits of the Old Treaty may include in as well as on the Double Taxation Convention between the United States and the the gross amount of income the UK tax withheld from the dividend payment pursuant United Kingdom entered into force in 1980 the Old Treaty and the Double Taxation to the Old Treaty as described in UK Taxation.
Subject to certain limitations, the UK Convention between the United States and the United Kingdom that entered into force tax withheld in accordance with the Old Treaty and effectively paid over to the UK in March 2003 the New Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a Inland Revenue will be creditable against the US holders US federal income tax retroactive basis.
liability, provided the US holder is eligible for the benefits of the Old Treaty and has Generally, the New Treaty is effective in respect of taxes withheld at source if an properly filed Internal Revenue Form 8833.
Special rules apply in determining the amount is paid or credited on or after 1 May 2003.
Other provisions of the New Treaty, foreign tax credit limitation with respect to dividends that are subject to the maximum however, took effect for UK purposes for individuals on 6 April 2003 1 April 2003 for 15% tax rate.
UK companies and took effect for US purposes on 1 January 2004.
The rules of the Under the New Treaty, a US holder is not entitled to a UK tax credit payment, but is Old Treaty remained applicable until these effective dates.
However, a taxpayer may also not subject to a UK withholding tax.
The US holder includes in gross income for elect to have the Old Treaty apply in its entirety for a period of twelve months after the US federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend actually received applicable effective dates of the New Treaty.
from the Company, and the receipt of a dividend does not entitle the US holder to a This section is further based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and foreign tax credit.
assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement In either case, dividends must be included in income when the US holder, in the case will be performed in accordance with its terms.
of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives For purposes of the Old Treaty and the New Treaty and the US-UK double taxation the dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, and for US allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received from other US Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 134 Additional Shareholder Information continued corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States and will Additional tax considerations generally be passive income or financial services income, which is treated UK inheritance tax separately from other types of income for the purposes of computing any allowable An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Estate Tax foreign tax credit.
Convention and is not a UK national will not be subject to UK inheritance tax in In the case of shares, the amount of the dividend distribution to be included in income respect of the Companys shares or ADSs on the individuals death or on a transfer of will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made, determined at the the shares or ADSs during the individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the date of the dividend distribution, regardless federal gift or estate tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss property of a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for the resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the performance of independent personal services.
Where the shares or ADSs have been dividend payment is to be included in income to the date the payment is converted placed in trust by a settlor, they may be subject to UK inheritance tax unless, when the into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss.
Generally, the gain or loss trust was created, the settlor was domiciled in the United States and was not a UK will be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit national.
Where the shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US limitation purposes.
federal gift or estate tax, the Estate and Gift Tax Convention generally provides a credit against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
Taxation of capital gains UK taxation UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on the disposal Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument of the Companys shares or ADSs if the US holder is: transferring shares in the Company to the Custodian of the Depositary at the rate of 1.5% on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such i a citizen of the United States resident or ordinarily resident for UK tax shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the price purposes in the United Kingdom, or value of the shares, could also be payable in these circumstances, and on issue to ii a US domestic corporation resident in the United Kingdom by reason of being such a person, but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability centrally managed and controlled in the United Kingdom, or is paid.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, any tax or duty iii a citizen of the United States or a corporation that carries on a trade, payable on deposits of shares by the Depositary or the Custodian of the Depositary profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency or, will be charged to the party to whom ADSs are delivered against such deposits.
in respect of companies for accounting periods beginning on or after No stamp duty will be payable on any transfer of ADSs of the Company, provided that 1 January 2003, through a permanent establishment and that has used the the ADSs and any separate instrument of transfer are executed and retained at all shares or ADSs for the purposes of such trade, profession or vocation or has times outside the United Kingdom.
used, held or acquired the shares or ADSs for the purposes of such branch or A transfer of shares in the Company in registered form will attract ad valorem stamp agency or permanent establishment.
duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is no However, subject to applicable limitations and eligibility to the provisions of the Old charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
On a transfer from nominee to beneficial Treaty, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit against their US federal income owner the nominee having at all times held the shares on behalf of the transferee tax liability for the amount of UK capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable under which no beneficial interest passes and which is neither a sale nor in gains as the case may be which is paid in respect of such gain.
contemplation of a sale, a fixed 5.00 stamp duty will be payable.
Under the New Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of the shares or ADSs are SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer shares in the generally subject to tax only in the country of residence of the relevant holder as Company in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the consideration for determined under both the laws of the United Kingdom and the United States and as the transfer, but is repayable if, within six years of the date of the agreement, an required by the terms of the New Treaty.
However, individuals who are residents of instrument transferring the shares is executed or, if the SDRT has not been paid, the either the United Kingdom or the United States and who have been residents of the liability to pay the tax but not necessarily interest and penalties would be cancelled.
other jurisdiction the US or the UK, as the case may be at any time during the six However, an agreement to transfer the ADSs of the Company will not give rise to years immediately preceding the relevant disposal of shares or ADSs may be subject SDRT.
to tax with respect to capital gains arising from the dispositions of the shares or ADSs not only in the country of which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition, but also in that other country.
US federal income taxation A US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of the Companys shares or ADSs will recognise a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares or ADSs.
Generally, a capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognised on or after 6 May 2003 and before 1 January 2009 is taxed at a maximum rate of 15%, provided the holder has a holding period of more than one year previously the maximum rate was 20%.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses is subject to limitations.
Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 135 Contact Details Registered Office Vodafone House The Connection Newbury Berkshire RG14 2FN England Telephone: 44 0 1635 33251 Fax: 44 0 1635 45713 Group Corporate Affairs Tim Brown Group Corporate Affairs Director Telephone: 44 0 1635 673310 Fax: 44 0 1635 682890 Investor Relations Melissa Stimpson Darren Jones Telephone: 44 0 1635 673310 Media Relations Bobby Leach Ben Padovan Telephone: 44 0 1635 673310 Corporate Social Responsibility Charlotte Grezo Director of Corporate Responsibility Telephone: 44 0 1635 33251 Fax: 44 0 1635 674478 E-mail: responsibility@vodafone.
com responsibility Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 136 Form 20-F Cross Reference Guide Certain of the information in this document that is referenced in the following table is included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2004 filed with the SEC the 2004 Form 20-F. No other information in this document is included in the 2004 Form 20-F or incorporated by reference into any filings by the Company under the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Please see Documents on Display for information on how to access the 2004 Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
The 2004 Form 20-F has not been approved or disapproved by the SEC nor has the SEC passed judgement upon the adequacy or accuracy of the 2004 Form 20-F.
Item Form 20-F caption Location in this document Page 1 Identity of Directors, Senior Management and Advisers Not applicable 2 Offer Statistics and Expected Timetable Not applicable 3 Key Information 3A Selected Financial Data Financial Highlights 2 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Foreign currency translation 24 3B Capitalisation and indebtedness Not applicable 3C Reasons for the offer and use of proceeds Not applicable 3D Risk Factors Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings Risk Factors 21 4 Information on the Company 4A History and Development of the Company Business Overview History and Development of the Company 16 4B Business Overview Business Overview 7 4C Organisational Structure Note 34 Principal subsidiary undertakings, associated undertakings and investments 111 4D Property, Plants and Equipment Business Overview Licences and network infrastructure 9 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Balance sheet 39 Corporate Social Responsibility and Environmental Issues Environmental Issues 65 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects 5A Operating Results Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Operating Results 28 5B Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Liquidity and Capital Resources 40 5C Research and Development, Patents and Licences, etc.
Business Overview Global Services Research and Development 13 5D Trend Information Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Trend Information and Outlook 44 5E Off-balance sheet arrangements Note 26 Commitments 101 Note 27 Contingent liabilities 102 5F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Liquidity and Capital Resources Contractural Obligations 43 5G Safe harbor Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements 20 6 Directors, Senior Management and Employees 6A Directors and Senior Management The Board of Directors and the Group Executive Committee 46 6B Compensation Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration 54 6C Board Practices Corporate Governance 50 Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration 54 6D Employees Note 31 Employees 105 6E Share Ownership Boards Report to Shareholders on Directors Remuneration Directors interests in the shares of the Company 60 Note 22 Called up share capital 96 7 Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions 7A Major Shareholders Directors Report Major shareholders 49 7B Related Party Transactions Note 35 Related party transactions 113 7C Interests of experts and counsel Not applicable 8 Financial Information 8A Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information Report of Independent Auditors 67 Consolidated Financial Statements 68 Risk Factors and Legal Proceedings Legal Proceedings 22 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Equity Dividends 39 8B Significant Changes Note 33 Subsequent events 110 9 The Offer and Listing 9A Offer and listing details Additional Shareholder Information Share Price History 129 9B Plan of distribution Not applicable 9C Markets Additional Shareholder Information Markets 130 9D Selling shareholders Not applicable 9E Dilution Not applicable 9F Expenses of the issue Not applicable Annual Report 2004 Vodafone Group Plc 137 Item Form 20-F caption Location in this document Page 10 Additional Information 10A Share capital Not applicable 10B Memorandum and articles of association Additional Information for Shareholders Memorandum and Articles of Association and Applicable English law 130 10C Material contracts Additional Information for Shareholders Material Contracts 133 10D Exchange controls Additional Information for Shareholders Exchange Controls 133 10E Taxation Additional Information for Shareholders Taxation 133 10F Dividends and paying agents Not applicable 10G Statement by experts Not applicable 10H Documents on Display Additional Information for Shareholders Documents on Display 132 10I Subsidiary information Not applicable 11 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Operating and Financial Review and Prospects Quantitative and About Market Risk Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 44 12 Description of Securities Other than Equity Securities Not applicable 13 Defaults, Dividend Arrearages and Delinquencies Not applicable 14 Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds Not applicable 15 Controls and Procedures Corporate Governance 50 16 16A Audit committee financial expert Corporate Governance Committees of the Board 51 16B Code of Ethics Corporate Governance Introduction 50 16C Principal Accountant Fees and Services Note 5 Operating loss 79 16D Exemptions from the Listing Standards for Audit Committees Not applicable 16E Purchase of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers Note 23 Reserves 98 17 Financial Statements Not applicable 18 Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements 68 19 Exhibits Filed with the SEC Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2004 138 Notes We want to keep the environmental impact of the documents in our Annual Report package to a minimum.
We have therefore given careful consideration to the production process.
The paper used was manufactured in the UK at mills with ISO4001 accreditation.
It is 75% recycled from fide-inked post consumer waste.
This document was printed by Butler and Tanner, a company accredited to ISO4001, using inks which are vegetable based.
By undertaking all printing, binding and mailing within a 24 mile radius, further environmental savings in transport and energy are achieved.
All the steps we have taken demonstrate our commitment to making sustainable choices.
Designed and produced by Barrett Howe Plc Vodafone Group Plc Vodafone House The Connection Newbury Berkshire RG14 2FN England Registered in England No.
com Printed in the United Kingdom
