Notes to the Financial Statements 70 1 Accounting policies Introduction Properties A summary of the principal accounting policies is set out below.
Investment properties, including freehold and long leasehold properties, The policies have been applied consistently, in all material respects are independently valued each year on an open market basis.
Any throughout the current and the previous year save as set out below.
surplus or deficit arising is transferred to the revaluation reserve, unless The Group has applied FRS 17 Retirement Benefits for the first time a deficit is expected to be permanent, in which case it is charged to the resulting in the recognition in the balance sheet of the net assets of the profit and loss account.
The profit on disposal is based on book value.
Groups defined benefit pension scheme, calculated on the basis set out In accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 19 in the employee costs section.
The comparatives have been restated.
no amortisation or depreciation is provided in respect of freehold or long The Group has adopted early Financial Reporting Standard 20 leasehold properties.
The directors consider that this accounting policy, Share-based Payment FRS 20, which was published in April 2004, and which represents a departure from the statutory accounting rules, Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts is necessary to provide a true and fair view.
The financial effect of UITF 38.
No restatement of the prior period is necessary as the effect the departure from these rules cannot reasonably be quantified, as in respect of the current and prior years is not considered material.
depreciation or amortisation is only one of the many factors reflected in the annual valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been Accounting basis shown cannot be separately identified or quantified.
Where properties The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable United held for investment are appropriated to trading stock, they are transferred Kingdom accounting standards and under the historical cost convention at market value.
as modified by the revaluation of investment properties and fixed Development properties are included in investment properties and asset investments.
stated at cost, except where the open market value falls below cost, when they are revalued to the lower amount.
The revaluation deficit Consolidation is transferred to the revaluation reserve unless it represents a clear The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the parent and consumption of economic benefits, in which case it is charged to the all subsidiaries.
The cost of properties in the course of developSubsidiaries or joint ventures acquired or disposed of during the ment includes attributable interest and other outgoings having regard year are included from the date of acquisition or to the date of disposal to the development potential of the property.
Interest is calculated on and accounted for under the acquisition or gross equity method.
In order the development expenditure by reference to specific borrowings where to give a true and fair view the goodwill in relation to the consolidation of relevant and otherwise on the average rate applicable to short-term former joint ventures has been calculated in accordance with FRS 2 see loans.
Interest is not capitalised where no development activity is taking note 13.
Accounting practices of subsidiaries and joint ventures which place.
A property ceases to be treated as a development on practical differ from Group accounting policies are adjusted on consolidation.
Negative goodwill attributable to discounts received in the purchase Trading properties are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable price of corporate acquisitions for contingencies, such as tax on value.
Disposals are recognised on completion: profits and losses unrealised gains on revalued property, is shown separately on the arising are recognised through the profit and loss account.
If properties balance sheet and released to the profit and loss account when the held for trading are appropriated to investment, they are transferred at related property is sold.
Joint ventures and other investments Debt instruments and interest rate derivatives Joint ventures are accounted for under the gross equity method, whereby Debt instruments are stated at their net proceeds on issue.
Issue costs the Groups balance sheet discloses the Groups share of the gross are amortised to the profit and loss account over the life of the instrument assets and gross liabilities of its joint ventures.
The Groups share of joint and are included in interest payable.
venture operating profit, net interest payable and taxation are included at Amounts payable or receivable under interest rate derivatives are the relevant point in the Group profit and loss account.
matched with the interest payable on the debt which the derivatives Other fixed asset investments are stated at market value when listed hedge.
In the course of the Groups investment and financing activity and at directors valuation when unlisted.
Any surplus or deficit arising underlying debt may be retired or redeemed such that an interest rate on revaluation is taken to the revaluation reserve, unless a deficit is derivative becomes surplus.
In these circumstances the derivative expected to be permanent, in which case it is charged to the profit and is marked to market or closed out.
Any deficit surplus arising is loss account.
charged credited to the profit and loss account and included in net Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net interest payable.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost or directors valuation.
Parent company In accordance with Section 230 3 of the Companies Act 1985 a separate profit and loss account for the parent is not presented.
Notes to the Financial Statements The British Land Company PLC 1 Accounting policies continued Taxation the prevailing market rent, the first break option, or the end of the lease Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the term.
On new leases with rent free periods, rental income is allocated current rate.
evenly over the period from the date of lease commencement to the On disposal of an investment property the element of tax relating earlier of the first rent review to the prevailing market rate and the lease to the profit in the year is charged to the profit and loss account and end date.
71 the element relating to earlier revaluation surpluses is included in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Employee costs Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from timing differences Defined benefit pension scheme assets are measured using fair values: between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and their recognition in a tax computation.
and discounted at the rate of return of a high quality corporate bond of Deferred tax is provided in respect of all timing differences thathave equivalent term to the scheme liabilities.
The net surplus or deficit is originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date that may give rise recognised in full in the consolidated balance sheets.
to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Deferred tax is not The current service cost and gains and losses on settlement and recognised when fixed assets are revalued unless, by the balance sheet curtailments are charged to operating profit.
Past service costs are date, there is a binding agreement to sell the revalued assets and the recognised in the profit and loss account if the benefits have vested or, gain or loss expected to arise on sale has been recognised in the if they have not vested, over the period until vesting occurs.
cost and the expected return on assets are included as other finance Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
A deferred tax income or interest payable.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely Contributions to the Groups defined contribution schemes are than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future expensed on the basis of the contracted annual contribution.
reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Share-based incentives Net rental income In accordance with FRS 20 the fair value of equity-settled share-based Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis.
Rent increases payments to employees is determined at the date of grant and is arising from rent reviews are taken into account when such reviews have expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the been settled with tenants.
Where a lease incentive does not enhance Groups estimate of shares or options that will eventually vest.
In the property, it is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period from the case of options granted, fair value is measured by a Black-Scholes the date of lease commencement to the earlier of the first rent review to pricing model.
Further details are set out in note 9.
2 Restatement of comparatives The adoption of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits has required full consolidation of the fair value of assets and liabilities arising from retirement benefit obligations.
As a result of this change in accounting policy, the comparatives have been restated as follows: Profit and Loss Account Balance Sheet Other Prepayments Pension Operating finance costs Profit after and accrued asset Shareholders profit income Taxation taxation income liability funds Consolidated results m m m m m m m Year ended 31 March 2004 Excluding effect of FRS 17 422.5 11.8 175.2 40.2 4,679.3 Adoption of FRS 17 0.7 0.3 2.7 3.7 10.0 0.1 9.9 As stated 421.8 0.3 14.5 171.5 30.2 0.1 4,669.4 Year ended 31 March 2003 As previously stated 380.4 33.1 139.3 18.6 4,129.3 Adoption of FRS 17 1.6 0.3 0.6 1.3 6.0 6.0 As restated 382.0 0.3 33.7 140.6 18.6 6.0 4,123.3 The effect of the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits on the parent company results is exactly the same as the effect on the consolidated results.
Parent company results excluding the effect of FRS 17 were as follows: profit after taxation 279.5m 2003: 116.1m : shareholders funds 1,993.7m 2003: 1,780.9m.
The British Land Company PLC Notes to the Financial Statements
