Sponsorship British Land is strongly committed to investing in the future through The companys commitment to the future also includes being a 95 education, the arts and sport.
Particular emphasis is given to helping corporate partner of the London Business School and publishing an young people improve their prospects and the quality of life.
award-winning series of Educational Broadsheets for schools.
British Land supports the Investment Property Forums Educational Trust, This year over 70,000 schoolchildren from more than 2,000 schools Barnardos, the British Red Cross, Mencap and the NSPCC.
are taking part in The British Land UK Chess Challenge.
The The British Museum, The Royal Ballet School, the Royal Opera tournament is designed for all standards of play and all ages from 18 House, the Royal Academy of Music, the English National Opera, the down to 6 years old.
Schools build their reputations, while children National Theatre, the Wigmore Hall, Sadlers Wells and the Regents benefit from constructive enjoyment as they develop qualities of Park Open Air Theatre have also received support.
The company is a concentration, forward planning, resilience and flexibility.
founding exhibition patron of the Royal Academy of Arts.
British Land British Land has sponsored Barnardos National Chess Week, which has sponsored The Royal Parks new corporate membership scheme.
encourages children and others throughout the country to play chess in British Land has been sole sponsor of The British Land National Ski National Chess Week, raising 1 for Barnardos for each game played.
Championships for 26 consecutive years and also sponsors The British British Land is sponsor of Capital Kids Cricket which encourages and Land Alpine Ski Team.
The company is presenting sponsor of the 2004 enables children, within inner city London, to participate.
Super Series Squash Finals at Broadgate.
The British Land British Open British Land is sole sponsor of Boucher: Selective Visions at the and Amateur Championships for Real Tennis are now in their eleventh year.
Wallace Collection from September 2004 to April 2005.
This will display an unrivalled range of paintings by Franois Boucher besides related eighteenth century French pictures.
British Land encourages its management teams to be sensitive to local issues in communities in which we operate and to sponsor causes which help regeneration of the local community.
British Land has sponsored The Source Centre for Learning and Development at Meadowhall.
It offers a broad range of training with the emphasis on retailing and IT.
Partners in Leadership is a highly successful project organised by Business in the Community.
Over 600 business partners are matched to head teachers throughout the country, providing a valuable sounding board as well as a link between the school and the business community.
British Land sponsors the Partners in Leadership Newsletter and encourages and supports its own employees involvement as business partners.
British Land was Sole Sponsor of the Thomas Gainsborough exhibition at Tate Britain, London and subsequently at Washington D. C. and Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
The West Euston Partnership involves Camden Council, the Health Authority, the police, community associations, tenants, the church, the Crown Estate, British Land and other groups with a brief to unite the diverse Camden community.
British Land contributes to the Partnerships work and supports community regeneration in the area.
British Land climbed to 35th from 49th place in the Guardian FTSE 100 Giving List with a contribution totalling 1.3 million in 2003.
The British Land Company PLC Sponsorship
