Glossary of Terms Annualised net rents are gross rents plus, where rent reviews are outstanding, Net rental income is the rental income receivable in the period after payment 96 any increases to estimated rental value as determined by the Groups external of ground rents and net property outgoings.
Net rental income will differ valuers, less any ground rents payable under head leases.
from annualised net rents and passing rent due to the effects of income from backdated rent reviews, UITF 28 operating lease incentives and net property Capital allowances deferred tax provision.
In accordance with FRS 19, outgoings.
full provision has been made for the deferred tax arising on the benefit of capital allowances claimed to date.
However, in the Groups experience the Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of liabilities in respect of capital allowances provided are unlikely to crystallise in an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash practice and are therefore excluded when arriving at adjusted NAV per share consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups external and adjusted EPS.
Contingent tax liability is the unprovided further taxation which might In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report become payable if the Groups investments and properties were sold valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, at their balance sheet values including the valuation surplus on trading including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
and development properties net of any tax losses which have not been Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under head recognised in the balance sheet.
This is stated after taking account of leases.
the FRS 19 capital allowances deferred tax provision.
Reversion is the increase in rent estimated by the Groups external valuers, Development construction cost is the total cost of construction of a where the passing rent is below the current estimated rental value.
The project to completion, excluding site values and finance costs.
increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of vacant space and expiry of rent Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation divided by the weighted free periods.
average number of shares in issue during the period.
Diluted and Adjusted EPS Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise per share are derived as set out under NAV.
to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
Estimated rental value ERV is the Groups external valuers opinion as Securitisation is a financing technique where the income stream of an asset to the open market rent, which on the date of valuation, could reasonably is used to service the interest and principal repayments on the relevant be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield Total return Return on shareholders equity is the growth in adjusted diluted and represents the return a property will produce based upon the timing of the net asset value per share plus dividends per share for the period expressed as income received.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent yields as a percentage of adjusted diluted net asset value per share at the beginning of determined by the Groups external valuers assume rent received annually in the period.
arrears and on gross values including prospective purchasers costs.
UITF 28 operating lease incentives debtors.
Under accounting rules Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of adjusted net assets.
the balance sheet value of lease incentives given to tenants is deducted from Group is The British Land Company PLC and its subsidiaries and excludes joint property valuation and shown as a debtor.
The incentive is amortised through ventures.
the profit and loss account.
Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio expressed as Underlying profit before tax is the profit on ordinary activities before taxation a percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding development properties.
after excluding trading profits, profits on disposal of fixed assets, one-off gains relating to other investments and exceptional items.
Interest cover is the number of times Group net interest payable is covered by Group net rental income.
Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the portfolio, excluding IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a Company that produces development properties.
an independent benchmark of property returns.
Each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by Mortgage ratio is the ratio of Group net debt to the aggregate value of the the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group debt Groups properties including the surplus of the open market value over the in issue at the period end.
book value of both development and trading properties, investments in joint ventures and other investments.
Weighted average interest rate is the Group loan interest and derivative costs per annum at the period end, divided by total Group debt in issue at the period Net assets per share NAV are shareholders funds, plus the surplus of the end.
open market value over the book value of both development and trading properties, divided by the number of shares in issue at the period end.
Weighted average lease term is the average lease term remaining to expiry across the portfolio weighted by rental income.
This is also disclosed assuming Diluted NAV per share includes the effect of those shares potentially issuable all break clauses are exercised at the earliest date, as stated.
Excludes shortunder convertible bonds or employee share schemes.
term licences and residential leases.
Adjusted NAV per share excludes the capital allowances deferred tax provision.
Glossary of Terms The British Land Company PLC The Illustrators Quentin Blake 1932- Ronald Searle 1920- The first-ever Childrens Laureate and one of the bestNigel Molesworth The Curse of St Custards was the loved of all modern illustrators, Quentin Blake will be progeny of a collaboration between illustrator Ronald forever remembered for his work with Roald Dahl Searle and former prep school teacher Geoffrey Willans.
Revolting Rhymes, The Enormous Crocodile, The BFG and Inky fingered, quietly subversive and an atrocious speller, Head Office and Registered Office others.
The holder of a Cambridge degree in English as Molesworth was an anti-hero every child could identify 10 Cornwall Terrace well as a Professorship at the Royal College of Art, Quentin with.
The four great Molesworth books Down With Skool!, Regents Park Blake is the most literary of artists: Mr Magnolia is just one How to be Topp, Back in the Jug Agane and Whizz for book among many he has published under his own name.
Atomms remain perennial bestsellers half a century London NW1 4QP His scratchily energetic style is instantly recognisable.
after they were first published.
Telephone 44 0 207 486 4466 Reproduced with kind permission of the artist Reproduced with kind permission of the artist and the Sayle Literary Agency Fax 44 0 207 935 5552 Paul Cox 1957- E H Shepherd 1879-1976 www.
com Widely imitated but never quite equalled, the watercolour Ernest Howard Shepherd was already well established as info@britishland.
com paintings of Paul Cox convey an infectious energy and a member of the Punch coterie when he was introduced a huge sense of fun.
Everyone, it seems, is enjoying to the writer A A Milne, precipitating When We Were Very themselves in his bright, vivacious and undeniably English Young 1924, Winnie the Pooh 1926 and The House world.
A familiar contributor to magazines as diverse as at Pooh Corner 1928.
Later Shepherd illustrated the Designed by: CDT Design the Sunday supplements and the Gentlemans Quarterly, definitive 1931 edition of Kenneth Grahames The Wind in Copywriting by: Tim Shackleton Paul Cox has illustrated memorable editions of The Wind the Willows.
He continued his parallel career as a political in the Willows and Three Men in a Boat.
cartoonist until being unceremoniously sacked by Malcolm Typesetting by: Perivan Financial Reproduced with kind permission of The Chris Beetles Gallery Muggeridge when he became editor of Punch in 1953.
Printed by: Fulmar Colour Reproduced with kind permission of the Curtis Brown Group Ltd William Heath Robinson 1872-1944 One of the few illustrators whose name has become a selfJohn Tenniel 1820-1914 The paper used in this Annual Report is made from perpetuating adjective, Heath Robinson is best known for Partially blind the result of a fencing accident Tenniel pulp where for every tree felled 3-4 are planted.
The mill his bizarre mechanical contraptions and other visual satires understudied the great John Leech at Punch before recycles the water and millbroke or offcuts and rejects on the industrial age.
In his early years, however, he had becoming its principal cartoonist in 1864, producing over used in the papermaking process.
been the illustrator of Rabelais, Shakespeare and Edgar two thousand cartoons in fifty years.
He retired at the age Allan Poe.
His perverse logic and inexhaustible imagination of 80.
He was also an illustrator of great renown: Lewis RECYCLABLE have helped secure him a permanent place in the nations Carroll Charles Dodgson arranged their collaboration affections as the Gadget King.
on the Alice books through a mutual acquaintance.
Their Reproduced with kind permission of Pollinger Ltd personal relationship, however, was tempestuous: Tenniel declared Carroll was impossible and refused all entreaties Gerald Hoffnung 1925-1959 to work on later books such as The Hunting of the Snark.
A musician of note as well as a first-rate cartoonist, Reproduced with kind permission of The Chris Beetles Gallery Hoffnung was born in Berlin and raised in England.
His first cartoon was published while he was still at school Norman Thelwell 1923- and later he freelanced for Punch and other magazines.
At Punch I was a sort of unofficial country cartoonist, doing He had the outsiders perceptive take on British life: on funny drawings that involved birds, cattle, pigs and poultry.
entering a railway carriage, he solemnly advised visitors One day I did a pony drawing and it was like striking a from foreign parts, it is customary to shake hands with sensitive nerve.
telephoned the editor and asked for more.
Suddenly I had Reproduced with kind permission of The Chris Beetles Gallery a fan mail.
So the editor told me to do a two-page spread on ponies.
I thought Id already squeezed Arthur Rackham 1867-1939 the subject dry.
I looked at the white drawing block and Rackhams career as an illustrator spanned five decades wondered what on earth to do.
In the end I dreamed up and encompassed a wide variety of influences.
His style, some more horsey ideas and people went into raptures.
however, remained vividly individualistic, an intensely The Thelwell pony was born linear approach in which colour was muted and emotion Reproduced with kind permission of Momentum Licensing downplayed.
There was grotesquerie in his work as well as Alice in Wonderland, he illustrated a memorable edition of Grimms Fairy Tales and also a tremendous respect for and understanding of his source material, seen at its best in his 1910 interpretation of Wagners Ring of the Niebelung.
Reproduced with kind permission of The Bridgeman Art Gallery Back cover Illustration adapted with the kind permission of Pollinger Ltd Wind of change.
Heavy turbulence often hits the City.
When its blowing half a gale, and the markets shift on their moorings, thats when you realise the value of a little financial stability William Heath Robinson, Tis An Ill Wind 1929
