Accounting Policies Basis of accounts The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
There have been no changes to the Groups accounting policies during the year other than the adoption in full of the Financial Reporting Standard 17 FRS 17 Retirements Benefits.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results of subsidiary undertakings and associates acquired or disposed of in the year, including businesses acquired as major asset purchases, are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
The net assets of subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are incorporated at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
In the Companys accounts, investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Only dividends received and receivable are credited to the Companys profit and loss account.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Associates In the Group accounts, investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the Groups share of the results while the Groups share of net assets is shown in the consolidated balance sheet.
The results of the associates, adjusted as appropriate to accord with Group accounting policies, are included on the basis of audited accounts for a period ending not more than three months before 31 December.
Investments in associates acquired during the year are incorporated at the Groups share of fair value of underlying net assets at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates is accounted for in accordance with the policy below.
Any unamortised goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in associates.
Intangible assets - goodwill With effect from 1998, goodwill arising on acquisitions is being capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to that date has been dealt with through distributable reserves.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, the attributable amount of goodwill previously written-off to reserves is included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Foreign currency The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings and associates are translated into Sterling using the average rates of exchange during the year.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at year-end closing exchange rates.
Differences arising on translation of the opening balance sheets of subsidiary undertakings and associates and retained profit for the year at the closing rate of exchange are dealt with through reserves, including differences on related foreign currency borrowings to finance the overseas investments.
All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss account.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of first-in, first-out cost and net realisable value: cost includes appropriate production overhead expenses.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
Turnover Turnover represents the net amounts invoiced to external customers but excludes value added and sales taxes and any sales made by associates.
Sales are recognised on despatch.
Leases Assets held under finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed assets at fair value and the corresponding rentals liability is shown net of interest under finance leases within creditors.
The capitalised values are written off over the shorter of the period of the lease and the useful life of the asset concerned and finance charges are written off over the period of the lease.
Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the lease.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
34 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com Depreciation Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is provided at rates estimated to write off the cost less residual value of assets over their useful lives, the principal rates of annual straight line depreciation being: a Freehold buildings 2.5%.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
b Leasehold land and buildings 2.5% or over the period of the lease if less than forty years.
Impairment reviews Where circumstances indicate that there may have been an impairment of the carrying value of an intangible or tangible fixed asset, an impairment review is carried out using cash flows calculated from budgets and projections approved by the Board which are discounted at the Groups risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital calculated from equity market data and borrowing rates.
Grants Grants on assets are credited to the profit and loss account over the lives of the relevant assets.
Other grants are credited to revenue in the year in which the expenditure to which they relate is charged.
Research and development, patents and trade marks Expenditure is charged against profit of the year in which it is incurred.
Pension costs FRS 17 Retirement Benefits has been adopted in full during the year to 31 December 2004. i Defined benefit pension schemes For defined benefit schemes, the cost of benefits accruing during the year in respect of current and past service is charged against operating profit.
The expected return on the schemes assets and the increase in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from the passage of time, are included in other finance income.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
ii Defined contribution pension schemes Amounts charged in respect of defined contribution schemes represent the contributions payable in the year.
Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Groups taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Share options The Company grants share options to directors and employees.
When the options are exercised, the proceeds received net of any transaction costs are credited to share capital par value and share premium.
The intrinsic value of the share options is charged to the profit and loss account over the performance period with any related credit entry being reflected in shareholders funds.
The charge is adjusted each period to reflect lapses of options and re-estimates of the number of options likely to vest in relation to performance conditions.
The Company operates Save as You Earn schemes which allow for the grant of share options at a discount to the market price at the date of the grant.
The Company has made use of the exemption under UITF Abstract 17 not to recognise any compensation charge in respect of these options.
Financial instruments The Group uses financial instruments, including foreign currency loans and forward foreign exchange contracts, solely for the purpose of raising finance for its operations and to manage currency risks associated with the Groups underlying business activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Gains and losses arising on hedging investments are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account when the gains and losses on the underlying hedged transaction are recognised.
Exchange gains or losses on financial instruments designated as net asset hedges are treated as a movement on reserves.
If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, the instrument is revalued to market price and any resulting profit or loss recognised at that time.
