Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the ThirtyCompany on and subject to such ninth Annual General Meeting of terms as the directors may British Vita PLC will be held at the determine.
British Vita Training and Development Centre, Green Street, Middleton, The maximum aggregate nominal Manchester on Wednesday 27 April amount of relevant securities 2005 at 11.00am for the following which may be allotted pursuant to purposes: this authority shall be 15,422,288.
The authority hereby conferred Ordinary business shall expire at the conclusion 1.
To receive and consider the of the Annual General Meeting of accounts and the reports of the the Company to be held in 2006 directors and auditors for the year or, if earlier, on 27 July 2006 unless ended 31 December 2004. renewed, varied or revoked by 2.
To declare a final dividend for the the Company in general meeting.
To re-appoint Mr J. K. Maiden as The directors shall be entitled a director.
under this authority to make at 4.
To re-appoint Mr D. A. Campbell as any time prior to the expiry of this a director.
authority any offer or agreement 5.
To re-appoint Mr C. J. OConnor as which would or might require a director.
relevant securities to be allotted 6.
To re-appoint Sir Mark Wrightson as after the expiry of this authority.
This authority shall be in substitut- 7.
To re-appoint Pricewaterhouseion for and supersede and revoke Coopers LLP as auditors of the any earlier such authority conCompany to hold office until the ferred on the directors.
conclusion of the next general meeting at which the accounts 10.
Special resolution are laid before the Company and That in accordance with Chapter that their remuneration be fixed VII of Part V of the Companies Act by the directors.
To approve the Directors Remunand is hereby generally and eration report.
unconditionally authorised to make market purchases as Special business defined in section 163 of the Act To consider and, if thought fit, pass of Ordinary shares of 25p each in the following resolutions which will be the share capital of the Company proposed as ordinary or special resolon such terms and in such manner utions as respectively designated: as the directors may, from time to 9.
Ordinary resolution time, determine provided that That the directors be and are hereby generally and uncondita the maximum number of ionally authorised in accordance shares hereby authorised to with section 80 of the Companies be purchased is 18,530,865: Act 1985 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to b the maximum price which allot relevant securities as defined may be paid for each share is in section 80 2 of the Act of the an amount equal to 105% of 62 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com the average of the middle where the equity securities Appointment of proxy market quotations for an respectively attributable to the An Ordinary shareholder entitled to Ordinary share of the Compinterests of the Ordinary shareattend and vote at the Annual any as derived from the holders are proportionate as General Meeting is entitled to appoint London Stock Exchange Daily nearly as may be to the one or more proxies to attend and, on Official List for the five businrespective numbers of a poll, vote instead of himself.
A proxy ess days immediately precOrdinary shares held or need not be a member of the Compeding the day on which such deemed to be held by them, any.
Forms of proxy must reach the a share is contracted to be subject only to such exclusions Companys Registrar, Lloyds TSB purchased excluding or other arrangements as the Registrars, by 11.00am on Monday 25 expenses : directors may deem necessary April 2005.
A form of proxy is included or expedient to deal with for the use of Ordinary shareholders.
c the minimum price which may fractional entitlements, legal Completion and return of the proxy be paid for each share is 25p or practical problems arising in will not prevent an Ordinary shareexcluding expenses : any overseas territory or by holder from personally attending and virtue of shares being represvoting at the meeting.
and this authority shall expire at ented by depositary receipts, the conclusion of the Annual the requirements of any regulCopies of the current Articles of AssocGeneral Meeting of the Company atory body or stock exchange, iation and the directors contracts of to be held in 2006 or, if earlier, on or any other matter whatservice will be available for inspection 27 July 2006 except in relation to soever: at the Registered Office of the Compa purchase of shares the contract and any during normal office hours from b for which was concluded before the allotment otherwise than the date of this notice until the close the expiry of such authority and pursuant to paragraph a of the forthcoming Annual General which will or might be executed above of equity securities up Meeting and also at the place of that wholly or partly after such expiry to an aggregate nominal meeting for at least fifteen minutes unless such authority is renewed value of 2,316,358: prior to, and during, the meeting.
and shall expire at the conclusion 11.
Special resolution of the Annual General Meeting of That the directors be and are the Company to be held in 2006 hereby authorised and empowor, if earlier, on 27 July 2006, save ered, pursuant to section 95 1 of that the directors may at any time the Companies Act 1985 the prior to the expiry of this power, Act to allot equity securities as make any offer or agreement defined in sections 94 2 and which would or might require 94 3A of the Act for cash pursequity securities to be allotted uant to the general authority after its expiry.
conferred by Resolution 8 set out in the Notice convening this By order of the Board Meeting, as if section 89 1 of the M. R. Stirzaker Act did not apply to any such Secretary allotment provided that such 7 March 2005 power shall be limited to: Registered in England and Wales a the allotment of equity securNo.
871669 ities in connection with a rights Registered Office: Oldham Road, issue or other issue in favour of Middleton, Manchester, M24 2DB.
the holders of Ordinary shares Annual Report 2004 63
