Shareholder Information Auditors Shareview  LLP The Shareview Portfolio service from 101 Barbirolli Square our registrar, Lloyds TSB Registrars, gives Lower Mosley Street you more control of your Company Share Price Manchester shares and other investments.
When M2 3PW you have registered with the site, you Information can: Principal bankers register your proxy instruction on line: Teletext on 4 offers British Vita PLC National Westminster Bank Plc tell us your mailing preference post share listing on page 500 Lloyds TSB Bank Plc or e-mail for shareholder communFinance Market Report & City ications.
This can be accessed by Registrar and share transfer office pressing the TEXT button on your Lloyds TSB Registrars The site also gives you: remote whenever you are The Causeway direct access to data held for you watching Channel 4 or E4.
This Worthing on the share register including service is available on analogue West Sussex BN99 6DA recent share movements and TV, with digital versions on Telephone 01903 502541 dividend details: Freeview channels 4 and 50 and a valuation of your portfolio, based Sky channel 104.
Stockbrokers and financial advisers on recent share prices: Deutsche Bank AG a range of information and practical help for shareholders.
Share price The price of the Companys During the year, the middle-market Its easy to set up a portfolio - you just shares on the London Stock price of the Companys shares on the need the shareholder reference Exchange with a 15 minute London Stock Exchange moved within printed on your dividend stationery - delay may be found on the a range from 232.0p to 281.0p, with and theres no charge to register.
Companys website the price on 31 December 2004 being Visit the site for more details: 270.0p.
com For the purposes of capital gains tax, the value of the Companys shares on 31 March 1982 was 145p per share.
This value needs to be adjusted for subsequent scrip and rights issues which, if taken up in full, adjusts the base price to 77.7p.
Financial calendar Preliminary announcement of results for the financial year Early March Report and Accounts circulated Mid March Annual General Meeting Mid April Interim Report Early September Dividend payments Interim Early November Final Early May 64 For more information on British Vita visit www.
