Shareholders information 2005 financial calendar Registrars Final dividend record date 22 April 2005 Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Annual General Meeting 15 June 2005 Worthing West Sussex Final dividend payment 20 June 2005 BN99 6DA Interim results September 2005 Telelephone: 0870 691 5366 Interim dividend October November 2005 2005 preliminary results announcement March April 2006 Final dividend 2004 timetable Record date 22 April 2005 Last day to receive DRIP mandates 6 June 2005 Dividend warrants posted 17 June 2005 Payment date shares purchased 20 June 2005 Certificates purchase statements dispatched 1 July 2005 CREST accounts credited 4 July 2005 68 Capital & Regional Glossary of terms Adjusted fully diluted NAV per share includes the effect IPD is Investment Property Databank Ltd, a company that produces of those shares potentially issuable under the CULS or employee an independent benchmark of property returns.
It excludes the capital allowances deferred tax provision.
Market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally Capital allowances deferred tax provision In accordance with for cash consideration on the date of valuation as determined by FRS 19, full provision has been made for deferred tax arising on the the Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, benefit of capital allowances claimed to date.
In the Groups the Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the experience, liabilities in respect of capital allowances provided are deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, unlikely to crystallise in practice and are therefore excluded when agent and legal fees.
arriving at adjusted fully diluted NAV per share.
Net assets per share NAV are shareholders funds divided Contingent tax liability is the unprovided further taxation which by the number of shares held by shareholders at the period end, might become payable if the Groups investments and properties excluding own shares held.
were sold at their balance sheet values net of any tax losses which have not been recognised in the balance sheet.
Passing rent is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under head leases.
CULS is the Convertible Subordinated Unsecured Loan Stock.
Return on equity is the total return, including revaluation surplus, Earnings per share EPS is the profit on ordinary activities after divided by opening equity plus time weighted additions to share taxation divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue capital, excluding share options exercised, less reductions in share during the period excluding own shares held.
Estimated rental value ERV is the Groups external valuers Reversion is the estimated increase in rent at review where the opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, gross rent is below the estimated rental value.
could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce Total return is the Groups total recognised gains and losses for the based upon the timing of the income received.
In accordance with year as set out in the statement of total recognised gains and losses usual practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the Groups STRGL.
external valuers assume rent received annually in arrears and on gross values including prospective purchasers cost.
Total shareholder return is the growth in price per share plus dividends per share.
Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets, adjusted for the conversion of the CULS into equity.
See-through UITF 28 Operating lease incentives debtors Under gearing includes our share of non-recourse net debt in the associates accounting rules the balance sheet value of lease incentives given to and joint ventures.
tenants is deducted from property valuation and shown as a debtor.
The incentive is amortised through the profit and loss account.
HSBC APUT All Pooled Funds Index The Indices are published jointly by HSBC and the Association of Property Unit Trusts and Vacancy rate is the estimated rental value of vacant properties compiled and calculated by Investment Property Databank.
They are expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value of the published quarterly with a target of ten working days from the end portfolio, excluding development properties.
of the quarter and measure investment performance on a NAV-toNAV basis, adjusted to include income distributions.
Initial yield is the annualised net rents generated by the portfolio expressed as a percentage of the portfolio valuation, excluding development properties.
Designed and produced by four 85 Cover photography by Marcus Lyon Review and directors photographed by Robert Wheeler Printed in England by Cousin.
This report is printed using vegetable-based inks on paper which is made from 50% chlorine-free pulp from plantation forests, and from 50% recycled and fide-inked fibres.
Our printer operates an EcoTrans Recycling System, which recycles the chemicals used within the printing process and makes any waste Ph neutral.
Capital & Regional 69 Capital & Regional plc Annual report 2004 Capital & Regional plc 10 Lower Grosvenor Place London SW1W OEN T: 020 7932 8000 F: 020 7802 5600 www.
