Corporate social responsibility Statement of directors responsibilities The Company is committed to providing relevant In respect of the preparation of financial statements information and necessary ongoing training to employees United Kingdom company law requires the directors to in respect of risks to health and safety appropriate to their prepare financial statements for each financial year which activities in the workplace.
All employees are offered private give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the medical insurance as well as long-term disability cover.
Company and Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Environmental policy In preparing those financial statements, the directors are The Company is committed to delivering the highest required to: standards of environmental policy implementation in the management of its retail and leisure property portfolio.
The l Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Company consults employees, shareholders, suppliers and consistently: customers alike to maintain high standards.
The Company l Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and strives to achieve compliance with recognised best practice prudent: and standards, particularly in the areas of energy and its l State whether applicable accounting standards have been efficient use and impact on the environment, recycling followed.
practices, water management and minimisation of use.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting During 2004, The Mall division participated in a national records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any mall environmental benchmarking exercise with Upstream.
time the financial position of the Company and enable The survey analyses the environmental performance of them to ensure that the financial statements comply with over 80 shopping centres in the areas of carbon dioxide the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the emission, water consumption, waste production and system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the recycling.
The results of the survey revealed that, in Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the comparison with other shopping mall operators, The Mall prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
During 2005, The Mall will continue to minimise its impact on the environment as a shopping mall operator and will continue to benchmark its relative industry performance.
Across the X-Leisure spectrum we are committed to an energy saving and recycling programme.
The consumption of electricity at the X-Leisure sites has been reduced through a number of measures, namely the removal of excessive lamping from luminaries in the service corridors, examining the potential for replacing high wattage dichroic halogen lamps with lesser-wattage rated lamps and improving the use and control of internal and external lighting through the use of daylight sensors.
The sites are also looking into the replacement of convector heaters with infrared radiant plaque heaters.
X-Leisure is also endeavouring to increase the tonnage of recycled waste, this is done with support and interaction with the tenants.
For example, in 2004 Xscape Milton Keynes recycled 76 tonnes of glass and 52 tonnes of cardboard.
It is hoped that these figures will be increased in 2005.
The Company also endeavours to include environmental considerations in the design and refurbishment of properties in the Group, applying and installing wherever practicable current best practice technology.
The Company is committed to a process of continuous monitoring and feedback in order to adopt a responsible and positive approach to environmental issues.
