Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 74 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the thirty sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Screen West, John Brown Citrus Publishing, The New Boathouse, 136-142 Bramley Road, London W10 6SR at 2:30pm on Wednesday 26th January 2005 for the following purposes: Ordinary Business Resolution 1 To receive and adopt the annual accounts of the Company for the year ended 31st August 2004, together with the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
Resolution 2 To declare a final dividend of 1.25 pence per ordinary share.
Resolution 3 To elect Mrs H Keays as a Director.
Resolution 4 To re-elect R N L Huntingford as a Director.
Resolution 5 To re-elect P A Lassman as a Director.
Resolution 6 To re-elect C J C Levison as a Director.
Resolution 7 To re-elect Sir George Martin as a Director.
Resolution 8 To re-elect C N Wright as a Director.
Resolution 9 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors of the Company.
Resolution 10 To authorise the Directors to agree the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business To consider, and, if thought fit, pass Resolutions 11, 14, 15 and 16 as Ordinary Resolutions and Resolutions 12 and 13 as Special Resolutions: Resolution 11 That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised, pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of that Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 643,303 for a period expiring unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company following the passing of this resolution, whichever first occurs, but the Company shall be entitled before the expiry of this authority to make an offer or agreement which requires or might require relevant securities to be allotted after expiry of this authority and the Directors shall be entitled to allot relevant securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Resolution 12 That, subject to the passing of Resolution 11, the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Act during the period from the date of the passing of this resolution until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever first occurs, to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 2 of the Act pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 11 or to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 3A of the Act, in either case, as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to such allotment, save that the Company shall be entitled before the expiry of this authority to make an offer or agreement which requires or might require such securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired, provided that this power shall be limited to: a allotments of equity securities where such securities have been offered whether by way of a rights issue, open offer or otherwise to holders of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of ordinary shares, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements in connection with the offering as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any Stock Exchange in any territory: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph a above of equity securities under this authority up to an aggregate nominal amount of 167,834 equal to approximately 5% of the nominal value of the issued share capital as at 6th December 2004.
Resolution 13 That in accordance with Article 39 of its Articles of Association, the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority, pursuant to Section 166 of the Act, to make one or more market purchases as defined in Section 163 3 of the Act of its ordinary shares of 2p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the Board of Directors of the Company may from time to time determine, provided that: i this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever first occurs: Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notice of Annual General Meeting 75 ii the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be limited to 16,783,483 10% of the issued ordinary share capital, as at 6th December 2004 : iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 2p: iv this authority shall not permit the payment per share of more than 5% above the average of the middle market prices shown in the quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days prior to the purchase being made: v the Company shall be entitled to enter into any contract for the purchase of its own ordinary shares which might be completed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, and shall be entitled to make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and vi save as expressed herein, this authority shall only be capable of variation, revocation or renewal by the Company in General Meeting.
Resolution 14 That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000 during the period expiring 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in General Meeting.
Such authority shall extend to enable any such donation to be made or expenditure to be incurred either by the Company or by its wholly-owned subsidiary, Chrysalis Radio London Limited.
For the purposes of this resolution, the expressions donations, EU political organisations and EU political expenditure have the meaning given to them in Part XA of the Act.
Resolution 15 That the Remuneration Report contained within the Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st August 2004 be and is hereby approved.
Resolution 16 To transact any other ordinary business of an Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board C R Potterell ACIS Registered Office: Secretary The Chrysalis Building 13th December 2004 Bramley Road London W10 6SP Notes General a Any member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
Completion and return of the form of proxy does not preclude a shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To be effective the form of proxy and any power of attorney, or notarially certified copy thereof, under which it is executed must be completed and lodged with Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3FA not later than 48 hours before the meeting.
b In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only those members entered on the relevant register of members of the Company as at 2:30pm on 24th January 2005 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 2:30pm on 24th January 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
c A statement of any transactions in the shares of the Company by Directors and their family interests and copies of Directors service contracts including the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excluded and will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2004 76 Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions d The Directors recommend a final dividend of 1.25 pence per ordinary share of 2p Resolution 2. e Authority to allot shares.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 3rd February 2004, the Directors were given authority to allot ordinary share capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 647,267 being the maximum amount permitted under institutional guidelines.
That authority is due to lapse at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
The Directors are seeking to renew authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount approximately equal to the Companys authorised but unissued share capital.
The amount in respect of which authority is sought represents 19.16% of the Companys ordinary share capital in issue excluding treasury shares as at 6th December 2004 and is an amount within the maximum amount permitted under institutional guidelines.
The proposed authority will expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 15 months after the date of approval, whichever first occurs.
The Directors have no present intention of utilising the authority Resolution 11. f Disapplication of pre-emption rights.
If new ordinary shares are to be allotted under the authority granted by Resolution 11 and are to be paid for in cash, Section 89 1 of the Act requires that those new ordinary shares be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to the number of shares they each hold at that time.
There may be circumstances, however, when it is in the interests of the Company for the Directors to be able to allot some of the new ordinary shares for cash otherwise than to existing shareholders in such proportions.
This cannot be done under the Act unless the shareholders have waived their pre-emption rights.
Resolution 12 seeks such a waiver, but only a in respect of new ordinary shares offered largely in proportion to existing holders of ordinary shares, subject to exclusions or arrangements deemed expedient by the Directors for example, the Directors may decide not to offer new ordinary shares to existing holders in jurisdictions outside England and Wales where to make such an offer would or might constitute an offence in such jurisdictions and b for new ordinary shares having a maximum nominal value of 167,834, which is equivalent to approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 6th December 2004.
The requirements of Section 89 of the Act, outlined above, also apply to the sale by the Company of any shares it holds as treasury shares, except to the extent these are disapplied.
The authority sought by Resolution 12 disapplies the application of Section 89 of the Act from a sale of treasury shares to the extent specified in the Resolution.
The authority given by Resolution 12 will continue until the next Annual General Meeting or 15 months after the approval of the Resolution, whichever first occurs Resolution 12. g Purchase of own shares.
The Company is seeking at the Annual General Meeting to renew the authority of the Directors given on 3rd February 2004 and in previous years to take advantage, if appropriate and subject to the constraints set out in Resolution 13, of stock market conditions to purchase its own shares.
The Directors have no present intention of utilising the authority and will, in assessing whether to purchase the Companys own shares, take account of all relevant factors including the effect on earnings per share and assets per share and other benefits to long term shareholders.
As at 6th December 2004 there were in total 6,512,436 options and awards outstanding to subscribe for shares of the Company which together represent 3.88% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares were to be exercised in full, these options and awards would represent 4.31% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
The Act allows shares purchased by the Company out of distributable profits to be held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or used to meet the Companys obligations under its employee share schemes.
The authority sought by Resolution 13 is intended to apply equally to shares to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
The authority sought by Resolution 13 will expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 15 months after the date of approval, whichever first occurs Resolution 13. h Political Donations.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 3rd February 2004, the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Chrysalis Radio London Limited, were given authority to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000 pursuant to the enactment of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The Directors are seeking to renew authority for the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Chrysalis Radio London Limited, to make donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure in an aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000 in the forthcoming year.
This authority will not be used to make political donations as they are normally understood Resolution 14. i Remuneration Report.
The Act requires that each year an ordinary resolution is proposed at the general meeting where the annual accounts for that financial year are laid to approve the Boards remuneration report for that financial year.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 60 to 70 of the Report and Accounts Resolution 15.
Designed, produced and typeset by CorporateEdge.
com Chrysalis Group PLC Group Chrysalis Radio Chrysalis Music www.
co. uk The Chrysalis Building www.
co. uk Telephone: 020 7221 2213 Chrysalis Books www.
co. uk E-mail: enquiries@chrysalis.
