GOVERNANCE The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to meet new directors.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 9 July 2004 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 63 to 65.
Details of the number of proxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution will be disclosed at the meeting.
Internal Controls The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board carries out an annual review of significant business risks, formally considering the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property and financial markets which impact on its objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and the regulatory environment.
Group strategy is reviewed and updated at each Board meeting.
During the course of the year the Group also introduced a formal performance appraisal process for all employees.
As the Company has a small number of employees, there is a high level of executive involvement in the majority of transactions.
Copies of the minutes of the Executive Committee, which comprises the executive directors, are circulated to the non-executive directors.
There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: these processes and procedures were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report, and accord with the Turnbull guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Going Concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 38 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2004
