44 COBHAM PLC Accounting Policies ACCOUNTING CONVENTION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of certain xed assets.
Compliance with SSAP 19 Accounting for Investment Properties requires departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 relating to depreciation and an explanation of the departure is given in the tangible xed assets accounting policy note below.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group financial statements include the financial statements of the parent company and of all its subsidiaries made up to the end of the financial year.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method in accordance with FRS 9 Associates and Joint Ventures.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Businesses acquired are accounted for as acquisitions, with effect from the date control passes.
Those disposed of are accounted for up until the point of their disposal.
TURNOVER Turnover is measured at the fair value of the right to consideration and is generally recognised when goods are despatched or services delivered and excludes intercompany sales, value added tax and other sales taxes.
In the case of long-term contracts, turnover is recognised based upon the fair value of work performed to date.
PENSIONS For dened benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account if the benets have vested.
If the benets have not vested immediately, the costs are recognised over the period until vesting occurs.
The interest cost and expected return on assets are shown as a net amount of other finance costs or credits adjacent to interest.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Other than mainland Europe schemes, dened benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.
The resulting dened benefit asset or liability, net of the related deferred tax is presented separately after other net assets on the face of the balance sheet.
For dened contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benets is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred tax is recognised on a full provision basis on all timing differences which have originated, but not reversed, at the balance sheet date calculated at rates of tax expected to apply, based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences represent accumulated differences between the company's taxable profit and its financial profit and arise primarily from the recognition of the provision for the deficit on the Groups dened benefit pension schemes and the difference between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation.
Deferred tax liabilities have not been discounted.
INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Goodwill arising on acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures made after 1 January 1998 and expenditure on other intangible xed assets comprising patents, licences and trade marks is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over estimated useful lives of up to 20 years.
These periods have been determined after taking into account the nature of the intangible assets acquired and the markets in which these intangible assets operate.
In accordance with the Group's accounting policy prior to the introduction of FRS 10, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 January 1998 has been written off to reserves, but will be charged to the profit and loss account on any subsequent disposal of the business to which it is related.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 45 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Freehold land and investment properties are not depreciated.
Other xed assets are depreciated on a straight line basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
These lives are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold properties The period of the lease Other xed assets 3 to 15 years.
In accordance with SSAP 19, investment properties are held at open market value.
Any aggregate surplus or deficit on revaluation is transferred to a revaluation reserve, and no provision is made for depreciation of freehold properties.
This departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, which requires all properties to be depreciated, is, in the opinion of the directors, necessary for the financial statements to show a true and fair view in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The depreciation which would, had the provisions of the Act been followed, have reduced profit for the year is only one of the factors reected in the annual valuation and the amount attributable to this factor cannot reasonably be separately identied or quantied.
INVESTMENTS Investments are stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
AIRCRAFT ENGINE OVERHAUL EXPENDITURE Expenditure is capitalised when it is incurred on aircraft engine overhauls and this xed asset addition is depreciated over its useful economic life.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development expenditure not chargeable to customers is written off as incurred.
FINANCE LEASES Where assets are nanced by lease agreements that give rights approximating to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright and the corresponding leasing commitments are shown as an obligation under finance leases.
The relevant assets are depreciated on the basis of expected utilisation over the shorter of the life of the contract on which they are employed or the life of the lease.
Lease payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is charged to the profit and loss account in proportion to the outstanding capital commitment.
OPERATING LEASES Operating lease payments for assets leased from third parties are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis.
STOCKS Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost, which includes an appropriate proportion of productive overheads, and net realisable value.
Payments received and receivable on account of work in progress are deducted from the cost of the work carried out at the balance sheet date to the extent of the valuation of the work done.
46 COBHAM PLC Accounting Policies continued FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction or, where forward cover contracts have been arranged, at the contracted rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities denoted in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date or at a contractual rate if applicable and any exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account.
For consolidation purposes the assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures are translated at the closing exchange rates.
profit and loss accounts of such undertakings are consolidated at the average rates of exchange during the year.
Exchange differences arising on these translations are taken to reserves.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Derivative instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, interest rate caps, forward rate agreements and forward currency contracts.
Receipts and payments on financial instruments are recognised on an accruals basis, over the life of the instruments.
Finance costs associated with debt issuances are charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the instruments.
