Notes to the financial statements at 30 September 2004 26 Commitments and contingencies The Company made a number of guarantees on behalf of its subsidiary undertakings, which totalled 43.3 million at 30 September 2004 see note 25c 2003: 33.4 million.
27 Related party transactions There have been no related party transactions entered into during the year which require disclosure under FRS 8.
Definitions Total Transaction Value TTV does not represent statutory turnover.
com acts as agent or cash collector, TTV represents the price at which products or services have been sold across the Groups various platforms.
In other cases, for example the reservation of restaurant tables, a at fee is earned, irrespective of the value of the products or services provided.
In such cases, TTV represents the at fee commission earned.
com acts as principal, TTV represents the price at which goods or services are earned across the Groups various platforms.
Pro-forma organic like-for-like growth is calculated on a quarterly basis and represents the quarter-on-quarter like-for-like growth in total businesses, excluding businesses acquired since 30 September 2003, compared to pro-forma organic like-for-like TTV for the prior year.
Turnover represents the aggregate amount of revenue from products sold and is stated exclusive of recoverable VAT and associated taxes.
Where the Group acts as agent and does not take ownership of the products or services being sold, turnover represents commission.
Where the Group acts as principal and purchases the products or services for resale, turnover represents the price at which the products or services have been sold across the Groups various platforms.
Turnover also includes advertising and sponsorship income which is recognised over the period to which it relates.
Travel turnover is recognised on the date of departure.
Gross margin is dened as pre exceptional gross profit over total transaction value.
Operating cash inow outow is dened as net cash inow outow before management of liquid resources, nancing and acquisitions.
Conversion is dened as the number of customers over the number of registered subscribers excluding those applicable to joint ventures.
The number of customers is the cumulative number of customers excluding repeat customers since the inception of lastminute.
com and the cumulative number of Degriftour, Travelselect.
com, holiday autos, Med Hotels, First Option, Gemstone, OTC and lastminute.
des customers excluding repeat customers since acquisition in October 2000, April 2002, June 2002, July 2002, March 2003, December 2003, January 2004, March 2004, April 2004 and June 2004 respectively.
Customers are dened as individuals who have purchased goods and services over lastminute.
An item sold is an individually priced product or service purchased by a customer within the period.
The number of suppliers includes individual airlines, hotels, holiday package suppliers, car rental companies, entertainment vendors, gift suppliers, restaurants and specialty service suppliers.
Customer acquisition costs are dened as external media spend over the number of unique customers in the period.
This Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements.
Expressions of future goals, including without limitation, intend, will, should, are well on track, expect or continue, and similar expressions reecting something other than historical fact are intended to identify forward looking statements.
The following factors, among others, could cause lastminute.
coms actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements: management of lastminute.
coms rapid growth: speed of technological change, including introduction of new architecture for its web sites: systems-related failures: the ability to attract and retain qualied personnel: adverse changes in lastminute.
coms relationships with airlines and other product and service providers: adverse changes in the services provided by lastminute.
coms ability to attract and develop an adequate international supplier and customer base: potential adverse changes in its commission rates: the effects of increased competition: risks relating to operating internet based commerce in foreign markets: lastminute.
coms dependence on its ability to establish its brand: lastminute.
coms ability to protect its domain names and other intellectual property rights: legal and regulatory risks: a slow down in the continued growth of e-commerce and the internet: unforeseen events affecting the travel industry and factors adversely affecting lastminute.
All such forward-looking statements are made in reliance on the safe harbour provision of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1955.
These and other risk factors are described in detail in lastminute.
coms shareholder circular dated 8 September 2000, which has been led with the Securities and Exchange Commission, USA and the Financial Services Authority, UK.
com plc annual report 2003 48 48 lastminute.
com plc annual report 2004 annual report 2004 Shareholder information 2004 highlights Registered Office: lastminute.
com aims 39 Victoria Street, London SW1H OEE Company number 3852152 to strengthen its Registrar: Our Registrar should be contacted to advise change of address and also for any enquiries relating to lost share certificates or other enquiries relating to share registration.
They can be position as Europes contacted at: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA leading e-commerce Tel: 0870 241 8114 if calling from the UK France 44 0 121 415 7555 if calling from outside the UK Fax: 0870 600 3980 if dialling from the UK lifestyle player by 44 0 1903 702 424 if dialling from outside the UK Email: lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk continuing to delight Further information is also available at http: www.
co. uk its customers with Website: great value inspiration Additional shareholder information including press releases can be found on the Groups Investor Relations website at www.
contents Germany 1 Business highlights 2 Chairmans statement 4 Operational review 8 Financial review 11 Board of Directors 12 Directors report 13 Corporate governance 15 Directors remuneration report 22 Statement of Directors responsibilities 23 Independent auditors report 24 Consolidated profit and loss account 24 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 25 Balance sheets 26 Consolidated statement of cash flows 26 Reconciliation of cash flow to movement in net funds 27 Notes to the financial statements 48 Definitions France IBC Shareholder information 3 3 lastminute.
com plc annual report 2003 lastminute.
com plc annual report 2004 Designed and produced by Loewy Group 44 0 20 7798 2000 lastminutpl Receive your lastminute.
com Annual Report online through Shareview and you could win a luxury lastminute.
como m break for 2 to New York!
The Shareview portfolio service gives you Registration takes just a few minutes: 1.
co. uk the opportunity to access online information 2.
Select Register now on your investments including balance 3.
com from the drop down box and click Go lastminute.
com movements and share prices, and provides 4.
Enter your personal details your shareholder reference number annual report and accounts 2004 is printed on your proxy card a facility to register to receive your Annual 5.
Click on email as your preferred method of Company mailings Report online.
Its easy to use, secure and 6.
Read and accept the terms and conditions free!
Just follow the simple steps below 8.
You can then add any other shareholdings you have in other by doing so, youll automatically be entered PLCs to your portfolio.
Once your portfolio is complete click the into the New York prize draw.
button marked Send me my User ID And thats it!
Your personalised User ID will be sent by post and will give you access to your portfolio in order to manage your shareholdings.
Terms and conditions apply see below for details going away Terms and conditions 1.
The prize is a break for two people to New York City.
Prize includes return flights and 3 nights accommodation in a 5 star hotel on a bed and breakfast basis.
The prize is subject to availability and travel is not permitted over Christmas, New Year and Easter periods and excludes public bank holidays and local festivals.
In the event of unforeseen going out circumstances the promoter reserves the right to offer an alternative prize of equal value without notice.
Travel insurance, UK transfers, US transfers, passport and visa requirements and extras are not included.
To enter, register your email address with Lloyds following the instructions above.
Entries must reach us by midnight on 31.03.05.
Alternatively send an email to newyork@lastminute.
com with your name, address and contact telephone number.
The prize is non-transferable, non-negotiable, non-refundable with no cash alternative.
The promotion is open to UK residents aged 18 and over who hold a valid passport.
com, their families, agencies or anyone directly connected with the competition are not eligible to enter.
No proof of purchase is required.
A list of winners can be obtained by sending an email to tel 0870 145 9200 44 207 866 4200 winners@lastminute.
com terms and conditions apply.
com annual review and summary financial statements 2004 going away going out staying in 2004 highlights lastminute.
com aims to strengthen its position as Europes leading e-commerce lifestyle player by continuing to delight its customers with great value inspiration and solutions.
Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2004 2003 Growth Cumulative unique customers since inception 5,592,919 2,763,289 102.4% Items sold 6,392,323 3,473,595 84.0% Total transaction value 000s 992,281 552,445 79.6% Gross profit 000s 174,561 100,947 72.9% Gross margin 17.6% 18.3% 0.7 % points EBITDA m 24.1 15.0 60.0% Profit before tax m 4.6 0.2 2,200% Pre tax loss m 77.2 47.7 61.8% Earnings per share 1.54p 0.11p 1,300% Loss per share 24.56p 17.88p 37.4 % Net cash balances m 85.9 112.7 23.8 % pre exceptional items and goodwill amortisation contents 1 Chairmans statement 2 Operational review 5 Financial review 7 Board of Directors 8 Summary Directors report 9 Summary Directors remuneration report 16 Summary financial statements 16 Auditors statement 17 Consolidated profit and loss account 17 Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses 18 Balance sheets 19 Consolidated statement of cash ows 19 Reconciliation of cash ow to movement in net funds 20 Shareholder information chairmans statement In my final communication to shareholders I am pleased to report on lastminute.
As previously stated, the final quarter of the 2004 financial year has been difficult for the travel industry as a whole.
Against these market conditions, lastminute.
com has continued to perform solidly.
We have now completed the acquisition significant organic growth has ensured Outlook programme agreed by the Board to that the Group has doubled TTV each The shift from traditional booking deliver scale and industry leading year during the past four years.
We enjoy methods towards the internet continues operating margins in all major European strong market positions in Europe, at pace in the travel and leisure sector.
The Groups strategic focus on particularly the UK, France, Germany, External observers suggest that this shift acquisitions during this year has been to Italy and Spain being our main markets.
will accelerate over the coming months expand product, enhance scale in local Lifestyle products remain fundamental in as customers become more confident markets and acquire supporting attracting new customers at low cost and with buying online, particularly travel, technology.
The first three acquisitions, differentiate us clearly from our increasingly use broadband Med Hotels, First Option and Gemstone competitors.
During the coming year communications as an access tool, Travel have created an opportunity for Lifestyle products will be further demand more exibility in their travel further growth in the hotels category established across the European markets plans and look to create short breaks, where margins are good and the returns and help deliver the lowest customer holidays and leisure packages that are sustainable.
In addition, First Option acquisition costs in the industry.
com is well provides us with a unique marketing positioned to benefit from these trends.
The focus for the 2005 financial year is opportunity, enabling the Group to reto integrate the acquired businesses in brand the First Option outlets at principal all countries, remove duplication and railway stations and airports as overlap in operations and demonstrate lastminute.
OTC expanded our trade the scalability of the model.
This process product and provided excellent technology will reduce the cash cost base by some with which to further develop white label 13.0 million in the 2005 financial year Allan Leighton products throughout the Group.
Chairman The acquisition of lastminute.
fide was Board changes 25 November 2004 strategic, creating the leading online Clive Jacobs, who was appointed Vice travel company in Germany, the largest Chairman following the acquisition of single European travel market.
This holiday autos in March 2003, stepped transaction removes the confusion down from his role at the end of June between the lastminute.
I would like to take this opportunity lastminute.
fide brands and ensures that all on behalf of the Board to thank Clive for our marketing efforts benefit the his valuable contribution to the Group.
In September 2004 Alan Barber joined We believe that the online travel and the Board as a Non-Executive Director leisure market in Germany is set for and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
substantial growth over the next few Im sure Alan will make a very valuable years.
Our enlarged German business contribution to the Group over the will have the broadest travel offering of coming years.
any online company in Germany and is In October 2004 it was announced that very well positioned to exploit this I would step down from the Board at the expected market growth.
end of December, at which time Brian Strategy Collie will take over as Chairman.
I wish The Groups strategy has remained Brian and the Group every success for consistent since its inception in April 1998 the future.
to be the Number 1 independent online travel and leisure group in Europe, providing Finally, David Howell, our Chief Financial customers with inspiration and solutions for officer, has indicated that he wishes to all their travel and leisure needs.
We have initiated a search with external consultants Acquired businesses have generated and an update will be given to the market scale in either a particular product when we have further news.
category or in a relevant geography.
In addition to the acquisitive growth, lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 1 operational review Overall Total Transaction Value TTV for the financial year and quarter 4 2004 amounted to 992.3 million and 398.0 million respectively, compared to 552.4 million and 222.3 million in the previous year.
Overall Group organic growth for the financial year and quarter 4 2004 was 24.9 per cent and 27.9 per cent respectively.
Trends Product category review a signicantly expanded hotel portfolio During quarter 4 2004 we saw a Dynamic packaging by integrating the Med Hotels continuation of the late booking prole of Dynamic packaging continues to display products, and products from two third customers both in the UK and continental substantial growth.
party hotel chains, Boscolo and Jac.
In France that trend was even These provide more breadth and depth It is our strategic business platform more pronounced with forward booking to the hotel range, particularly for resort moving forward and, following launch in patterns falling to a low of 5 days based hotels.
the UK, was introduced in France, Italy compared with 4 to 6 weeks in the and Spain towards the end of 2003 and access to charter ights so that previous year.
The resort customers can create their own The lastminute.
com brand grew by 58.2 product offerings have been substantially package holiday per cent over the full year.
Our leadership expanded, giving customers the exibility tours and attractions, following the position in the UK online travel and to not only package their weekend break integration of Viator products leisure sector was enhanced by but also their summer holiday to the transfers between airport and hotel, additional marketing commitment in Mediterranean.
now available in many city and resort quarter 4 which helped generate 1.1 In June 2004 an on-site survey revealed destinations million unique customers in the quarter, a that 65 per cent of customers prefer ights from a number of low cost growth of 97.3 per cent over the independent travel and are now airlines previous year and 35.1 per cent over the designing their own itineraries.
Total unique customers an ability to compare the costs of a confidence that dynamic packaging will for the year amounted to 2.9 million dynamic package to a third party be one of our major growth products compared with 1.5 million in 2003.
Those holiday over the coming years.
Dynamically customers purchased 6.4 million items packaged Total Transaction Value TTV in pre-packaged entertainment, theatre and 2.1 million items in the year and quarter 4 2004 amounted to 24.5 million and restaurants packages quarter respectively 2003: 3.5 million, compared with 7.0 million in quarter 4 Based on current trends, dynamic quarter 4 2003: 1.2 million.
2003, growth of 250 per cent year-onpackaging is on track to be at least 25 During quarter 4 2004 we invested an year.
per cent of total Group TTV in 3 to 5 additional 3.6 million, mainly in the UK, During 2004 lastminute.
over and above our original marketing expand the choice available to customers Package holidays budgets to ensure delivery of the summer through dynamic packaging to incorporate: Sales of package holidays on behalf of growth targets.
The overall customer access to Eurostars sales inventory tour operators, including in-house, where acquisition costs for quarter 4 amounted during March 2004.
This provides we provide access to industry leading to 9.37 per customer compared with access to real time ticket availability search capabilities, remain important to 10.00 per customer in the same period and pricing enabling customers to the Group.
Total package holiday TTV last year, an industry leading position.
search for comprehensive travel generated in the year and quarter 4 2004 lastminute.
com has a leading position in options between London and Paris respectively amounted to 257.1 million the online travel and leisure space in or Brussels and 102.5 million compared with each of its five main markets UK, 188.5 million and 69.7 million in the France, Germany, Italy and Spain.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Flights For the year over 200,000 lastminute.
The addition of the OTCs Overall ight only sales for the year customers enjoyed Days Out Experiences.
significant white label operations to totalled 271.7 million 2003: 155.9 In addition, we have access to 115 of the lastminute.
Flight only sales are principally top 150 theatres in the UK, more than any consumer business has created an sourced from the major scheduled other third party operator.
even more powerful force in the airlines.
Total ights TTV in quarter 4 European online travel and leisure Acquisitions 2004 amounted to 94.7 million sector.
The acquisition completed at The acquisition programme to generate compared with 51.2 million in quarter 4 the end of April 2004. scale in both product categories and 2003, growth of 85.0 per cent.
principal countries is now complete.
We The OTC acquisition was earnings Hotels have generated industry leading margins enhancing before exceptional items and Hotel bookings remain fundamental to and scale in the 5 main European goodwill amortisation in the current the overall Group performance, markets where we focus.
The elimination of duplicate generating improving margins with one functions, increased operating efficiencies In December 2003 we announced the of the highest adoption rates by and an improvement in the OTC gross purchase of Med Hotels, a UK hotel customers.
Total hotel TTV for the year margin through increased scale are consolidator and package holiday reseller was 217.5 million 2003: 45.9 million expected to generate annualised under the Travel Bargains brand, for and for quarter 4 2004 amounted to operating synergies during the financial 22.2 million and in January 2004, the 98.7 million quarter 4 2003: 16.0 year to 30 September 2005.
These purchase of a reseller of UK hotel rooms million.
We now have access to synergies form part of the annual savings through both a call centre based in approximately 100,000 hotels, of of 13.0 million to be achieved in 2005.
Stockport and retail outlets based in UK which 15,000 are directly contracted.
mainline railway stations and airports, These acquisitions have added to the First Option Hotel Reservations Ltd First overall scale of the Group, enabling us to We lled over 6 million hotel room Option, for 12.2 million.
develop new or enhanced relationships nights internationally during the year.
with key suppliers, including pan Our most recent deal with IHG gives These acquisitions created opportunities European deals with American Airlines, lastminute.
com access to over 500,000 for further growth in a product category KLM and Air Berlin and worldwide international hotel rooms.
where customer adoption is excellent relationships with hotel suppliers such and the margin is improving.
The Car hire as InterContinental Hotels Group, Hilton presence at principal UK railway stations Car hire generates the highest overall International and Radisson Edwardian.
and airports has added signicantly to the gross margins with the product being These new agreements ensure that overall reach of the lastminute.
com brand supplied by over 180 suppliers in 4,000 we continue to deliver the most and continues the delivery of our mission locations.
Total car hire sales amounted to comprehensive service to our customers to make lastminute.
com a part of 200.4 million in the year compared to through product of the highest quality peoples daily lives.
These acquisitions, 133.3 million reported in 2003 for a seven and the best available prices.
together with the existing hotel category, month period.
TTV in quarter 4 2004 make us one of the leading European In June 2004, we announced the amounted to 82.5 million quarter 4 2003: players in online hotels sales in the UK, strategic acquisition of the lastminute.
fide 74.8 million, growth of 10.3 per cent.
generating in excess of 6.0 million room group of companies in Germany.
During the year, customers rented over 1 nights annually.
fide offers online access million cars from lastminute.
to package holidays to German In March 2004 we announced the Lifestyle and non-travel items consumers to all popular travel acquisition of Gemstone Travel Limited The lifestyle products are key to destinations.
Following this acquisition, for 2.9 million.
Gemstone is a reseller of generating and retaining customers at lastminute.
com occupies the leading package holidays and charter ights low cost with high repeat visits and online position in Germany.
mainly through a call centre based in bookings.
Lifestyle and non-travel TTV Surrey.
This business is being integrated Integration of acquisitions and amounted to 45.6 million in the year with Travel Bargains to further leverage cost reduction programme 2003: 28.9 million and 19.6 million in scale and reduce costs.
Recent acquisitions have taken our quarter 4 2004 quarter 4 2003: 10.6 business to scale but have also made our In March 2004 we also announced the million, therefore delivering organic organisation more complex.
We have terms of a recommended share offer to growth of 57.8 million for the year.
In entered a period of integration and acquire the whole of the issued and to terms of items sold, lifestyle grew consolidation in order to eliminate be issued share capital of Online Travel organically in the year by 61.9 per cent.
duplicate functions, increase operating Corporation OTC for approximately lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 3 operational review continued efficiencies and enhance margins.
The Strengthening the management team integration plans will ensure that the As part of its ongoing strategic business Group remains the most dynamic and review the Group has created the new innovative company in the sector and will role of Chief Information officer to drive future business growth.
manage the global technology team.
Mike Remedios joins from Star Solutions The objectives of these programmes for in the US, a business development and 2005 are now to: consulting company founded by him in reduce the 2004 cash operating costs 2002.
Prior to Star Solutions, Mike was reduce the number of ofces by 12 responsible for Kmarts e-commerce and ISP subsidiary, BlueLight.
com a site that reduce our headcount by at least 355 has in excess of 1.2 million visitors per generate savings of 13.0million in day, where he gained a broad range of financial year 2005 technical experience.
Mike also has The actions taken so far ensure we are extensive experience with supply-chain on track to deliver those savings across re-engineering, acquisition integration a number of areas in the businesses, and outsourcing.
both in the UK and internationally.
In November 2004, we announced the To date, we have streamlined the senior appointment of Phil Clark as Investor management team and integrated the Relations Director to improve our marketing and production teams in the communication with analysts and UK, cutting 45 roles and saving 4.5 shareholders and to recognise the million annually, planned to rationalise strategic importance of this activity.
the number of technology product Current trading platforms that we operate to save At this stage we anticipate that TTV for 1.0 million annually, started to quarter 1 2005, our seasonally weakest consolidate and automate certain of our quarter, will be between 245 million and call centres and customer service 255 million, an increase of over 70 per functions saving 105 jobs and generating cent pro forma 25 per cent increase savings of 2.5 million per annum, year-on-year over quarter 1 2004 and started a process in our European ofces overall gross margins based on current to consolidate premises and functions mix of around 16 per cent, as expected.
saving a further 3.0 million per annum, Costs for the quarter are anticipated to leveraging our procurement processes be in line with our expectations.
to generate savings of 1.0 million annually and streamlining our other international operations to save a further 1.0 million annually.
Brent Hoberman Chief Executive officer 25 November 2004 4 lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 financial review The year to 30 September 2004 has seen a continuation of our path to profitable growth, despite the underperformance in the UK business, which was affected by integration issues, which had a negative impact on our operations.
This has now been addressed by management reorganisation and our post summer integration plans.
For scal year 2004, we post record total The associated cost of sales for the year acquisitions and TTV growth.
The transaction value TTV, high organic was 265.0 million 2003: 87.4 million.
acquired businesses will be integrated growth and sustainable, industry leading during the 2005 financial year.
The increased levels of both turnover and retail margins.
We exit the 2004 financial costs of sales relate to the organic Product development costs year with annualised TTV of over growth in the existing businesses at Product development costs consist of 1.0 billion.
the costs associated with maintaining the During 2004 we also delivered profit hardware and software platforms on Gross profit before tax pre exceptional items and which the websites and other technology Gross profit for the financial year goodwill amortisation of 4.6 million, platforms exist.
Overall product amounted to 174.6 million 2003: EBITDA pre exceptional items of 24.1 development costs amount to 7.5 100.9 million, growth of 72.9 per cent million, earnings per share of 1.45p for million for the year, an increase of 61.8 year-on-year.
the year pre exceptional items, goodwill per cent compared to last year.
That Gross profit is made up of the amortisation and taxation and operating increase principally arises from the commissions and income earned on the cash inow, pre exceptional items, of development costs associated with the products and services sold by the Group 9.4 million.
We close the year with a acquired businesses.
and the revenues earned from forward order bank of 64.3 million Sales and marketing costs sponsorship and advertising on both the compared with 43.6 million at the Sales and marketing costs, excluding websites and the newsletter.
end of 2003. agents commission, totals 69.5 million The gross margin of 17.6 per cent for the Total transaction value, turnover for the year to 30 September 2004 year compares to 18.3 per cent in 2003. and gross profit compared to 44.9 million in the prior The year-on-year change reects the TTV, turnover and gross profit all show year.
The increase reects the effect of different product mix in the current considerable growth over 2003.
This acquisitions and the decision to invest a financial year.
growth has been driven by a strong further 3.6 million in marketing during organic performance, especially in the A review of our overseas expenditure quarter 4.
As a percentage of TTV these lastminute.
com brand and partly fed by during the financial year identied an costs represent 7.0 per cent this year acquisitions.
Strong organic growth in opportunity to reduce VAT costs we have compared with 8.1 per cent last year.
France has also helped to deliver this incurred and which we have previously Agents commission relates to the performance.
Consequently there is a commission paid to travel agents for the 4.4 million contribution to gross profit.
TTV sale of car hire products and Mediterranean We had anticipated an additional TTV relates to the gross value of sales Hotels through high street travel agents.
contribution of some 2.0 million but, as for products and services delivered Total agents commission was 35.7 we have not concluded negotiations with through our websites and other million in the year, 3.6 per cent of TTV, the tax authorities on this sum, we have platforms.
For the year to 30 September compared to 17.1 million last year, 3.1 per taken the view that this should not be 2004 departure based TTV amounted to cent of TTV.
The year-on-year increase recognised until those negotiations are 992.3 million, up from 552.4 million in reects the addition of Med Hotels from successfully completed.
The annualised the prior year.
The five acquisitions made December 2003 and the growth in the effect going forward of these operational during the financial year contributed sales of holiday autos products.
changes will be a contribution of at least 247.9 million to this result and 130.5 General and administration costs 5.0 million to gross profit, provided the million in quarter 4.
General and administration costs for the current legislation relating to indirect Group organic, like-for-like growth year increased from 19.4 million in the taxes remains intact across Europe.
This amounted to 24.9 per cent in the year.
year to 30 September 2003 to 37.9 benefit is within our current expectations The lastminute.
com brand grew by 58.2 million.
This increase again reects the for gross margin.
per cent in the same period reecting the post acquisition costs associated with For the key summer quarter we delivered shift to customers booking online.
the acquired businesses and the gross profit of 72.4 million, compared increased scale in TTV.
General and Departure based TTV during the key with 45.2 million in 2003, an increase administration costs were 3.8 per cent quarter 4 amounted to 398.0 million of 60.1 per cent.
compared to 222.3 million in the Operating costs previous year.
The organic growth rate in Operating exceptional items Overall operating costs, before this period amounted to 27.9 per cent.
Net operating exceptional items amount depreciation and goodwill amortisation, to 15.2 million in the year 2003: 5.1 Turnover amount to 150.5 million compared with million.
The exceptional items mainly Total turnover including our share of joint 85.9 million in the previous year.
The relate to the reorganisation and ventures for the year amounted to increase mainly reects the post rationalisation of the various businesses 440.1 million, representing an increase acquisition cost bases of the five both in the UK and internationally and the of 130.8 per cent over the previous acquisitions made during the financial consequent disruption associated with financial year 2003: 190.7 million.
year and the full year effect of the 2003 that reorganisation.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 5 financial review continued Of these amounts 5.4 million relates to Sterling.
Interest paid of 6.0 million The Board sets the treasury polices used redundancy costs, 1.9 million of project consists of 1.3 million of bank interest by the Group including the parameters management fees relating to the and charges, 0.1 million of finance lease within which treasury risk management integration, 2.0 million of property interest and 4.6 million of interest is operated.
provisions relating to potential future payable on the convertible bond.
The Groups principal market risk is rents and dilapidations, a one-off charge Earnings per share currency exchange risk especially in relating to operational inefficiencies as a Pre goodwill amortisation the Group relation to the US Dollar and the Euro.
result of the relocation of UK Finance and generated earnings per share pre The Group enters into a limited number Operations to Camberley of 2.2 million exceptional items and goodwill of derivative transactions to manage and 3.7 million as a consequence of the amortisation and taxation of 1.45p currency exposures from its operations.
various reorganisations and moves to compared to 0.08p in 2003.
The overall The Group policy is to hedge known Oracle accounting in a number of loss per share for the year amounted to exposures.
Throughout the period no businesses.
An analysis of this charge 24.56p 2003: loss 17.88p.
The principal speculative positions in currencies have shows that 8.9 million relates to cash component to this increase relates to the been taken.
items and 6.3 million to non-cash items.
At 30 September 2004 the Group has not EBITDA This additional amortisation contributed hedged its Euro exposure arising from EBITDA, pre exceptional items, for the 7.67p loss per share.
the convertible bonds as this acts as a year to 30 September 2004 amounts to Net cash balance and cash flow natural hedge in time for the dividends 24.1 million 2003: 15.0 million.
The improvements that will accrue from our European significant growth, 60.0 per cent, derives At 30 September 2004 the Group net subsidiaries.
from the gross profit associated with the cash balance net of overdraft usage but Cash balances are deposited with AAA growth in TTV net of the changes in the before the convertible loan amounted to rated institutions and earn interest at cost base and the positive effect of the 85.9 million 30 September 2003: competitive rates, current rates range acquired businesses.
The convertible loan from 2.1 per cent to 4.6 per cent.
EBITDA amounted to 22.3 million 2003: balance at that time amounted to 68.7 US Listing 14.2 million.
On 15 July 2004 we announced our Depreciation and goodwill During the year the Group generated an intention to voluntarily fide-list from the amortisation operating cash inow of 38.9 million Nasdaq National Market, to terminate our Depreciation principally relates to the 2003: 29.1 million.
The main use of American Depositary Receipt facility and depreciation of computer systems and that cash inow was to fund exceptional to seek ways in which we could capitalised software developments.
For items and acquisition related liabilities of terminate our reporting obligations under the year to 30 September 2004 that 14.2 million, capital expenditure of 25.0 the US Securities Exchange Act.
The charge amounted to 16.5 million 2003: million and acquisitions net of acquired Group can now confirm that its ADR 14.8 million.
Capitalised software cash of 25.0 million.
The issue of share facility has been terminated and its development is written off over two capital generated cash of 1.6 million.
Nasdaq listing has been cancelled.
As a consequence of the 2004 It is anticipated that the operating cash can also now confirm that on 24 acquisitions depreciation will increase outow during quarter 1 2005, our November 2004, following a significant in 2005. seasonally weakest quarter for cash review of our US shareholder base and Goodwill amortisation for the year generation, will amount to approximately continuing requirements for registration amounted to 66.6 million 2003: 42.9 50 million.
The increase in this amount under the Act, we led a certication and million.
Goodwill on acquired businesses since our July statement is partly notice of termination of registration is amortised over four years from the explained by an improved opening net under the Act and suspension of our point of acquisition.
The substantial cash position of some 16.0 million, an previous requirements to le reports increase in this charge in 2004 relates to improved trading performance in holiday under that Act.
This ling is fully effective the full year effect of the businesses autos and Med Hotels, where those after a ninety-day period, following which acquired in 2003 and the proportion of businesses do not benefit from the compliance with US reporting the acquisitions made in 2004 that negative working capital nature of the requirements will no longer be required.
relates to this financial year.
com Group and a higher than The Group does not therefore expect to Profit on ordinary activities before anticipated proportion of ight only sales le a Form 20-F for the year ended 30 taxation pre exceptional items and in quarter 4.
Subsequent quarters of September 2004. goodwill amortisation financial year 2005 should all be cash The profit on ordinary activities pre generative, as demonstrated in previous exceptional items and goodwill years.
The Group now has revised bank amortisation amounted to 4.6 million for overdraft facilities of 20 million.
David Howell the year compared to 0.2 million in the Chief Financial officer Treasury policies and risk corresponding period last year.
The loss 25 November 2004 management on ordinary activities before taxation The Group nances its operations by a amounted to 77.2 million 2003: loss combination of internally generated cash 47.7 million.
ows, finance leases, overdraft facilities Interest received of 2.7 million consists and xed rate convertible bonds that of 1.7 million of deposit interest and were issued in September 2003 1.0 million of foreign exchange gain on e102.6 million, with 6.0 per cent coupon.
the translation of the convertible bond to 6 lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 board of directors Allan Leighton Ian McCaig Sven Boinet Aged 51.
Allan was appointed Chairman Aged 38.
Ian was appointed a Director of Aged 51.
Sven was appointed as a Nonof the Company in October 2000 and will the Company on 20 November 2003 and Executive Director in August 2003. be leaving the Company on 31 December has been the Chief Operating officer of During the 15 years to January 2003, he 2004.
He previously served as President the Group since August 2003.
Previously was with the Accor Group.
During that and Chief Executive officer of Wal-Mart Ian has held senior management period he was a member of the Europe.
He worked at Asda Group from positions at Nokia, most recently as a Executive Board and responsible for June 1992 to November 2000 and was Global Vice President.
He was Group Chief Executive from 1996 to also CEO of their Leisure Division.
Allan is also the Chairman of Royal currently a Non-Executive Director of Bob Collier Mail Group plc and British Home Stores Geodis, Frances largest road transport Aged 64.
Bob has been Vice Chairman Limited and a Non-Executive Director of company and Pierre et Vacances, the and a Non-Executive Director of the BSkyB PLC and George Weston Limited.
largest French leisure residential Company since February 2000, and was company.
previously a Director of Last Minute Brent Hoberman Network Limited from October 1998.
Brent was the co-founder of previously served as a Vice Chairman of Alan Barber lastminute.
com and has been the Chief Saison Overseas BV, the former parent Aged 57.
Alan was appointed NonExecutive officer of the Company since company of Intercontinental Hotels Executive Director and Chairman of the inception.
Previously Brent was a Senior Group, after serving as Companys Audit Committee in Associate at Spectrum Strategy Joint Managing Director of September 2004.
He previously worked Consultants, held the business InterContinental Hotels Group from 1994 at KPMG for 35 years until May 2004, development responsibilities at Line One, to 1997.
He is Non-Executive Chairman where he had been a senior partner an internet service provider owned by of both Bristol Golf Club Ltd and since 1979.
During his time at KPMG he News International, British Telecom and Myhotels Limited, and is also a Nonheld a number of senior management United News & Media.
He was also part Executive Director of Green Globe and client positions covering a broad of the founding team of the European Limited, London Wasps Holdings PLC, range of services including travel and auction site, QXL.
Daniel Thwaites Plc and Pegasus retail.
Alan is currently a Non-Executive Solutions Inc. Director of Teather & Greenwood.
Martha was the co-founder of Brian Collie lastminute.
Brian has been a Non-Executive Managing Director of the Company until Director of the Company since February 31 December 2003 following which she 2000 and takes over from Allan Leighton became a Non-Executive Director.
From as Chairman in January 2005.
He has May 1997 to April 1998 she was been Group Retail Director and an Business Development Manager at Executive Director of BAA plc since Carlton Communications.
Prior to that 1997, responsible for all commercial she was an Associate at Spectrum income at BAAs airports globally, and Strategy Consultants, where she was responsible for establishing World specialised in pay television and Duty Free, the international duty free managed teams both in the UK and Asia.
subsidiary of BAA: he was previously Retail Director at Gatwick Airport.
Brian is also a Non-Executive Director of Jurys David Howell Doyle Hotel Group plc.
David was appointed Chief Financial officer and an Executive Director of the Company in July 2001.
Agns Touraine Prior to this appointment he was Group Aged 49.
Agns was appointed as a NonFinance Director of First Choice Holidays Executive Director in May 2003.
Previously France, she is a well respected and David was Group Finance Director of experienced businesswoman in both Central Transport Rental Group PLC and growth and large scale businesses.
In her Group Chief Executive of GN Comtext previous role she was Chairman and CEO Limited, a subsidiary of GN Great Nordic.
of Vivendi Universal Publishing and has David was previously a Non-Executive held a number of senior executive and Director of Nestor Healthcare Group PLC consultancy positions, principally within from 1999 until October 2003 and was media and publishing businesses, during appointed Director of the Berkeley Group her career.
Agns is currently the Member of the Audit Committee plc in February 2004.
In November 2004, managing Partner of Act III Consultants, Member of the Remuneration Committee the Company announced that David will a management consultancy rm.
be leaving the Company in early 2005. lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 7 Summary Directors report The full Directors report is set out on page 12 of the Groups annual report.
Principal activities A detailed review of the business of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and an indication of likely future developments are contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Operational Review and the Financial Review on pages 1 to 6.
Dividends The Directors recommend that no dividend be paid for the year ended 30 September 2004 2003: nil.
Directors and their interests The names of the Directors at the date of this report, together with their biographical details, are set out on page 7.
The interests of Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are given in the Summary Directors remuneration report on pages 9 to 15.
All the Directors held ofce throughout the year other than Alan Barber appointed on 16 September 2004.
Clive Jacobs was also a director of the Company until 30 June 2004.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Alan Barber who has been appointed a Director since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will offer himself for election.
Substantial shareholders As at 25 November 2004, the Directors had been notied of the following notiable interests representing 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Number of ordinary shares % Number of ordinary shares % Fidelity International 47,362,367 13.92 The Goldmans Sachs Group 23,787,175 6.99 Standard Life 33,814,593 9.94 Brent Hoberman 15,836,133 4.65 The Capital Group Companies Inc 27,116,734 7.97 Legal & General 15,516,572 4.56 Political and charitable donations The Group made charitable donations of nil during the year 2003: nil.
No political donations were made during the year 2003: nil.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP acted as auditor to the Company throughout the year.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Arundel House, 13-15 Arundel Street, London WC2R 3DX on 3 March 2005 at 10.00am.
The notice of meeting is set out in the circular to shareholders dated 25 January 2005.
By order of the Board Simon Watkins Secretary 25 November 2004 8 lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Summary Directors remuneration report Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the new Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The report is divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing policy on remuneration for Executive Directors and senior management and determining specic remuneration packages.
Brian Collie is Chairman of the Committee and Agns Touraine and Sven Boinet are Committee members: they are all independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee members have no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in matters to be decided, no potential conicts of interests arising from cross directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Group HR Director and Group Company Secretary also attend Remuneration Committee meetings and other Executive Directors attend when required except that no Executive Director takes part in discussions relating to their own remuneration and benets.
The Remuneration Committee received wholly independent advice on executive compensation and incentives only from Halliwell Consulting during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted with written Terms of Reference.
A copy of the Terms of Reference is available to shareholders by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the registered ofce, details of which are set out on page 20 of this annual review and summary financial statement.
The Remuneration Committee formally met twice during the year.
The Board have reviewed the Groups compliance with the Code on remuneration related matters.
It is the opinion of the Board that the Group complied with all remuneration related aspects of the Code during the year.
Remuneration policy overview Following a full review of Executive Director and senior management remuneration completed in December 2003, shareholders approved a new remuneration policy at the 2004 AGM.
The Remuneration Committees new policy as operated in 2004, and expected to be operated in the foreseeable future, is to set the main elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors at the following quartiles in comparison to the Companys Comparator Group: Base salary Annual bonus potential Pension Benets in kind Share incentives Lower Quartile Medium to Upper Quartile Market Practice Market Practice Upper Quartile The Remuneration Committee will continue to review the policy on an annual basis to ensure that it is in line with the Companys objectives and shareholders interests.
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide remuneration packages that will motivate and retain talented people in the business and enable the Company to be competitive when recruiting appropriately skilled and experienced newcomers.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the policy will retain and develop further the Groups entrepreneurial culture whilst also focusing the majority of executive remuneration on performance, which the Committee believes will best serve shareholders interests.
It is therefore the aim of the Remuneration Committee to encourage and reward superior performance by Executives.
It should be noted that the real value received by the Executive Directors under the share incentive arrangements will be dependent upon the degree to which the associated performance conditions have been satisfied at the end of the three year performance period and the share price of the Company at that time.
Comparator Group The Companys Comparator Group for 2004 for the purposes of benchmarking remuneration and comparative performance was: Amazon Luminar Arena Manchester United Burberry Merchant Retail Carphone Warehouse Monsoon Easyjet MyTravel Ebay N Brown Ebookers New Look First Choice Next Game Group Punch Taverns HMV Restaurant Group formerly City Centre Restaurants Holidaybreak Sportech InteractiveCorp Ted Baker LA Fitness Wembley The basis of the selection of this Comparator Group was: retail companies with a comparable market capitalisation to that of Company: retail companies with a significant online presence: leisure and travel companies with which the Company competes for similar customers spend: and US based companies competing in a similar market or fashion to lastminute.
On an ongoing basis the Remuneration Committee, with input from the Executive Directors, will continue to review the Comparator Group to ensure that it is appropriate given the current stage of the Companys development and market factors generally.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 9 Summary Directors remuneration report continued Fixed and variable remuneration The charts below demonstrate the balance between xed and variable performance based pay for the year ended 30 September 2004 for each of the current Executive Directors: Key Fixed remuneration is calculated as: salary, pension, benets.
Performance remuneration is calculated as: bonus available, face value of LTIP on grant, fair value of options on grant.
The main elements of these packages and the performance conditions are described below.
With the exception of David Howell, who has been a non-executive of The Berkeley Group plc and Nestor Healthcare Group plc during the year, the Executive Directors do not have any external appointments as directors of other companies.
The Remuneration Committee has permitted David Howell to retain his earnings from his external appointments, which amounted to 30,000 during the year.
Elements of Executive Directors remuneration Basic salary The Remuneration Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries in 2003 and decided to adjust salary levels to around the lower quartile twenty fifth percentile position of the Comparator Group but phased over the course of the year.
It was the view of the Remuneration Committee that a significant increase in salary 33% was required for the CEO in order to move his salary level to a comparative position within the Executive Director team.
The table below shows the overall salary increases implemented over the year.
Details of actual amounts paid are set out in the audited section of the report.
Percentage Lower quartile of Name Salary 2003 Current salary increase Comparator Group Brent Hoberman CEO 150,000 200,000 33% 234,000 David Howell CFO 140,000 160,000 14% 154,500 Ian McCaig COO 135,000 148,000 9.5% 190,750 The Committee believes that this approach is appropriate given the need to both reward and motivate Executive Directors to lead the Company through the next stage of its development, but also ensures that the xed cost of the Executive Director team to shareholders is minimised.
When determining the salary of the Executive Directors the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration: the levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable status, responsibility and skills, in organisations of broadly similar size and complexity, in particular the lower quartile salary levels of those companies within the Comparator Group: the performance of the individual Executive Director: the individual Executive Directors experience and responsibilities: and pay and conditions throughout the Company.
com plc Annual Share Bonus Plan the ASB approved at the 2004 AGM The policy is to set the maximum annual bonus potential between the median and the upper quartile in relation to the Comparator Group.
The following table shows the split between the maximum immediate cash bonus, bonus share and deferred bonus share potential for participants in the ASB: Deferred Bonus Shares based on Maximum annual pre-tax value Position bonus potential Cash element Bonus shares of bonus shares Executive Director 100% 50% 25% 25% Deferred Bonus Shares will only be released if the executive is still employed by the Company at the end of the three year deferral period from the Award Date.
If the executive disposes of any of the Bonus Shares during the three year deferral period a corresponding proportion of Deferred Bonus Shares will be forfeited.
The maximum bonus potential available for the Executive Directors for the financial year 2003 4 was 100% of salary with performance targets being based on EPS 25%, EBITDA 50% and individual targets 25%.
The financial targets were not met and therefore no bonuses have been paid to Executive Directors under the ASB during the year.
The same bonus parameters and performance measures will be operated for the financial year 2004 5.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Bonus targets are reviewed and agreed by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each financial year.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Share incentives Overview The Company has previously operated the 1998 Unapproved and the 2000 Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes.
At the 2004 AGM shareholders approved a change to the operation of the existing Option Schemes and the introduction of the new lastminute.
com plc Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP as part of the new remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior management.
Both these Plans have been operated by the Company during 2004.
New policy The Remuneration Committee aims to provide annual rather than one-off share grants to Executive Directors at the upper quartile level compared to the Comparator Group.
The Remuneration Committees policy is that the maximum combined awards of options and LTIPs will not exceed 300% of salary p. a.
The following table sets out the combined grants made to Executive Directors during 2004: Long-Term Existing Total annual Incentive Plan option scheme share award Upper quartile of Position % of salary % of salary % of salary Comparator Group Brent Hoberman CEO 100% 200% 300% 200% David Howell CFO 100% 150% 250% 200% Ian McCaig COO 100% 150% 250% 200% The above grant levels approved by shareholders were set as an introductory grant policy on the implementation of the new share incentive arrangements.
It is anticipated that ongoing grant levels will be lower.
Existing grants prior to the 2004 AGM Type of incentive Vesting period Frequency of grant Performance condition Options to Executive Directors Step Vesting over a three year One-off on recruitment with No performance conditions.
and Senior Employees period with a percentage top up grants when necessary.
December 2002 Option to CE0 Three years Group profitable over 2 successive quarters pre-tax profit and pre goodwill amortisation : and EPS growth of RPI 3%p.
a. over a three period or failing this EPS growth of 9% over RPI over any successive 4 year period.
Grants During Year Maximum annual grant Vesting Frequency of Performance condition Type of incentive % of salary period grant for 2004 grants Options No individual scheme limit but 3 Years Annual EPS growth above RPI and a TSR underpin: subject to the overall limit of no-retesting Basic EPS Growth and % of Option Vested 300% of salary.
30% RPI 20% p. a. and greater 100% LTIP Awards 200% 3 Years Annual Comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR : no-retesting TSR Position Against Comparator Group and % of Shares Released Below Median 0% Median 30% Upper Quartile 100% There is straight line vesting between points Details of all grants are set out on page 15. lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 11 Summary Directors remuneration report continued Performance condition selection & measurement Options The Remuneration Committee felt that EPS growth as a key performance measure for the Company was an appropriate performance condition for the vesting of options.
The Remuneration Committee took the following factors into account when deciding the appropriate EPS performance measure for grants of options during 2004: the median and upper quartile historic levels of year on year growth in EPS for the Comparator Group companies: and the projected EPS growth for the Company provided by external analysts.
Given the Companys transition to profitability and the corresponding low EPS base point, in addition to challenging EPS growth targets, the Remuneration Committee has decided that option vesting will also be subject to a Total Shareholder Return TSR underpin.
As such option vesting will only occur if the Companys TSR performance is at least at the median position within the Comparator Group.
LTIPs Comparative TSR was selected as the performance condition for LTIP awards by the Remuneration Committee as it ensures that Executive Directors have outperformed their peers in the Comparator Group over the measurement period in delivering shareholder value before being entitled to receive any of their awards irrespective of general market conditions.
General The Remuneration Committee will satisfy itself that the recorded TSR is a genuine reection of the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Measurement The Remuneration Committee determines whether the performance conditions for share awards or options are satisfied.
Where performance requirements are based on EPS the Committee will use the principles behind the audited gures disclosed in the Companys financial statements, and may take advice from independent advisors as to whether any adjustments are required to ensure consistency in accordance with the terms of the performance conditions.
Where the performance measure is TSR, Halliwell Consulting, the Remuneration Committees advisors, will calculate the TSR in accordance with agreed principles.
Dilution The current operation of the Companys share plans is within the ABI limits on both an annual and rolling basis for all share plans and discretionary share plans.
Shareholding requirement Senior management, Executive Directors and members of the Operating Board who have been selected to participate in the ASB, Option Schemes and LTIP will be required to retain a proportion of the share awards released or options exercised each year to build up the shareholding requirement over a five-year period.
The following table shows the minimum shareholding requirement as a percentage of salary which participants will be required to build up over a five-year period from March 2004: Position % of salary at end of five year period Brent Hoberman CEO 250% David Howell CFO 200% Ian McCaig COO 200% When considering whether the participant has met the minimum shareholding requirement the Remuneration Committee will take into account all shares held by the Executive Director.
Participants will only be required to meet the minimum shareholding requirement from shares provided through the Company share arrangements.
Pension In line with the standard employee package, the Company provides each Executive Director with a salary supplement of 14% of basic salary, which may be taken by way of a contribution to their individual pension arrangements.
Benefits in kind Benets comprise life assurance, permanent health and private medical insurance.
Other remuneration matters SAYE Scheme The Company operates an Inland Revenue approved savings related share option scheme for the benefit of Group employees.
Eligible employees, including Executive Directors and Operating Board members, may be granted options over the Companys shares at a discount of up to 20% to the prevailing market price at the time of grant of the option, which subject to certain conditions can be exercised after either three or five years.
Approximately 12% of eligible Group employees currently participate in the Scheme.
com plc Share Incentive Plan SIP Shareholders approved a standard Inland Revenue approved SIP at the 2004 AGM.
The Company has not operated the SIP during the year.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Executive Directors Contracts Details of the service contracts of the Executive Directors of the Company are as follows: Potential Potential Potential Company Unexpired term of termination payment upon payment in event Name notice period Contract date contract months payment company takeover of liquidation Brent Hoberman CEO 6 months 24 February 2000 Rolling Contract 6 months notice Nil Nil David Howell CFO 6 months 21 June 2001 Rolling Contract 6 months notice Nil Nil Ian McCaig COO 6 months 1 August 2003 Rolling Contract 6 months notice Nil Nil There are no special provisions in service contracts relating to cessation of employment or change of control.
The policy on termination is that the Company does not make payments beyond its contractual obligations and Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee ensures that there have been no unjustified payments for failure.
None of the Executive Directors contracts provides for liquidated damages.
Non-Executive Directors All Non-Executive Directors have letters of engagement from the Company and their remuneration is determined by the Board based upon recommendations from the Chairman and Chief Executive or, in the case of the Chairman, based on recommendations from the Remuneration Committee and the Chief Executive and is within the limits set by the Articles of Association.
During the year Allan Leighton received reimbursement for reasonable expenses.
Sven Boinet, Brian Collie, Bob Collier, Martha Lane Fox and Agns Touraine received fees of 20,000.
Until 2001, the Company granted options to certain Non-Executive Directors in lieu of cash fees.
Details of options granted to NonExecutive Directors are set out on page 15.
From 2001, the Companys policy has been that Non-Executive Directors are no longer able to participate in any bonus plan or share incentive programme operated by the Company and are not entitled to pension contributions or other benets provided by the Company.
Details of the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Name Company notice period Contract date Alan Barber None 16 September 2004 Sven Boinet None 5 August 2003 Brian Collie None 24 February 2000 Bob Collier None 24 February 2000 Martha Lane Fox None 1 January 2004 Allan Leighton None 10 October 2000 Agnes Touraine None 28 May 2003 Under the Companys Articles of Association, each Director is required to submit themselves for re-election every three years.
The Board has determined that the basis of appointment for all Non-Executive Directors will be that they will ordinarily serve two three year terms, but that any additional three year terms may be agreed by the Board on a case-by-case basis.
Total Shareholder Return performance graph The graph shows the Companys performance, measured by TSR, compared with the constituents of the FTSE 350 Retail Index and the Comparator Group.
The Remuneration Committee consider the constituents of the Index and Comparator Group a relevant index for TSR comparison and that the Retail Index members are the appropriate broad group of UK quoted companies comparable to the Company.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 13 Summary Directors remuneration report continued Directors interest in shares The interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company at 30 September 2003 or their date of appointment if later and 30 September 2004 were as follows: 30 September 2003 30 September 2004 or date of appointment Name Number Number Alan Barber 20,000 Brian Collie 19,155 19,155 Bob Collier 344,156 13,157 Brent Hoberman 15,836,133 15,836,133 Martha Lane-Fox 8,207,879 10,207,879 Allan Leighton 197,273 197,273 With the exceptions of interest over options and other share incentive awards set out on page 15, no other director has any interest in ordinary shares.
Audited information Directors remuneration The remuneration of the Directors was as follows: Cash supplement in lieu of pensions Basic salary pension Termination Total Total and fees contributions Bonus Benets payments 2004 2003 Executive Directors: Brent Hoberman 187,500 26,250 454 214,204 223,762 David Howell 155,000 21,700 184 176,884 208,862 1 Ian McCaig 141,500 19,810 368 161,678 25,650 2 Clive Jacobs 111,750 26,343 111,750 39,371 79,500 368,714 197,565 Non-Executive Directors: 3 Martha Lane Fox 44,256 4,096 227 48,579 208,924 Bob Collier 20,000 20,000 20,000 Brian Collie 20,000 20,000 20,000 Agns Touraine 20,000 20,000 3,333 Sven Boinet 20,000 20,000 3,333 Alan Barber 1,458 1,458 Total Directors remuneration 721,464 98,199 111,750 40,604 79,500 1,051,517 911,429 Notes in relation to the above table of remuneration 1 The total amount paid to Ian McCaig during 2003 relates to remuneration prior to his appointment as a Director for the period 1 August 2004 to 30 September 2004.
2 The amounts paid to Clive Jacobs on the termination of his contract amounted to payment of salary and benets in lieu of notice under his contract, which was six months.
No additional payments above this contractual amount were paid.
3 The remuneration for Martha Lane Fox includes salary, cash supplement in lieu of pensions and benets during the period of her employment from 1 October 2003 to 31 December 2003: she also received Non-executive Director fees of 15,000 for the period 1 January 2004 to 30 September 2004.
Other than as stated above, the Company does not remunerate any other Director for services on the Board of Directors or any Committee of the Board.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Share incentives The Directors interests in share awards over ordinary shares held during the year, including those granted and lapsed were as follows: Long Term Incentive Plan Awards: Date of holding period when Director LTIP Award shares may be released Brent Hoberman 77,092 4 March 2007 David Howell 66,079 4 March 2007 1 Clive Jacobs 65,638 4 March 2007 Ian McCaig 59,471 4 March 2007 1 On 30 June 2004, Clive Jacobs LTIP award lapsed upon his cessation as a Director.
All of the above awards were granted for nil consideration.
a. over the holding period for 20% of option to vest, RPI 10% p. a. for 30% of the options to vest, with full vesting occurring for RPI 20%p.
a. straight line vesting between points 1 On 30 June 2004, Clive Jacobs options granted on 4 March 2004 lapsed upon his cessation as a Director.
2 On 20 May 2004 Bob Collier exercised 320,625 options at an exercise price of 2.31p.
The market price of the Companys shares on 20 May 2004 was 183.5p.
3 Options granted under the Non Executive Share Option Scheme 2000.
The market price of the Companys shares on 30 September 2004 was 140.0p and the high and low closing share prices during the year were 315.75p and 94.50p respectively 2003: 294.5p and 77.6p.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors since 30 September 2004.
Full details of Directors shareholdings and options are contained in the Register of Directors Interests which is kept by the Company and is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Brian Collie, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 November 2004 lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 15 Summary financial statements These summary financial statements, which comprise the summary Directors' report on page 8, the summary Directors remuneration report on pages 9 to 15 and the financial information on pages 17 to 19, are a summary of the information in the annual report and financial statements of lastminute.
They do not contain sufficient information to allow a full understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company or of the Group.
For further information, the full annual report and financial statements and the report of the auditors on these financial statements should be consulted.
Copies of the full annual report for the year ended 30 September 2004 are available, free of charge, from the Group Company Secretary, lastminute.
com plc, 39 Victoria Street, London SW1H 0EE.
The auditors have reported on the full financial statements, their report was not qualied and did not contain statements under Section 237 2 or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985.
Independent auditors statement to the shareholders of lastminute.
com plc We have examined the Groups summary financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2004 which comprise the Consolidated profit and loss account, Consolidated balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Consolidated cash ow statement and Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
To the fullest extent required by the law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual review and summary financial statements in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements within the annual review and summary financial statements with the full annual accounts, Directors report and Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the annual review and summary financial statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Basis of opinion We conducted our examination in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the summary financial statements are consistent with the full annual accounts, Directors report and Directors remuneration report of lastminute.
com plc for the year ended 30 September 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, and regulations made thereunder.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor London 25 November 2004 16 lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 30 September 2004 Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2004 2004 2004 2003 Before exceptional items Exceptional items and goodwill and goodwill amortisation amortisation 000 000 000 000 1 Total transaction value TTV 992,281 992,281 552,445 Turnover Group and share of joint ventures 440,062 440,062 190,705 Less share of joint ventures 465 465 2,311 Continuing operations: Ongoing 315,810 315,810 188,394 Acquisitions 123,787 123,787 Group turnover 439,597 439,597 188,394 Cost of sales 265,036 2,264 267,300 87,447 Gross profit 174,561 2,264 172,297 100,947 Operating costs Product development 7,451 7,451 5,900 Sales and marketing 105,138 105,138 62,966 General and administration 37,917 12,952 50,869 22,129 Operating costs before depreciation and goodwill amortisation 150,506 12,952 163,458 90,995 EBITDA 24,055 15,216 8,839 9,952 Depreciation 16,467 16,467 14,798 Goodwill amortisation 66,292 66,292 42,261 Total operating costs 166,973 79,244 246,217 148,054 Operating loss profit Continuing operations: Ongoing 11,399 77,627 89,026 47,107 Acquisitions 18,987 3,881 15,106 Group operating profit loss 7,588 81,508 73,920 47,107 Share of operating loss in joint ventures 256 256 183 Share of operating loss in associate 5 profit on disposal of associate 519 519 Goodwill amortisation arising on the investment in an associate 292 292 592 profit loss on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 7,851 81,800 73,949 47,887 Interest receivable and similar income 2,701 2,701 1,402 Interest payable and similar charges 5,996 5,996 1,222 profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 4,556 81,800 77,244 47,707 Tax on profit loss on ordinary activities 266 266 62 profit loss for the financial year and transfer to from reserves 4,822 81,800 76,978 47,645 profit loss per share basic and diluted 1.54p 26.10 p 24.56 p 17.88 p profit per share basic pre exceptional items, goodwill 2 amortisation and taxation 1.45p 1.45p 0.08p 1 TTV does not represent the Groups statutory turnover and comprises amounts relating to the Group and its share of joint ventures.
2 The additional earnings per share measures have been given to provide the reader of the accounts with a better understanding of the results.
Consolidated statement of total recognised gains and losses for the year ended 30 September 2004 Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2004 2003 000 000 Loss for the year excluding share of losses in joint ventures and associate 76,949 46,865 Share of joint ventures loss for the year 256 183 profit on disposal of associate, share of associates loss for the year and amortisation of goodwill arising on acquisition of associate 227 597 Foreign currency translation difference 1,572 2,496 Total recognised losses for the year 75,406 50,141 lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 30 September 2004 Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2004 2003 000 000 Net cash inow from operating activities 38,857 29,054 Cash outow from exceptional items and acquisition related liabilities 14,242 7,989 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Bond issue costs 2,076 Interest received 1,686 1,224 Interest paid 5,850 1,218 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 146 406 Net returns on investments and servicing of finance 4,310 2,476 Taxation Tax paid 61 Capital expenditure and financial investment Payments to acquire tangible xed assets 25,046 15,198 Net cash outow inow before acquisitions and management of liquid resources and nancing 4,802 3,391 Acquisitions Overdraft acquired with subsidiary undertakings 9,376 Cash acquired with subsidiary undertakings 20,231 1,207 Payments to acquire subsidiary undertakings joint venture 45,254 22,006 Receipts from sale of associate 1,557 Net cash outow before management of liquid resources and nancing 28,268 26,784 Management of liquid resources Increase in short term deposits 7,616 5,569 Financing Issue of bond 72,063 Issue of share capital 1,617 17,729 Repayments of capital elements of finance leases 619 939 Decrease increase in cash 34,886 56,500 Reconciliation of cash flow to movement in net funds Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2004 2003 000 000 Movement in cash 34,886 56,500 Cash inow from issue of bond 72,063 Bond issue costs 2,076 Cash outow to short term deposits 7,616 5,569 Repayments of capital elements of finance leases 619 939 Changes in net funds resulting from cashows 26,651 6,979 New finance leases 2,842 Amortisation of Eurobond issue costs 421 Writeoff of finance lease 782 Exchange difference 1,488 1,812 Net funds at the beginning of the year 41,411 49,420 Net funds at the end of the year 16,609 41,411 lastminute.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 19 Shareholder information Registered Office: 39 Victoria Street, London SW1H OEE Company number 3852152 Registrar: Our Registrar should be contacted to advise change of address and also for any enquiries relating to lost share certicates or other enquiries relating to share registration.
They can be contacted at: Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: 0870 241 8114 if calling from the UK 44 0 121 415 7555 if calling from outside the UK Fax: 0870 600 3980 if dialling from the UK 44 0 1903 702 424 if dialling from outside the UK Email: lloydstsb-registrars.
co. uk Further information is also available at http: www.
co. uk Website: Additional shareholder information including press releases can be found on the Groups Investor Relations website at www.
com plc annual review and summary financial statements 2004 Receive your lastminute.
com Summary Financial Statement online through Shareview and you could win a luxury lastminute.
com from the drop down box and click Go movements and share prices, and provides 4.
Enter your personal details your shareholder reference number is printed on your proxy card a facility to register to receive your Summary 5.
Click on email as your preferred method of Company mailings Financial Statement online.
Read and accept the terms and conditions secure and free!
Just follow the simple steps 8.
You can then add any other shareholdings you have in other below by doing so, youll automatically be PLCs to your portfolio.
Once your portfolio is complete click the entered into the New York prize draw.
Your personalised User ID will be sent by post and will give you Terms and conditions apply see below for details access to your portfolio in order to manage your shareholdings.
Prize includes return ights and 3 nights accommodation in a 5 star hotel on a bed and breakfast basis.
In the event of unforeseen circumstances the promoter reserves the right to offer an alternative prize of equal value without notice.
