London Merchant Securities plc 64 Directors and Management Chairman G C Greene CBE Mr Greene is aged 67 and was appointed a director in 1996 and Chairman in July 2000.
He is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and is a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
A current director of Greene King plc, his career has included directorships with Guinness Mahon, Guinness Peat Group plc, Jupiter International Green Investment Trust plc.
In addition he has also been a director and Chairman of a number of publishing companies.
He is a former member of the Board of the British Council and former Chairman of the Trustees of The British Museum.
Deputy Chairman P J Grant CBE Mr Grant is aged 74 and has been a director since 1984 and was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Company in 1994.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination and Audit Committees.
He has substantial experience gained through a career in banking and investment and is currently a director of BNP Paribas Holdings Limited.
He is a former Chairman of Sun Life Assurance where he served as a director for 22 years and was Deputy Chairman of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited for three years.
Other former directorships include Scottish Hydro now part of Scottish & Southern Energy plc.
Chief Executive The Hon R A Rayne The Hon R A Rayne is aged 55 and first joined the Company in 1975 when he was initially involved in the development of LMS properties in the US.
He later returned to the UK with responsibility for LMS properties in Scotland.
He was appointed Investment Director in 1983, Joint Managing Director in 1998 and Chief Executive in May 2001.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
He has been on the boards of a number of public companies including First Leisure Corporation plc and Crown Sports plc.
He is currently a non-executive director of NYSE quoted, Weatherford International Inc, an international oil services company and is Chairman of ECI Group.
Finance Director N R Friedlos Mr Friedlos is aged 46 and was appointed Finance Director in January 2003.
He was Finance Director of Land Securities Trillium and was involved in its sale to Land Securities plc in 2000.
Before joining Trillium in 1998, he worked for twelve years at  in London and Birmingham, becoming a partner at Price Waterhouse in 1992.
Director of Corporate Development M A Pexton Mr Pexton is aged 47, joined the Company in April 2002 and was appointed a director in October 2002.
He was formerly the director responsible for human resources at the international law firm Allen & Overy.
Prior to joining Allen & Overy in 1990, he worked for Deloitte, Haskins & Sells now  and in the insurance and nuclear industries.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and has an MBA from the London Business School.
Mrs J F fide Moller Mrs fide Moller is aged 56 and was appointed a director in May 2002.
She is a member of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees.
She is a non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc, Cookson Group plc and Archant Limited.
Mrs fide Moller is a former Managing Director of Carlton Communications Plc and was previously a non-executive director of BT plc for three years and AWG plc for eight years.
D Newell Mr Newell is aged 61 and was appointed a director in 1998.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
A Chartered Surveyor, he was Senior Partner of Hillier Parker May & Rowden until 1998.
He was Co-Chairman of the Europe, Middle East and Africa division of CB Richard Ellis Services, Inc until December 2000.
He is a past President of the British Council of Offices.
The Hon J M Wilson The Hon J M Wilson is aged 51 and was appointed a director in April 2001.
A founding partner and Managing Director of Boston Ventures, a leading US media and communications private equity firm, Mr Wilson brings to the board a wealth of experience in the private equity market.
He is a director of Jobson Publishing LLC, PartMiner Inc. CAMP Systems Corp, TradePower Inc. Marshall & Swift, Northstar Travel Media and World Publications.
Company Secretary S C Mitchley ACIS Group Property Manager N T J Groves BA MRICS Group Accountant J M Townley BA ACA
