London Merchant Securities plc 25 Payment of suppliers The Group does not have a formal policy for the payment of suppliers.
However, most invoices are paid within 28 days of receipt.
The amounts owed by the Company to suppliers at 31st March 2004 represented some 24 days purchases.
Auditors A resolution concerning the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and their remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
Political and charitable donations It is the Groups policy not to make donations to the funds of political parties.
The Groups main charitable contribution is through its support to The Rayne Foundation, which makes donations to charities independently of the Group.
During the year the Group made charitable donations of 7,500.
Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following material interests of 3% or more of its share capital at 24th May 2004.
Includes common interests held by The Estate of Lord Rayne and the Trustees of the Rayne Foundation.
The Company has not been notified of any non-material interests of 10% or more of its share capital at 24th May 2004.
By order of the Board Simon Mitchley Company Secretary 8th June 2004 Directors Responsibility Statement Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
