Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
Special business An explanation of the special business is given in the If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should consult Directors Report on pages 49 to 52. immediately your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant To consider and if thought fit pass the following Resolutions of which or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Resolutions 11, 12, and 13 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and Services and Markets Act 2000.
Resolutions 14, 15 and 16 will be proposed as Special Resolutions: If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your shares in the Company, Resolution 11 That the rules of the Compass Group PLC Share please send this document and the accompanying documents to the Bonus Matching Plan the Matching Plan, the draft rules of which are purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through produced to this meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser identification, be approved and that the directors be authorised to take all or transferee.
actions which they consider necessary or expedient in connection with the Notice is hereby given that the fourth Annual General Meeting of Compass implementation of the Matching Plan.
Group PLC will be held in the Fleming Room at the Queen Elizabeth II Resolution 12 That the Company and any company which is or becomes Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE a subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this resolution on Monday 14 February 2005 at 11.00am in order to transact the following relates be and is hereby authorised to: business: i make donations to EU political organisations and Routine business ii incur EU political expenditure during the period commencing on the Resolution 1 To receive and adopt the financial statements of the date of this Resolution and ending on the date of the Companys Company for the financial year ended 30 September 2004 and the reports next Annual General Meeting provided that any such donations and of the directors and auditors thereon.
expenditure made by the Company together with those made by any subsidiary company while it is a subsidiary of the Company shall not Resolution 2 To approve the Remuneration Committees Report for the exceed in aggregate 125,000 during that period.
For the purposes financial year ended 30 September 2004. of this Resolution, the terms donations, EU political organisations and EU political expenditure shall have the meanings given to them in Resolution 3 To declare a final dividend on the Companys ordinary section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Political shares for the financial year ended 30 September 2004.
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Resolution 4 To elect Steve Lucas as a director see note v on Resolution 13 That, pursuant to section 121 2 e of the Companies page 98.
Act 1985 and article 41 d of the Companys articles of association, Resolution 5 To elect Andrew Martin as a director.
each authorised but unissued non-voting redeemable preference share of 1 in the capital of the Company be cancelled so as to reduce the Resolution 6 To re-elect Peter Cawdron as a director see note vi on authorised share capital from 300,050,998 to 300,001,000 divided into page 98.
3,000,010,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Resolution 7 To re-elect Alain Dupuis as a director.
Resolution 14 That the regulations in the form of the print produced to the Resolution 8 To re-elect Val Gooding as a director see note vii on meeting and signed by the Chairman for the purposes of identification, be page 98. adopted as the new articles of association of the Company to replace in their entirety the existing articles of association of the Company with effect Resolution 9 To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors.
from the end of the meeting or any adjournment of it.
Resolution 10 To authorise the directors to determine the auditors Resolution 15 That the directors be and are hereby generally empowered remuneration.
pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 and section 94 3A of that Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the Ordinary Resolution passed as Resolution 7 at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 15 February 2002 as if section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such allotment.
This power: a shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 13 May 2006 if earlier, save that the Company may make an offer or agreement before the expiry of this power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after expiry of this power and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of that offer or agreement as if this power had not expired: and b shall be limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with an issue to holders of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company in proportion as nearly as may be to their existing holdings of such ordinary shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and Compass Group PLC 97 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above i A member entitled to attend and vote at the 2005 Annual General Meeting the of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and on a poll vote on his her 10.7 million consisting of 107 million ordinary shares of 10 behalf.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
pence each in the capital of the Company.
ii A form of proxy for use in relation to the Meeting is enclosed with this report.
To be effective the form of proxy must be completed in accordance with the instructions set This power applies in relation to a sale of shares which is an allotment out therein and lodged at the office of the Registrars of the Company by 11.00am on Saturday 12 February 2005.
Return of the form of proxy will not preclude a member of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Companies Act from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you are a user of the CREST 1985 as if in the first paragraph of this resolution the words pursuant system including CREST Personal Members, you may appoint your proxy or proxies to the authority conferred by the Ordinary Resolution passed as by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted.
To appoint a proxy or to give Resolution 7 at the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 11.00am on Saturday 15 February 2002 were omitted.
Please note, however, that proxy messages can not be sent through Resolution 16 That the directors be and are hereby generally and CREST on weekends, bank holidays or after 8.00pm on any other day.
For the purpose of this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the unconditionally authorised, pursuant to Article 45 of the Companys timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Articles of Association and in accordance with section 166 of the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
CREST Personal Members or other Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning CREST sponsored members and those CREST members that have appointed voting of section 163 of that Act of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in the service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST capital of the Company subject to the following conditions: procedures, limitations and system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
We may i the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in authorised to be purchased is 215,540,302 representing 10% Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members 30 November 2004: of the Company as at 6.00pm on 12 February 2005, or in the event that the Meeting ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for is adjourned, in the Register of Members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned each ordinary share is 10 pence: meeting, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00pm on 12 February 2005 or, in the event that the Meeting is each ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average adjourned, less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five iv Biographical details of directors standing for election and re-election at the Meeting business days immediately preceding the day on which the are set out on page 44. v It is the Boards intention to comply with the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate purchase is made: Governance and in this respect Steve Lucas was appointed as a non-executive iv without prejudice to paragraph v below, the authority hereby director in July 2004 and in accordance with the Articles of Association he is standing conferred unless previously varied or revoked, shall expire at the for election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting resolution 4.
Steve is a very conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or successful and respected businessman.
He is enthusiastic and has demonstrated great commitment to the Company since joining the Board.
His financial experience 13 August 2006, whichever is the earlier: and is particularly relevant in view of the intention to appoint him Chairman of the Audit v the Company may make a contract or contracts to purchase Committee following the retirement of Peter Cawdron from that position at the ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the conclusion of the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or vi In accordance with the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Peter Cawdron is required, with effect from the Companys Annual General Meeting to be partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase held in 2006, to seek re-election annually.
Nevertheless and as noted above, it is the of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract or contracts.
Boards intention to comply with the 2003 Combined Code and thus Peter Cawdron has decided to stand for re-election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, a year earlier By Order of the Board than is required under the 2003 Combined Code resolution 6.
Sir Francis Mackay has no hesitation in confirming that Peter remains fully focused and committed in all respects to his role as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman.
Ronald Morley vii In accordance with the Articles of Association, Val Gooding is standing for re-election Company Secretary at the 2005 Annual General Meeting resolution 8.
Sir Francis Mackay is delighted 29 December 2004 to confirm that Val continues to devote the time necessary to remain fully effective and committed to her role as a non-executive director and member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees.
Registered Office: viii Copies of the service contracts of the executive directors, the letters of appointment Compass House, Guildford Street, of the non-executive directors and the Register of Directors Interests will be available Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ for inspection during normal business hours from the date of dispatch of this notice until the date of the Meeting Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the Please refer to the notes opposite registered office of the Company and will also be made available at the Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the Meeting.
ix The Companys current Articles of Association, the proposed draft of the new Articles of Association and the rules of the Share Bonus Matching Plan will be available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of dispatch of this notice until the close of the Meeting at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, 65 Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HS and will also be made available at the Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the Meeting.
