International Financial Reporting Standards Following the European Unions adoption The following areas that could impact Compass Under the IFRS transition rules, IAS 39 and Under UK GAAP, Under SSAP 17 The Group occupies a number of of Regulation EC No 1606 2002, all publicly Groups financial statements have been IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure the cost of share options is based on the Accounting for Post Balance Sheet Events, leased properties.
IAS 17 Leases IAS 17 listed companies in the EU will be required identified.
This summary is not intended to be and Presentation IAS 32 will apply to the intrinsic value of the option at the date of proposed dividends are accrued for as an states that the land and buildings elements to adopt International Financial Reporting a complete list of areas.
Further differences accounting period beginning on 1 October grant, such that options granted to employees adjusting post balance sheet event in the of a lease of land and buildings should be Standards IFRS including revised may arise as a result of the Groups continued 2005 with no requirement for comparative at market price or under Inland Revenue accounting period to which they relate.
Under considered separately for the purposes of International Accounting Standards IAS, detailed assessment and interpretations of information in the period to 30 September approved SAYE or equivalent overseas IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, lease classification.
The Group is assessing in issue at 31 March 2004, for their financial IFRS and any pronouncements issued by the 2005.
However, the Group intends to apply schemes do not generate an expense.
Under dividends are recognised in the accounting whether the buildings element of certain statements from 2005.
Consequently the International Accounting Standards Board the requirements of IAS 32 and IAS 39 to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, the Group period in which they are declared.
Accordingly, property leases, currently treated as operating Group will be implementing IFRS from IASB.
In addition, the Group may elect to the comparative period, although hedge is required to measure the cost of all share the Group will not recognise the accrual for its leases under UK GAAP, should be capitalised 1 October 2005. adopt early any further accounting standards accounting treatment will not be available for options granted since 7 November 2002 2004 final dividend in its 2004 IFRS balance as finance leases in accordance with the issued by the IASB before the publication of its all material foreign currency borrowings and using option pricing models.
As a result of the sheet and will report it in the consolidated IFRS requirements of IAS 17.
The first financial information to be reported first consolidated IFRS financial statements.
derivative contracts for 2005. above, and in respect of other share-based statement of changes in equity for the period by the Group in accordance with IFRS will payments, an additional non-cash expense will ending 30 September 2005. be for the six months ending 31 March 2006 Financial instruments The Groups policy is From 1 October 2005, the Group will aim to be recognised in the consolidated IFRS income but the requirement to present comparative to match its principal projected cash flows by achieve hedge accounting treatment for all statement.
Under UK GAAP, information means that a balance sheet as at currency to actual or effective borrowings in the material foreign currency borrowings and, an undertaking is treated as a subsidiary for 30 September 2004 and primary statements for same currency.
Where necessary it uses cross wherever possible, for its interest rate hedges.
accounting purposes in circumstances where the six months to 31 March 2005 and the year currency swaps and forward foreign exchange Under UK GAAP, the Group currently the parent has the ability to direct the operating to 30 September 2005, prepared in accordance contracts to achieve this.
The Group also uses Goodwill Under UK GAAP, the Groups accounts for defined benefit pension schemes and financial policies of that entity with a with IFRS, will also be required.
The Group will interest rate swaps to achieve its policy that at policy is to capitalise goodwill in respect of in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for view to gaining economic benefits from its continue to report its consolidated financial least 80% of projected debt is fixed for the first businesses acquired and amortise it on a Pension Costs SSAP 24.
IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate statements in accordance with UK GAAP for year, reducing to 60% fixed for the second year straight-line basis over its estimated useful reports in note 22 to the financial statements Financial Statements IAS 27 defines a the year to 30 September 2005. and 40% fixed for the third year.
economic life, which has been assessed as the transitional disclosures required in subsidiary on the basis of the legal form of 20 years for all acquisitions to date.
accordance with FRS 17 Retirement Benefits arrangements determining control over its Compass has established a project steering Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: FRS 17, including the adjustment from the financial and operating policies.
Accordingly, committee to co-ordinate the transition to Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, all On transition to IFRS, IFRS 1 First-time figures reported under SSAP 24 which would the Group is considering whether its interests IFRS and a dedicated project team has been derivative instruments are measured at fair Adoption of International Financial Reporting be required if FRS 17 was adopted in the in certain companies will continue to qualify as established to study the effects on the Groups value.
The Group will be required to designate Standards IFRS 1 requires the Group to financial statements.
subsidiaries under IAS 27. accounts of adopting IFRS.
The team has its foreign currency borrowings and derivative review the carrying value of capitalised goodwill been following a three-phase transition plan: contracts as hedges of specific assets, at 30 September 2004 for potential impairment.
The methodology and assumptions used Under IAS 12 Income Taxes preliminary assessment, detailed impact study liabilities, income and or expenses.
Due to the In accordance with IFRS 3 Business to calculate the value of pension assets and IAS 12, certain temporary timing differences, and implementation.
It provides the project non-IFRS compliant nature of certain historic Combinations, no amortisation of goodwill liabilities under FRS 17 are substantially for example in respect of rollover relief and steering committee and the audit committee instruments still in place, the Group may not will be charged in the Groups consolidated consistent with the requirements of IAS 19 revaluation gains that previously were not with regular updates of its progress and also be able to designate all of its existing foreign IFRS income statement from 1 October 2004.
One area of recognised under UK GAAP, will be recognised.
works closely with the divisional teams through currency borrowings and derivative contracts Instead annual reviews of the goodwill will be difference that may impact the adjustment In addition, the discounting of deferred tax a network of key contacts.
as hedges in accordance with IAS 39. performed to test for potential impairment.
from FRS 17 to IAS 19 relates to the valuation balances, permitted under UK GAAP by FRS 19 of pension fund assets.
Under FRS 17, Deferred Tax and adopted by the Group, is not The Group is continuing to perform a detailed Where the Group is able to designate its foreign equities are valued using mid-market prices allowed by IAS 12. assessment of the impact of IFRS on its currency borrowings and derivative contracts at valuation date whereas IAS 19 requires the accounting policies and published financial as hedges, the effectiveness of each hedge use of bid prices.
IAS 12 does however permit the recognition in statements.
will be tested against stringent defined criteria.
the income statement of tax relief on goodwill If the hedges are effective, hedge accounting arising on acquisitions that was written off treatment will be achieved and the change in to profit and loss reserve under UK GAAP value of the effective portion of the hedges prior to 1 October 1998.
Accordingly, under recognised as a movement in reserves.
All IFRS, the Group expects to maintain in the other changes in value of foreign currency income statement the tax benefit of goodwill borrowings and derivative contracts will amortisation in line with amounts currently be recognised in the income statement for recognised as discounting under UK GAAP.
46 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 47 Following the European Unions adoption The following areas that could impact Compass Under the IFRS transition rules, IAS 39 and Share-based payments Under UK GAAP, Proposed dividends Under SSAP 17 Leases The Group occupies a number of of Regulation EC No 1606 2002, all publicly Groups financial statements have been IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure the cost of share options is based on the Accounting for Post Balance Sheet Events, leased properties.
derivative contracts for 2005. above, and in respect of other share-based statement of changes in equity for the period by the Group in accordance with IFRS will payments, an additional non-cash expense will ending 30 September 2005. be for the six months ending 31 March 2006 The Groups policy is From 1 October 2005, the Group will aim to be recognised in the consolidated IFRS income but the requirement to present comparative to match its principal projected cash flows by achieve hedge accounting treatment for all statement.
Subsidiary companies Under UK GAAP, information means that a balance sheet as at currency to actual or effective borrowings in the material foreign currency borrowings and, an undertaking is treated as a subsidiary for 30 September 2004 and primary statements for same currency.
Post-employment benefit schemes accounting purposes in circumstances where the six months to 31 March 2005 and the year currency swaps and forward foreign exchange Under UK GAAP, the Group currently the parent has the ability to direct the operating to 30 September 2005, prepared in accordance contracts to achieve this.
The Group also uses Under UK GAAP, the Groups accounts for defined benefit pension schemes and financial policies of that entity with a with IFRS, will also be required.
The methodology and assumptions used Deferred tax Under IAS 12 Income Taxes preliminary assessment, detailed impact study liabilities, income and or expenses.
46 Compass Group PLC Compass Group PLC 47 2004 Financial Statements Contents 49 Directors Report 53 Corporate Governance 55 Directors Responsibilities 56 Remuneration Committees Report 65 Auditors Report 66 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 67 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 67 Reconciliation of Movements in Consolidated Shareholders Funds 68 Consolidated Balance Sheet 69 Company Balance Sheet 70 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 71 Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 73 Notes to the Financial Statements 48 Compass Group PLC Directors Report The directors present their annual report and the audited financial A profile of shareholdings in the capital of the Company is set out statements for the year ended 30 September 2004. on page 99.
Activities, results and future prospects The Groups trading results, Political and charitable donations Charitable donations for the future prospects and operating company activities are described in detail year amounted to 1,217,000.
There were no donations for political in the Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review, the review of purposes but because the full extent of current UK legislation in this operations, the financial review and the financial statements.
The Group area is uncertain, the directors will once again propose a resolution on agreed to increase its shareholding in Onama S. p. A. in December 2004 a precautionary basis at the 2005 Annual General Meeting to authorise as disclosed in note 26 to the financial statements.
Further details are given on page 51.
Directors Details of the directors of the Company are set out on Employees The Group is committed to an active policy of equal page 44.
All the directors served throughout the year with the exception opportunity from selection and recruitment, through training and of Andrew Martin and Steve Lucas.
They were appointed to the Board on development, appraisal and promotion to retirement.
Accordingly, they retire and The policy promotes an environment free from discrimination, harassment offer themselves for election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Alain and victimisation where all employees can receive equal treatment Dupuis and Val Gooding retire from the Board by rotation.
In accordance regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, with the revised Code on Corporate Governance, Denis Cassidy and marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
Peter Cawdron are subject to annual retirement.
Alain Dupuis, Val Gooding and Peter Cawdron being eligible offer themselves for reThe policy gives full and fair consideration to the recruitment of disabled election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Denis Cassidy has decided persons.
Where disabled persons are employed their training including not to seek re-election and will retire from the Board at the conclusion of retraining for alternative work for employees that become disabled and the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
development for promotion are encouraged and assisted.
Expert advice is taken on the needs of disabled employees and special equipment is Directors interests Details of the interests of the directors holding provided where appropriate.
office at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company Group personnel policies ensure that all employees are made aware are set out in the Remuneration Committees Report on pages 56 to on a regular basis of the Groups policies, programmes and progress.
None of the directors had any interests in the shares of any of the Extensive use is made of briefing meetings, in-house magazines, notice Companys subsidiaries at any time during the year.
None of the directors boards and other communications channels including Mercury, the had a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company Groups global intranet.
Mercury facilitates the capturing and sharing of or any of its subsidiary undertakings during the year.
information and knowledge and provides an important link to the Groups employees worldwide.
The Company operates a range of employee Dividends and results A final dividend on the ordinary shares is share schemes and they are described in the Remuneration Committees proposed for the year ended 30 September 2004 of 6.2 pence per share Report on pages 56 to 64. which together with the interim dividend paid of 3.1 pence per share makes a total for the period of 9.3 pence per share 2003: 8.4 pence per Environment Information relating to the Companys responsibilities share.
Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the 2005 Annual towards the environment is given on pages 39 to 41.
General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 14 March 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 February 2005.
Auditors In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 16 February 2005.
Committee as disclosed on page 54, Resolution 9 set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting relating to the re-appointment of Deloitte Acquisition of Compass Group shares During the year the Company & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the 2005 completed the 300 million on market share buy-back programme Annual General Meeting.
announced in February 2003 with the purchase and cancellation of 18,861,000 ordinary shares in the Company 2003: 71,366,000 ordinary Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on shares for a consideration of 69 million including costs 2003: 233 Monday 14 February 2005 at 11.00am in the Fleming Room at the Queen million.
Further details are set out in note 19 to the financial statements Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London on page 85.
Notice of the meeting is set out in pages 97 and 98 and an explanation of the special business to be considered at the meeting is set Payments to suppliers The Groups policy and procedure which out below.
is internally rather than externally set in relation to all its suppliers is to settle the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the Share Bonus Matching Plan Resolution 11 The Company operates terms of each transaction.
The Group will abide by those terms provided a share bonus matching arrangement, described in the Remuneration that it is satisfied that the supplier has supplied the goods or services in Committees Report on pages 56 to 64, which is not currently subject accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The number of days to performance criteria.
For 2005 and thereafter, the Remuneration purchases outstanding for payment by the Group as at 30 September Committee has decided to recommend the introduction of the Companys 2004 was 58 days 2003: 70 days.
new Share Bonus Matching Plan the Matching Plan which will be subject to performance criteria.
The key features of the Matching Plan are Substantial shareholdings As at 30 November 2004 the Company summarised below.
Under the Listing Rules, shareholder approval of the had received notification of material interests in its issued ordinary share Matching Plan is required where performance criteria apply.
Accordingly, capital from the following.
Resolution 11, which is being proposed as an Ordinary Resolution, seeks No.
of shares m % of issued capital to approve the Matching Plan.
Franklin Resources, Inc. and its affiliates 87.0 4.0 Barclays PLC 66.6 3.1 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited 64.7 3.0 Compass Group PLC 49 Directors Report continued Summary of the Matching Plan If a leaver loses his entitlement to Matching Shares, he will still retain his Purchased Shares.
Eligibility From 2005, executive directors and other senior executives that participate in an annual bonus plan operated by the Company Change of control In the event of a change of control, performance will be eligible to participate in the Matching Plan at the discretion of will be measured to the date of the change of control and Matching the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
Participation in the Shares will vest on the basis of performance up to the time of the change Matching Plan is at nil consideration.
No awards will be made within six of control.
The Committee will have discretion to adjust the vesting level months of an executives anticipated retirement and no invitations to if it considers that the performance condition would have been met to participate may be made more than 10 years following the date on which a greater or lesser extent at the end of the full three-year performance the Matching Plan is approved by shareholders.
Any internal reorganisation to create a new holding company will not result Share awards Under the Matching Plan, participants will be able to in the accelerated vesting of the Matching Shares which will be replaced invest either directly or via associates such as family trusts up to 50% by awards over shares in the new holding company unless the Committee of their annual bonus and enhanced bonus in both cases, on a pre-tax determines otherwise.
basis in Compass shares the Purchased Shares.
If the participant remains in service for three years, he will, subject to the satisfaction of Adjustment of Matching Shares If there is a variation in the share the performance condition, be eligible to receive a one-for-one matching capital of the Company including without limitation a capitalisation issue, share award based on the pre-tax amount of the bonus that has been rights or bonus issue or sub-division or consolidation of share capital, or a invested.
Awards made under the Matching Plan are referred to as reduction of capital, or in the event of a demerger or payment of a special Matching Shares.
dividend, the Matching Shares may be adjusted to reflect that variation.
At the end of the three year period, the Matching Shares will be released to the participant.
Matching Shares will not be released to participants Rights attaching to shares A participant will not have any voting or under the Matching Plan unless the performance condition is met.
During dividend rights prior to the vesting of the Matching Shares.
All Matching the holding period, participants will be treated as the beneficial owners Shares allotted under the Matching Plan will carry the same rights as any of the Purchased Shares and will be entitled to the receipt of dividends.
other issued ordinary shares in the Company and application will be made for the Matching Shares to be listed by the UK Listing Authority and traded Performance condition The Matching Shares are only awarded after on the London Stock Exchange.
three years if the following criteria have been achieved: 50% of Matching Benefits received under the Matching Plan are not pensionable and may Shares awarded if underlying earnings per share EPS growth over the not be assigned or transferred except on a participants death.
three year performance period is at least an average of RPI 4% per annum: 75% of Matching Shares awarded at RPI 6% per annum: and Alterations to the Matching Plan The Committee will have power 100% Matching Shares awarded at RPI 8% per annum.
Where growth to amend the rules of the Matching Plan, provided that no amendment is between RPI 4% and RPI 8%, the number of Matching Shares will to the advantage of participants or eligible employees may be made to be awarded on a straight line basis.
No shares will be awarded if EPS provisions relating to the key features of the Matching Plan without the growth is less than RPI 4%.
There will be no performance retest.
The prior approval of shareholders in general meeting unless the amendment Committee reserves the right to vary this performance target for future is minor and made to benefit the administration of the Matching Plan, to grants provided that in its reasonable judgement the new target is no take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable less challenging in the light of the Groups business circumstances and tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment.
Key features are: who internal forecasts.
If the performance condition is met, the Matching can be a participant, the limits on the number of shares which can be Shares will vest.
Participants are entitled to call for the Matching Shares issued under the Matching Plan, the basis for determining a participants within 12 months after the end of the holding period, otherwise the entitlement to shares, and the terms on which they can be acquired, and Matching Shares will lapse.
the provisions relating to adjustments in the event of a variation in the Companys share capital.
Cessation of employment A leavers entitlement to Matching Shares will lapse if he leaves the Companys employment, unless he leaves by Additional schedules to the rules can be established to operate the reason of death, disability, retirement either at or after normal or agreed Matching Plan outside the UK.
These schedules can vary the rules of the retirement date, or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Matching Plan to take account of any securities, exchange control or Committee good leavers.
Investments in Purchased Shares by good leavers will remain eligible Limits on the issue of shares The Matching Plan will be subject to the for Matching Shares provided the Purchased Shares are held at the limit that, in any ten-year period, not more than 10 per cent of the issued end of the relevant performance period and the performance condition ordinary share capital of the Company from time to time may be issued described above has been met.
However, the number of Matching Shares or issuable under all the Companys share plans.
The Committee will will normally be pro-rated on the basis of actual service within the three adopt appropriate policies to ensure that sufficient shares are available financial years constituting the performance period.
Exceptionally for for these plans throughout the ten-year period, and may purchase shares example, if a participant is terminally ill, the Committee may release in the market if desirable.
The Committee may use treasury shares for the Matching Shares early.
In the case of retirees, the Committee may purposes of the Matching Plan.
moderate the application of the pro rata reduction if it considers that the participants contribution to the business would not be fully recognised Where Matching Shares are satisfied using existing shares, these will be if the Matching Share entitlement was scaled down in the manner held in a discretionary employee benefits trust.
The trust will also have described above.
the facility to subscribe for new shares within the limits referred above.
The trust will not in any event hold more than 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
50 Compass Group PLC Directors Report continued Donations to EU political organisations Resolution 12 It is Electronic Communications Proposed changes: amendments not Compass Group policy to make donations to political parties.
and additions to the definitions in Current Article 2 and amendments Nevertheless, following enactment of the Political Parties, Elections to Current Articles 3, 12.1, 51.5, 52.1, 58, 76-79, 81, 98, 123, 148-153.2 and Referendums Act 2000 it is possible that certain routine activities New Articles 3, 20, 71 b, 73, 81, 104-109, 111, 128, 157 and 191-205 undertaken by the Company and its subsidiaries might come within the Since the adoption of the Current Articles, company law has evolved broad scope of the Act.
Any expenditure that is regulated under this Act to facilitate the greater use of electronic communications between must first be approved by shareholders.
In order to avoid inadvertent companies and shareholders.
The Current Articles do not fully provide infringement of the Act, Resolution 12, which will be proposed as an the Company with the flexibility to do this, nor do they adequately Ordinary Resolution, seeks to give the directors authority, until the anticipate any future technological developments that the Company Annual General Meeting to be held in 2006, to make donations and incur may wish to utilise.
expenditure which might otherwise be caught by the terms of the Act up The proposed changes contained in the New Articles rectify this to an aggregate amount of 125,000. situation and will allow the Company to take advantage of new methods of electronic communication.
The New Articles include alterations to Amendment to Authorised Share Capital Resolution 13 the relevant definitions and interpretation articles and clarify the ability The issued non-voting redeemable preference share capital in the of shareholders and classes of shareholders to communicate with Company has been redeemed entirely and accordingly Resolution 13, the Company, including submitting proxies, and for the Company to which will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution, seeks to cancel the communicate with shareholders by electronic means where this is authorised but unissued shares forming this class of capital.
The effect permitted by the directors.
The New Articles enable the Board to make will be to reduce the authorised share capital of the Company from greater use of electronic methods of communication and also provide 300,050,998 to 300,001,000 divided into 3,000,010,000 ordinary for the possibility of communications made through the Company shares of 10 pence each.
Consequential amendments are made to the proxy and notice provisions of the Current Articles to provide for appropriate electronic Amendment to Articles of Association Resolution 14 The current communications procedures.
articles of association of the Company have not been altered since they were adopted in November 2000 the Current Articles.
In light Uncertificated Shareholdings CREST Proposed changes: of changes since that time to company law and standards of corporate amendments to certain definitions in Current Article 2 and governance and in order to allow the Company to make greater use amendments to Current Articles 6.3, 25, 34, 134 and 141.4 of electronic methods of communication, the directors propose that New Articles 10, 36, 46, 171 and 183 changes should be made to the Current Articles to bring them up to The Current Articles provide for shareholders to hold their shares in the date.
Accordingly, Resolution 14, which will be proposed as a Special Company in uncertificated form e. g. through CREST on the basis of the Resolution, seeks to make these changes by adopting new articles of Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995.
These regulations have since association for the Company the New Articles.
The principal changes been superseded by the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and to the Current Articles are summarised below.
so amendments are proposed in the New Articles to reflect this change.
Redeemable Preference Shares Proposed changes: deletion of The New Articles include up to date terminology and references to the Current Article 4 and the definition of LIBOR in Current Article 2 Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, provide the Company The Companys current authorised share capital is 300,050,998 with the power to require the conversion of an uncertificated share into consisting of 3,000,001,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each and 49,998 certificated form in accordance with company law and the New Articles non-voting redeemable preference shares of 1 each.
The redeemable and clarify the procedure for the payment of dividends through CREST.
preference shares were issued as part of the Compass Granada merger and demerger and have now been entirely redeemed and cancelled.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors Proposed changes: As they no longer exist for legal or practical purposes, there is no need amendments to Current Articles 109-110 New Articles 140-141 to provide for their mechanics of issue and redemption.
It is therefore The Current Articles contain a limit of 250,000 on the aggregate amount proposed that the relevant provision be deleted from the New Articles.
of remuneration that may be paid to the non-executive directors.
The A separate resolution Resolution 13 is being proposed at the 2005 proposed limit in the New Articles is 500,000 which the directors believe Annual General Meeting so that the Companys authorised share capital is comparable to other listed companies of a similar size and nature to reflects the redemption and cancellation of this class of share capital.
The directors believe that it is appropriate to increase the limit in the Current Articles in light of the increase in the expected time Treasury Shares Proposed changes: amendments to Current commitments and corporate governance and other responsibilities of the Articles 7, 12.1, 45, 47, 59, 71.1 b, 125.1 and 144 New Articles 11-15, Companys non-executive directors and the need to offer competitive 20, 58, 60, 82, 94 b, 159 and 186 h rates of remuneration to attract and retain highly qualified non-executive At the Annual General Meeting held in 2004, resolutions were passed as directors.
The limit in the Current Articles has not been renewed since a result of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares the Current Articles were adopted in November 2000 and at present Regulations 2003, which allow the Company to hold shares repurchased there is no headroom available to the Company to allow for any further by it in treasury treasury shares.
Similar resolutions are also being appointments of non-executive directors or for increases in remuneration.
proposed at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
It is however, necessary It is important to note that the proposed limit of 500,000 represents a cap to make certain changes to the Current Articles to make fuller provision on aggregate remuneration and is not the actual proposed remuneration for any treasury shares the Company may hold.
The changes in the New of the non-executive directors.
Articles will allow the directors to re-issue any treasury shares held in treasury by the Company subject to the same pre-emption requirements that relate to new share issues, participate in any bonus issue of shares in relation to treasury shares and they also provide for treasury shares to be discounted from the various quorum and percentage calculations contained in the Current Articles.
Compass Group PLC 51 Directors Report continued Other Articles concerning the Board and the Directors Proposed the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
The directors consider it appropriate changes: amendments to Current Articles 82, 84, 118 and 158 for a further authority to be granted and to remain in force up to the New Articles 112, 114, 152 and 214 conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2006 or 13 May An amendment is proposed to the Current Articles to increase the current 2006 if earlier.
Accordingly Resolution 15, which will be proposed as maximum number of directors that may be appointed to the Board from a Special Resolution, seeks to renew the directors authority to issue sixteen to twenty.
The Board is currently made up of the Chairman, five ordinary shares for cash to holders of ordinary shares on a pre-emptive executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Evolving corporate basis, subject to special arrangements relating to fractional entitlements governance requirements mean that further directors may need to be or practical problems.
In addition, the directors will be authorised to issue appointed to the Board and the Company wishes to take this opportunity ordinary shares for cash otherwise than on a pre-emptive basis up to an to ensure that the maximum limit in the New Articles provides sufficient aggregate nominal value of 10.7 million, representing approximately 5% flexibility to enable further appointments to be made.
of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 November 2004.
For the purposes of Resolution 15, the sale for cash of any shares held Amendments are also being proposed to other provisions of the Current in treasury by the Company under the Companies Acquisition of Own Articles in respect of the method by which the Board regulates and gives Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 will be treated as an issue of notice of its meetings e. g. by way of electronic means and the order equity securities.
in which directors are liable to retirement by rotation.
The proposed provision in the New Articles will take first into account those directors Authority to purchase own shares Resolution 16 The directors who wish to retire and not be re-appointed to office when considering authority pursuant to section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make the order in which the members of the Board must retire.
market purchases of its own shares also expires at the conclusion of The New Articles also contain a clarification to the indemnity provided to the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly Resolution 16, which the directors and officers of the Company by the Current Articles to make will be proposed as a Special Resolution, seeks to renew the directors clear that it extends to the fullest extent permissible under the Companies authority to re-purchase up to 215,540,302 ordinary shares representing Act.
This will ensure that the Company benefits from changes to the 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 November Companies Act, which are likely to take effect in April 2005, clarifying 2004.
Any purchases of shares would be made at prices of not less the protection allowed to be given by companies to their directors than 10 pence and not more than 5% above the average values for the and officers.
ordinary shares for the five business days preceding the purchase both prices being exclusive of costs.
The directors have no present intention Notices and Procedures at General Meetings Proposed changes: of exercising such authority and would only purchase shares if in their amendments to Current Articles 50.1, 59, 64, 76-79 and 148-153.2 opinion the expected effect would be to result in an increase in earnings New Articles 64, 82, 87, 104-109 and 191-205 per share and would benefit shareholders generally.
Should the directors Amendments are proposed to the Current Articles to clarify and simplify exercise such authority any shares so purchased may be placed into some aspects of the way that the Company regulates the procedures in treasury in accordance with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares connection with its general meetings.
The distinction between general Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 and subsequently cancelled or and special business contained in the Current Articles is to be removed transferred to satisfy awards arising under the Companys employee as company law no longer requires such a distinction to be made in the share schemes or issued for cash as provided for by the Regulations.
A clarificatory amendment is also As at 30 November 2004 there were options outstanding over proposed to ensure that any poll on the question of who is to act as approximately 150 million ordinary shares in the capital of the Company chairman at a general meeting or on a question of adjournment is taken representing 7% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The New Articles will also make clear that only members authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares were exercised who hold a certain minimum number of shares 10% of voting share in full, these options would represent 7.7% of the Companys issued capital in the Company may demand a poll on such questions.
This latter ordinary share capital at that date.
amendment is in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and does not affect the rights of five members to call for a poll on any other resolution Documents available for inspection The Current Articles, the New or any rights the chairman might have.
Amendments are also made to the Articles and the rules of the Matching Plan will be available for inspection notice provisions of the Current Articles to bring these up to date and to during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays the proxy provisions to clarify the right of a proxy to vote on certain matters excepted from the date of dispatch of this Annual Report until the close not referred to in the original notice of meeting.
of the 2005 Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, 65 Fleet Other Changes Certain other changes are also made to the Current Street, London EC4Y 1HS and will also be made available at the 2005 Articles which are of a conforming, technical or formatting nature.
These Annual General Meeting for a period of 15 minutes prior to and during changes in the New Articles include confirmation of the ability of the the continuance of the meeting.
directors to reclassify unissued share capital and updating an obsolete reference to the Financial Services Act 1986 which was repealed by the Recommendation The directors believe that the proposed resolutions Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The power to declare and pay set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 97 and 98 are dividends in any currency or currencies that the directors determine other in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole.
than sterling is also included in the New Articles, although the directors Accordingly, they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of each currently have no intention to do so.
The opportunity is also being taken to resolution, as they will be doing so in respect of their own shareholdings in simplify the numbering contained in the Current Articles.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 15 The directors By Order of the Board authority pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to issue equity securities for cash as if the pre-emption rights in section 89 1 of Ronald Morley the Companies Act 1985 does not apply expires at the conclusion of Company Secretary 30 November 2004 52 Compass Group PLC Corporate Governance Compass Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate these matters by an Executive Committee which comprises the executive governance and has throughout the year complied fully with all the directors and key senior managers, details of whom are given on pages provisions of Section 1 of the 1998 Combined Code which has applied 44 and 45.
The Committee normally meets monthly and is responsible to the Company over the past financial year.
The Board has also for implementing Group policy, day to day management, monitoring reviewed the provisions of the revised Code on Corporate Governance business performance and reporting on these areas to the Board.
applicable to reporting periods beginning after 1 November 2003 the 2003 Combined Code.
Because the Company already conformed to Board procedures The Board met formally on nine occasions during many of the provisions of the 2003 Combined Code, fuller compliance the year and individual attendance at those meetings is set out in the table has involved only minor changes to its procedures.
In addition the non-executive directors, without their executive have been to the terms of reference of the Boards committees and colleagues present, met with the Chairman to consider strategic issues the introduction of a formal process for the evaluation of the Board, its and succession planning.
The collective performance of the Board of committees and individual directors.
This statement describes how the directors was assessed as Good in accordance with a formal evaluation principles of corporate governance set out in the 1998 Combined Code undertaken in July 2004 by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and together with certain of those set out in the 2003 Combined Code have Administrators ICSA.
The ICSA has made certain recommendations been applied within the Company during the year.
of a minor nature aimed at improving further the efficient functioning of the Board and these will be introduced in the coming year.
In September Board membership The Board comprises a Chairman, six 2004, Peter Cawdron and his non-executive colleagues met to evaluate independent non-executive directors and five executive directors.
the performance of the Chairman and concluded that notwithstanding his Biographical details of the directors are given on page 44 and all directors responsibilities as non-executive Chairman of Kingfisher plc, a position will offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
The roles he has held since November 2001, Sir Francis Mackay is more than of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined and capable of combining the two roles without detriment.
The evaluation the division of responsibilities between them has been set out in writing further concluded that an excellent relationship exists between Sir Francis and agreed by the Board.
Peter Cawdron is Deputy Chairman and Senior Mackay and his fellow directors in facilitating the efficient and effective Independent Director.
All of the non-executive directors are considered functioning of the Board.
During the latter part of the year the Chairman by the Board to be independent in character and judgement.
Because together with the ICSA began a formal evaluation of the performance Denis Cassidy and Peter Cawdron have each served on the Board of each of the directors and in the coming year the ICSA will undertake for more than nine years they can only be considered as independent formal evaluations of the collective effectiveness of each of the Audit, directors under the 2003 Combined Code if they are deemed to be so by Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The results of these the Board and the Board has no hesitation in reaching this conclusion.
evaluations will be disclosed in the next annual report.
To enable the Nevertheless, it is with much regret to the Board that Denis Cassidy has Board to perform its duties effectively all directors have full access to all decided not to seek re-election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary whose the directors are of the unanimous opinion that to lose Peter Cawdron in responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The the same circumstances would be contrary to the interests of Compass appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved Groups shareholders.
Peter Cawdron brings to the Board a substantial for the Board.
There is an agreed procedure whereby directors wishing wealth of knowledge and experience gained throughout his career.
He is to take independent advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at a non-executive director of a number of listed companies where as with the Companys expense.
Appropriate training is available to all directors Compass Group he has developed a reputation for robust independence.
on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
The directors His deep understanding of the Companys business is something that understanding of the business is developed further by a combination of can only be gained over a number of years and it has enabled him to make visits to sites in the UK and in overseas countries, presentations from local considerable constructive and critical contributions to the Board and its managements and the opportunity to meet with the Companys principal committees over the years.
In accordance with the 2003 Combined Code, stakeholders and advisers.
Peter Cawdron is required to seek re-election annually and the Board is The attendance of individual directors at scheduled meetings of the Board pleased that he has indicated his willingness to stand for re-election at the and at meetings of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees 2005 Annual General Meeting.
during the year ended 30 September 2004 is set out in the table below.
Andrew Martin and Steve Lucas were appointed during the year and have Role of the Board The Chairman is primarily responsible for the attended all relevant meetings since their respective dates of appointment effective functioning of the Board and the role of the Board is to where n a appears in the table the relevant director is not a committee promote the success of the Company and provide leadership within member.
a framework of prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be Audit Nomination Remuneration Name Board Committee Committee Committee assessed and managed.
The Board sets strategic aims and ensures that Sir Francis Mackay 9 n a 3 n a adequate financial and human resources are made available to enable Michael Bailey 9 n a n a n a these objectives to be met and undertakes reviews of management Peter Blackburn 9 3 3 5 Denis Cassidy 8 3 2 5 performance.
In addition, the Board sets the Companys values and Peter Cawdron 9 3 3 5 standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others Alain Dupuis 8 n a n a n a Val Gooding 8 2 3 4 are understood and met.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters Clive Grundy 9 n a n a n a reserved for its decision, covering overall strategy, acquisition and Sven Kado 8 3 3 5 divestment plans, treasury policy, major capital expenditure, dividend Steve Lucas 2 n a n a n a Andrew Lynch 9 n a n a n a strategy, financial statements and senior executive succession planning.
Andrew Martin 5 n a n a n a Certain routine administrative matters have been delegated to the General Number of meetings during the year 9 3 3 5 Business Committee which comprises all the executive directors which meets as required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly defined limits set by the Board and subject to those matters reserved for the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for operating the business and implementing the Boards strategies and policies and is supported in Compass Group PLC 53 Corporate Governance continued The Board has delegated certain of its governance responsibilities to the External auditors Following the annual review referred to above, Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees comprising solely the Committee confirms that it is entirely satisfied with the level of of independent non-executive directors apart from the Chairman of the fees, objectivity and independence, expertise and resources and the Nomination Committee.
The terms of reference of these committees, effectiveness generally of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Accordingly a resolution originally established in December 2000, were amended to reflect Resolution 9 set out in the Notice for the re-appointment of Deloitte changing best practice and adopted by the Board in June 2004.
They are &Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the 2005 available for viewing on the Companys website and are described below.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Peter Blackburn, Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Peter Denis Cassidy, Val Gooding, Sven Kado and is chaired by Peter Cawdron Blackburn, Denis Cassidy, Peter Cawdron, Val Gooding and Sven Kado who is considered by the Board to have significant recent and relevant and is chaired by Sir Francis Mackay.
The Company Secretary acts as the financial experience.
With effect from the conclusion of the 2005 Annual secretary to the Committee.
General Meeting, Peter Cawdron will retire as Audit Committee Chairman Summary terms of reference and he will be succeeded by Steve Lucas.
To carry out a formal selection process of candidates and make Summary terms of reference recommendations to the Board on the appointment and reFinancial reporting provide support to the Board by monitoring the appointment of executive and non-executive directors for the purpose integrity of and ensuring that the published financial statements of ensuring a balanced Board in respect of skills, knowledge and and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial experience.
performance comply fully with relevant statutes and accounting To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the suitability of standards.
candidates for the role of senior independent director and membership Internal controls and risk management review the effectiveness of of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The appointment and the Companys internal financial controls and risk management removal of directors and the recommendation of the positions of systems.
Chairman and Chief Executive are matters reserved for the full Board.
Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal audit programme To remain fully informed about strategic issues and commercial matters ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and affecting the Company and to keep under review the leadership free from management restrictions, review and monitor responses to needs of the organisation to enable it to compete effectively in the the findings and recommendations of the internal auditor.
External audit to recommend to the Board for approval by The Committee meets as required and met during the year to confirm the shareholders in general meeting the appointment, re-appointment reorganisation of executive responsibilities announced in January 2004 and removal of the external auditor.
To meet regularly with the external relating to the appointment of Andrew Lynch as Chief Executive Officer of auditor, to review the scope and results of the annual audit and its Select Service Partner and the appointment of Andrew Martin to replace cost effectiveness and to approve the remuneration and terms of him as Group Finance Director.
The Committee met again in June 2004 engagement of the external auditor.
To satisfy itself that there are no to consider the appointment of additional non-executive directors.
Ian relationships between the auditor and the Company other than in the Jones & Partners were appointed to provide assistance in the search ordinary course of business.
To agree a policy on the employment of and selection procedure of a suitable candidate with significant recent former employees of the auditor and monitor the implementation of and relevant financial experience.
Following a rigorous selection process such policy.
To monitor the external auditors compliance with relevant the Committee met in July 2004 and recommended to the Board the ethical and professional guidance on rotation of audit partners and appointment of Steve Lucas.
The Board accepted the Committees matters relating to fee income and regulatory requirements generally.
recommendation and Steve Lucas was duly appointed a non-executive To review annually and monitor the external auditors objectivity director on 7 July 2004.
Since their appointments Andrew Martin and and independence, expertise and resources and the effectiveness Steve Lucas have undergone a customised induction process and in of the audit process.
To review the managements response to the accordance with the Companys Articles of Association they will be findings and recommendations of the external auditor.
To develop and seeking election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
implement a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Employee concerns - the Committee reviews the Companys Peter Blackburn, Denis Cassidy, Val Gooding and Sven Kado and is arrangements under which employees may in confidence raise any chaired by Peter Cawdron.
The Remuneration Committees Report is concerns regarding possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or set out on pages 56 to 64. other matters.
The Committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up Relations with shareholders Compass Group reports formally to action.
shareholders twice a year, with the interim results announced normally Policy on non-audit services Deloitte & Touche LLP, in its capacity as in May and the preliminary final results announced normally in late the Companys external auditor, undertakes work that it is obliged or, in November early December.
The Chief Executive and the Finance the view of the Committee, is best placed to perform.
Such work includes Director give presentations of these results to the Companys institutional tax-related services, formalities relating to financing facilities, shareholder investors, analysts and the media in London and other locations.
These circulars, regulatory matters and work in respect of acquisitions and presentations may also be accessed on the Companys website.
Nevertheless, to provide safeguards against the objectivity Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Senior Independent and independence of the external auditors being compromised, the Director maintain a close dialogue with institutional investors on the Committee has agreed that, unless there is no other competent and Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives through a available provider, the external auditors should be excluded from programme of regular meetings.
These meetings also serve to develop an providing the Company with general consultancy and all other non-audit ongoing understanding of the views and any concerns of the Companys and non-tax-related services.
54 Compass Group PLC Corporate Governance continued major shareholders and are reported regularly to the Board.
The Board Formal risk management procedures have been in place throughout also receives the views of its major shareholders through the publication the year and those procedures involve ongoing analysis, evaluation and of periodic reports and surveys by sector analysts and brokers.
The management of the key risks to the Group.
The Groups system of internal Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive control, including the mechanism by which the directors routinely review directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request and the the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management, Chairman will at such meetings engage in discussions relating to matters includes the following: of governance and strategy as appropriate.
Regular meetings of the Board, Executive and Audit Committees, The Annual General Meeting is considered by the Board to be a primary the responsibilities of which are set out above: opportunity to communicate directly with the Companys many private Semi-annual reviews by the Executive Committee of detailed risk shareholders.
The meeting is held normally in February in London and management reports prepared by the operating divisions.
Such reports is attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members cover key risks and include updates of agreed actions arising from of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is previously reviewed semi-annual reports.
The Executive Committee normally a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions presents its own detailed risk management report to the Board twice at the meeting itself and are given the opportunity to meet the directors a year: informally afterwards.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting together with A process beginning in January each year with the Board and the any related documents are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working Executive Committee meeting to approve short-term and mediumdays before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each term strategies followed by regular reviews throughout the year: substantially separate issue.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance Approval and regular reviews of annual budgets: for and against each resolution together with the level of abstentions, if Monthly reviews by the Executive Committee of key financial and any, are announced to the meeting following voting by a show of hands non-financial business performance indicators of the Groups operating and are made available on the Companys website.
divisions: Strict internal financial controls covering capital expenditure together The Company has a dedicated Investor Relations Department at its head with post-investment performance reviews and treasury operations: office in Chertsey serving as a primary point for contact with investors Clearly defined organisation structures and appropriate delegated throughout the year.
authorities for executives throughout the Group: Group-wide policies, standards and procedures relating to key Internal control The Company, as required by the UK Financial business activities: Services Authority, has complied with the Combined Code provisions Regular consideration of Corporate Social Responsibility matters as set out in Section 1 of the Code on internal control having established outlined on pages 38 to 41: and the procedures necessary to implement the guidance on internal control Periodic reports and recommendations of the internal audit function.
issued by the Turnbull Committee and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
The directors confirm that they have conducted a specific annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk In applying the principle that the Board should maintain a sound system management in operation during the period up to the date of this annual of control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys report.
assets, the Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of internal control to provide reasonable assurance regarding effective and efficient operations, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
It recognises that such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of and sufficient internal controls for safeguarding the assets of the the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the Company and the Group and for the prevention and detection of fraud profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that year.
In preparing and other irregularities.
these financial statements, the directors are required to: The directors, having prepared the financial statements, have requested i select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the auditors to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give ii make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: their audit report.
iii state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and iv prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
Compass Group PLC 55 Remuneration Committees Report This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee has consulted with the Chairman, the Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the Sir Francis Mackay, the Chief Executive, Michael Bailey, the Group requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations Human Resources Director, Clive Grundy, and the Company Secretary, 2002 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Neither the Chairman nor any of the other executives are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The report is presented to shareholders by the Board and sets out the remuneration policy which applied for the year ended 30 September The Committee meets as required and at least twice a year.
During the 2004 as well as remuneration policy for the year ending 30 September year, the Committee met on five occasions and the number of meetings 2005, and its intended policy thereafter.
Information regarding each attended by each of the Committee members is set out on page 53. directors remuneration, incentive and pension scheme participation The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys is detailed within the report.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the Committees Report at The Chairman of the Committee, Peter Cawdron, will be available at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
the 2005 Annual General Meeting to answer any queries relating to the Committees activities, its role and matters falling within its remit.
INFORMATION NOT SUBJECT TO AUDIT Remuneration Policy The prime objective of the Committees Committee During the year ended 30 September 2004, the Committee remuneration policy is to ensure that Compass Group continues to comprised entirely of independent non-executive directors of the attract, retain and motivate talented and successful executive directors Company, as defined under the 1998 Combined Code.
These were: and senior managers.
Peter Cawdron Chairman, Peter Blackburn, Denis Cassidy, Val Gooding and Sven Kado.
Their biographical details are set out on page 44.
Remuneration arrangements are referenced to relevant market practice, derived from UK and international peer group comparisons.
They take into For the year ending 30 September 2005, the Committee will comprise account performance both corporate and individual through a range of the following non-executive directors of the Company: Peter Cawdron incentive arrangements rewarding achievements over the short, medium Chairman, Peter Blackburn, Val Gooding, Sven Kado and Denis Cassidy and longer term.
In determining the overall remuneration framework, the until his retirement as a non-executive director following the conclusion of Committee maintains an active dialogue with shareholder representatives the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
and monitors developments in best practice.
The Committees role is to provide advice and recommendations to the The remuneration policy was thoroughly reviewed by the Committee Board regarding the Companys framework for executive remuneration, during 2004.
Prior to any changes being approved, there was consultation that is the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors and the with the Companys top ten institutional shareholders, the Association top 50 senior executives of the Group.
of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
The To assist with this task, the Committee is authorised to take advice from purpose of this was to ensure that: independent remuneration consultants.
The Hay Group has provided the components of the Companys remuneration package continue advice on remuneration levels amongst comparator companies, job to be aligned to the business strategy of creating shareholder value.
evaluation and design of incentive arrangements.
there is a proper balance between the various components of the In addition to providing advice to the Committee, The Hay Group has remuneration package.
provided advice to the Company on general human resource and the various targets for determining performance-related compensation compensation related matters, including job evaluation and competency remain linked to the Companys objectives and are easily measurable.
External advice has also been received from Freshfields the incentives are easily understood and accepted by shareholders and Bruckhaus Deringer in its capacity as legal advisors to the Company, and senior executives.
from Mercer, which provides advice in relation to executive directors the Companys remuneration policy and its various components are in pensions and actuarial advice to the Company generally.
Advice has been received internally from relevant executives and human Following this consultation the Committee identified ways in which resources professionals.
remuneration arrangements could be developed to align even more closely with shareholders interests.
The changes are outlined in this report.
Individual salary levels and increases thereto for executive directors and the next most senior executives will continue to be reviewed annually by the Committee and are based on market data obtained through detailed and rigorous benchmarking.
56 Compass Group PLC Remuneration Committees Report continued To ensure that directors interests are aligned with those of shareholders, The introduction of these performance criteria requires shareholder executive directors will now be subject to a minimum shareholding approval under the Listing Rules.
Accordingly, a resolution will be put to requirement.
A shareholding in the Company of at least one times salary shareholders for a new Compass Group Share Bonus Matching Plan, will be held by each executive director.
New directors will undertake to the key features of which are summarised on page 50. build up their shareholding within four years of their appointment.
With The level of bonus is determined by the Committee on the basis of the exception of Andrew Martin, who was appointed in March 2004, all criteria established to encourage performance in a manner that the executive directors hold the requisite number of shares.
Committee considers contributes most to increasing shareholder value and meeting corporate objectives.
Performance targets are determined Remuneration Packages Details of each individual executive directors at the beginning of each financial year.
For the year ended 30 September remuneration are set out on page 61.
Executive directors remuneration 2004, the bonus was based on the achievement of the following financial consists of the following: objectives: 1.
Basic Salary Base salaries are determined by the Committee in Turnover growth: accordance with the policy referred to above and are reviewed annually EPS growth: during September.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Annual and Deferred Bonus Executive directors are eligible for Working capital movement an annual performance-related bonus.
Opportunities under the annual Sir Francis Mackay, Michael Bailey, Clive Grundy, Andrew Lynch and bonus are expressed in terms of percentages of basic salary and paid Andrew Martin are subject to Group wide targets.
Alain Dupuis bonus on the achievement of performance targets set by the Remuneration is based on the achievement of targets relating to the Eastern Division Committee.
of which he is Chief Executive Officer.
The bonus award comprises two elements.
An annual performanceDirectors are eligible to receive a bonus for 2004 as disclosed within the related bonus of up to 75% of base salary 125% for the Chief Executive emoluments table on page 61.
At the date of this report, no decision is paid upon the achievement of certain targets.
In addition, if executive has been taken with regard to the form in which these bonuses will be directors perform considerably in excess of target figures, an enhanced received, for example, cash or shares, and therefore the full amount, bonus opportunity of up to 75% 125% for the Chief Executive excluding matching, is disclosed in the emoluments table.
proportionate to overachievement is payable.
Long-Term Incentive Plan and Option Plans In respect of the bonus for the year ended 30 September 2004, directors are able to directly, or via associates such as family trusts, invest up to i Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Committee continues to 50% of any basic pre-tax performance-related bonus in Compass Group view the LTIP, introduced in 2000, as the most appropriate vehicle for longshares.
If these shares are held for three years and the executive director term incentivisation for the executive directors and other key executives.
continues to be employed by the Group, the Company will release a Details of awards held by executive directors are set out on page 64. number of additional shares Matching Shares on a one for one basis.
The objectives of the LTIP are to align the interests of executives with Details of Matching Shares to which directors may become entitled in those of shareholders by making a significant part of remuneration relation to bonuses awarded for the years ended 30 September 2002 dependent on the success of management in delivering superior returns and 2003 are set out on page 64. to shareholders: and to ensure that the total remuneration package is sufficiently competitive in the relevant markets to attract and retain highThere are two proposed changes to the bonus award for 2005 and calibre executives.
First, the enhanced bonus payment may in future also be invested in shares and such shares will be eligible for Matching Shares.
Awards under the LTIP are made subject to performance conditions Second, as part of the Committees review and reflecting evolving determined by the Committee.
Executive directors currently receive a shareholder opinion, it was decided that performance criteria will be maximum annual award of 75% of annual base salary, payable in shares, introduced so that Matching Shares will only be awarded if such criteria over a three year vesting period.
In future, 50% of Matching Shares will be awarded if The release of shares to participants will depend upon growth in Compass underlying earnings per share EPS growth over the 3-year performance Groups total shareholder return TSR over a three-year performance period is an average of RPI 4% per annum, 75% of Matching Shares period relative to the FTSE 100 companies at the start of that period.
will be awarded at RPI 6% per annum: and 100% at RPI 8% per TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and reinvested dividends annum.
Where growth is between RPI 4% and RPI 8%, the number during the performance period.
For LTIP awards made from 2000 to 2004, of Matching Shares will be awarded on a straight line basis.
No Matching no shares will be released unless the Companys TSR performance is in Shares will be awarded if EPS growth is less than RPI 4%.
There will the top half of the comparator group with full vesting only if the Company be no performance retest.
EPS excludes goodwill amortisation and is in the top 25%.
40% of the award will vest if performance is at the exceptional items, discontinued activities and currency translation and median and where performance is between the 50th and 25th percentiles is therefore considered a good measure of underlying financial and awards will vest on a straight line basis between the 40% and 100% operational performance.
applicable to median and top quartile performances.
The Committee reserves the right to vary this performance target for future grants provided that in its reasonable judgement the new target is no less challenging in the light of the Groups business circumstances and internal forecasts.
Compass Group PLC 57 Remuneration Committees Report continued In addition, EPS is used as a second performance measure.
An increase Except for grants to executive directors, the exercise of options granted in EPS greater than the increase in UK RPI over a three year period since September 2000 under the Option Plan is subject to a performance must be achieved before any release is made.
EPS was chosen as the condition whereby annualised EPS growth must exceed the growth in performance measure as it is considered a good indicator of long-term UK RPI by an average of at least 3% per annum in a three-year period corporate performance.
between the dates of grant and exercise.
If the condition is not satisfied after the initial three year period, it may still be satisfied in subsequent For awards made before 2004, if awards do not vest or vest only in part years.
However, in early 2004, taking into account the views of institutional after the end of the three-year performance period, the performance investors, the Committee decided to remove the performance retest period may be extended for a maximum further two years, with a retest for options granted from 2004 onwards under the Option Plan, so that on each anniversary when further vesting is possible.
performance is tested once only after the initial three year period.
At the start of the 2004 financial year, the Committee amended the LTIP Executive directors have however been subject to a more stringent so that awards made in 2004 and thereafter will only vest to the extent performance condition so that no options will be exercisable unless EPS that the performance conditions have been satisfied at the end of a single growth exceeds 6% per annum.
Options are exercisable on a sliding scale three-year performance period.
There is no performance retest for these where average EPS growth is between 6% at which point one-third of the awards.
shares under option will become exercisable and 12% per annum when Following its remuneration review during the year, the Committee also options will be exercisable in full.
decided to amend the terms of the LTIP for awards made in 2005 and EPS was chosen as the performance measure for the Option Plan as it is thereafter by reducing the proportion of the award that vests at median considered a good indicator of long-term corporate performance.
performance from 40% of the award to 30% of the award.
Where performance is between the 50th and 25th percentiles awards will vest As part of its remuneration review in September 2004 and following on a straight line basis between the 30% and 100%.
consultation with institutional shareholders, the Committee examined the performance target relating to executive directors and decided that TSR was selected by the Committee to be the appropriate measure for this shall be amended in respect of options granted after the 2005 Annual this plan as it believes it to be a sound long-term indication of financial General Meeting so that 30% of options will be exercisable if EPS growth success and one which is acceptable to shareholders.
TSR calculations over the three year performance period is at least an average of RPI 4% are periodically undertaken by external parties.
100% of options will vest at RPI 8% per annum.
Options will The Committee also recommended the amendment of the LTIP rules in be exercisable on a straight line basis between these two points.
circumstances of a change of control of the parent company.
Currently The Committee considered these targets to be more in keeping with shares vest by reference to performance achievement in the shortened accepted norms.
An independent survey has indicated that the targets are period terminating on the date on which control is obtained.
For awards amongst the most demanding in the FTSE 100. made from 2005, shares which vest on the above basis will be further scaled down pro-rata to the length of time since the award was made.
In addition, the Committee also recommended the amendment of the current provisions of the Option Plan in circumstances of a change of ii Share Option Plan Option Plan Executive directors are normally control of the Company whereby performance conditions are waived and granted share options annually under the Option Plan.
The value of the options may be exercised in full.
For option awards made from 2005, the number of shares comprised in a grant is determined by reference to a performance conditions will stand in such circumstances.
Options will percentage of annual base salary and the Committee has determined that only be exercisable on satisfaction of the performance conditions over the this be limited to 200 % of base salary.
Details of share options held by period to the change of control and will be further scaled down pro rata to executive directors are set out on pages 62 to 63 of this report.
the length of time since they were granted.
Options are granted at an exercise price not lower than the market value iii Other Share Plans For executives below executive director of the Companys shares on the day prior to the date of grant.
They may level and other high performing employees, the Company operates normally be exercised between the third and tenth anniversaries of the the Management Share Option Plan.
Options are granted at no lower date of grant after which they will lapse.
than the market price on the day prior to grant on the basis of pre-grant Since last year, there has been a variation to the terms of existing and performance.
During the year, approximately 4,500 employees received future options to permit leavers with exercise rights to extend the usual option grants.
A Phantom Management Share Option Plan is operated six-month period during which they may exercise to accommodate to provide a cash incentive to employees in jurisdictions where it is their notice periods.
Such amendment was not subject to shareholder impracticable to operate the Plan due to tax or securities laws.
approval and ensures fairness for leavers by removing the potential Executive directors may participate in the Companys all-employee share discriminatory treatment of option holders according to whether they plans on the same basis as other employees.
The Compass Group UK served out their notice period.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme is open to all UK employees and is linked to a monthly savings contract over three and five year periods.
The maximum which can be saved each month is 250.
Options are granted to participants at 80% of the prevailing market price.
58 Compass Group PLC Remuneration Committees Report continued Similar arrangements currently operate in various overseas countries The Main Section of the UK Pension Plan requires a contribution from the including the USA, Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, South executive director of 5% of pensionable pay.
No element of remuneration Africa, Austria, Belgium, Chile, Colombia, Cyprus, Denmark, Republic other than annual basic pay is pensionable.
Directors covered by this of Ireland, Finland, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Nigeria, arrangement are entitled to a pension of 1 60th of salary for each year of Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Turkey.
service, subject to Inland Revenue limits.
Details of both these plans are set out in note 19 to the financial The normal retirement age is 63, and an actuarial reduction of 4% per statements.
annum is applied on early retirement.
Should a director die in service, a spouses pension of half of the prospective pension is payable, together iv Dilution limits and Treasury Shares The Company has, at all with 12 12 per cent of prospective pension per child to a maximum of four.
times, complied with the equity dilution limits contained within its share plans which are in line with ABI guidelines and the Committee reviews the Additionally a lump sum equal to 3 x basic salary is payable on death position prior to approving any grants.
in service, subject to a maximum of 4 x the Earnings Cap.
Following retirement, the pension increases at a rate of 5% or RPI if lower, with a At the 2004 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved the use of guaranteed minimum of 3% per annum.
Treasury Shares by the Company.
The rules of all the Companys incentive plans have been amended to permit the use of Treasury Shares to satisfy In addition to membership of the UK Pension Plan, Andrew Martin has a share and option awards.
No Treasury Shares were utilised in 2004. unfunded promise made by the Company on his behalf equating to 20% of basic salary.
Retirement Benefits Details of executive directors pension arrangements are set out on page 61.
Compass Group closed the Exec Section of the UK Pension Plan to any new joiners on 1 March 2003.
At the same time eligibility for the Main With the exception of Michael Bailey and Alain Dupuis, the executive Section of the UK Pension Plan was altered to be by invitation only as it is directors participate in the Compass Group Final Salary Pension Plan the considered necessary for this section of the UK Pension Plan to remain UK Pension Plan, which is an Inland Revenue approved arrangement in open albeit with restricted eligibility to meet the needs of the business in the UK.
Andrew Martin participates in the Main Section of the UK Pension Plan, 5.
Other Benefits Executive directors may receive some or all of the whilst Sir Francis Mackay, Clive Grundy and Andrew Lynch participate following benefits: provision of a company car and fuel or cash allowance, in the Senior Executive Members Section the Exec Section of the UK private medical and permanent health insurance for the director and his Pension Plan.
immediate family, life assurance, subsidised staff restaurant, annual leave The Company has given Michael Bailey an unfunded pension promise in and payment of professional subscriptions.
the US to provide for a level of benefit broadly similar to that applying to UK executive directors in the Exec Section of the UK Pension Plan.
The Company has given Alain Dupuis a pension promise to provide for a level of benefit broadly similar to that applying to UK executive directors in the Exec Section of the UK Pension Plan which is partially funded.
Benefits arising under the UK Pension Plan will be provided to the maximum permitted under Inland Revenue regulations.
Any benefits promised in excess will be paid directly by the Company to the member on retirement.
The Earnings Cap is strictly applied to executive directors pension entitlements in line with legislation.
Consequently, for any executive directors joining Compass Group after the introduction of the Earnings Cap on 1st June 1989, pensionable earnings would be restricted to the Earnings Cap which is currently 102,000.
With pension benefits for Michael Bailey and Alain Dupuis accruing outside of the UK and therefore beyond the scope of the Earnings Cap, only Andrew Martin is affected by the Earnings Cap as the remaining executive directors joined the Company or one of its acquired companies prior to June 1989.
The Exec Section of the UK Pension Plan is operated on a noncontributory basis.
No element of remuneration other than annual basic pay is pensionable.
Directors covered by this arrangement are entitled to a pension of 1 30th of salary for each year of service, subject to Inland Revenue limits.
The normal retirement age is 60, but executive directors may retire from age 55 with no actuarial reduction.
Should a director die in service, a spouses pension of half of the prospective pension is payable, together with 12 12 per cent of prospective pension per child to a maximum of four.
Additionally a lump sum equal to 4 x basic salary is payable on death in service.
Following retirement, the pension increases at a rate of 5% or RPI if lower, with a guaranteed minimum of 3% per annum.
Compass Group PLC 59 Remuneration Committees Report continued Directors service contracts The executive directors have service The letters of engagement of the non-executive directors were amended contracts with the Company dated as follows: during the year to take account of developments in best practice and to comply with the 2003 Combined Code.
Peter Cawdron, Peter Blackburn, Sir Francis Mackay 1 July 1999 Val Gooding and Sven Kado all hold revised letters of engagement dated Michael Bailey 1 October 2002 31 March 2004 and Steve Lucas holds an appointment letter that takes Alain Dupuis 1 October 2002 effect from 7 July 2004.
Clive Grundy 1 October 2002 Andrew Lynch 15 March 2004 All appointments are renewable at three year intervals, based on the Andrew Martin 15 March 2004 directors original date of appointment.
The non-executive directors were first appointed as directors of the Company on the following dates: Andrew Martins contract terminates on his 65th birthday.
The other directors contracts terminate upon their reaching the age of 63 years.
Peter Cawdron 3 November 1993 Peter Blackburn 10 April 2002 The Boards policy is to limit service contracts of executive directors to Denis Cassidy 21 June 1994 12 month rolling terms.
Contracts may be terminated by the Company Val Gooding 4 January 2000 giving not less than 12 months written notice or by the executive director Sven Kado 10 April 2002 giving not less than 6 months written notice.
Steve Lucas 7 July 2004 In the event of the termination of employment of any director by the Their appointments are terminable under the Companys Articles of Company, legally appropriate mitigation factors are always taken into Association, the Companies Act 1985, or upon the directors resignation.
account in determining any compensation that may be payable.
There is no ability to trigger termination by an executive in circumstances of a Total Shareholder Return The performance graph below shows the change of control.
total shareholder return TSR for Compass Group over the last five years On early termination of their contracts, executive directors would as required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. normally be entitled to an amount equal to 12 months salary, annual The TSR for Compass Group comprises that of former Compass from bonus and benefits, and compensation for loss of pension benefits.
30 September 1999 to 26 July 2000, that of Granada Compass plc from Under Sir Francis Mackays and Andrew Martins contracts, the Company 27 July 2000 to 1 February 2001 both adjusted to reflect the demerger may at its discretion terminate their employment by the phased payment from Granada Compass plc on 2 February 2001 and that of Compass of 12 months salary only.
Directors service agreements are available for inspection at the The graph shows the value of 100 invested in the Company compared Companys registered office during normal business hours and will also with 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The Committee considers be made available at the 2005 Annual General Meeting for a period of this to be the most appropriate comparator group for this purpose as the 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the meeting.
FTSE 100 index is widely used and recognised, and Compass Group has been a constituent member throughout the period.
External Appointments The Committee believes that non-executive directorships of companies outside Compass Group provide executive 180 directors with valuable experience beneficial to the Company.
160 Such appointments are subject to the approval of the Board and directors are normally restricted to one appointment each for which they may 140 retain any fees.
Andrew Lynch receives fees of 45,000 per year as a nonexecutive director of Dixons Group plc and Sir Francis Mackay receives 120 fees of 250,000 per year as non-executive Chairman of Kingfisher plc.
In 2003 Sir Francis Mackays basic salary was reduced by Compass 100 Group to reflect the time commitment required in respect of this role.
80 Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Non-executive directors fees have been determined by the members of the Board, excluding the 60 non-executive directors, on receipt of advice from The Hay Group and taking into account market norms and the time commitment and duties 40 required.
20 Details of non-executive directors remuneration are set out on page 61.
These consist solely of fees.
Non-executive directors are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
No element of their remuneration is performance-related.
They do not participate in any of the Groups performance-related bonus, share option or other incentive arrangements.
Compass Group FTSE 100 Index 60 Compass Group PLC 30 9 99 30 9 00 30 9 01 30 9 02 30 9 03 30 9 04 Remuneration Committees Report continued INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT Real Transfer Transfer increase in Increase in Accumulated value value accrued accrued total accrued of accrued of accrued Years of pension for pension pension at pension at pension at Amount of Details of Directors Pensions Age at service at the year during year 30 Sep 2004 30 Sep 2004 30 Sep 2003 Contributions ABC Name of Director 30 Sep 2004 30 Sep 2004 000 000 000 000 A 000 B 000 C 000 Sir Francis Mackay 59 18 63 83 747 14,915 13,696 1,219 Michael Bailey 55 11 5 13 617 13,625 13,595 30 Alain Dupuis 60 9 31 35 140 2,794 2,071 723 Clive Grundy 53 23 22 28 251 5,138 4,727 411 Andrew Lynch 47 15 22 28 253 3,926 3,592 334 Andrew Martin 44 1 1 1 1 5 5 Andrew Martin also has a pension entitlement in respect of his earlier service with Forte and Granada.
The information above relates only to his employment from 15 March 2004 as a director of the Company.
The pension entitlement set out above is that which would be paid at normal retirement date.
i The benefits set out above do not reflect those secured by any additional voluntary contributions paid by the directors.
ii Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11, and with advice from our external actuaries.
Directors Emoluments The aggregate remuneration of the individual directors of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2004 was as follows: Annual PerformanceSalary Fee Benefits Related Bonus 2004 2003 Name of Director 000 000 000 000 000 Directors in office throughout the year Executive Sir Francis Mackay 500 46 546 1,259 Michael Bailey 930 114 1,044 2,623 Alain Dupuis 425 55 623 1,103 968 Clive Grundy 425 44 95 564 859 Andrew Lynch 510 54 114 678 1,033 Non-Executive Peter Blackburn 45 45 43 Denis Cassidy 45 45 43 Peter Cawdron 82 82 78 Val Gooding 45 45 43 Sven Kado 48 48 43 Total 3,055 313 832 4,200 6,992 Directors appointed during the year Executive Andrew Martin 220 17 49 286 Non-Executive Steve Lucas 11 11 Grand Total 3,286 330 881 4,497 6,992 Highest paid director.
Andrew Martin was appointed as a director on 15 March 2004 and data is in respect of the period following his appointment.
Steve Lucas was appointed as a non-executive director on 7 July 2004 and data is in respect of the period following his appointment.
The figure shown for Sven Kado includes a fee of 4,000 in respect of his non-executive directorship of Compass Group Deutschland GmbH.
Compass Group PLC 61 Remuneration Committees Report continued Directors interests in the shares of Compass Group PLC The interests, as defined by the Companies Act 1985, of the directors, their spouses and minor children in the ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the Company were as follows: 30 Sep 2003 or date of appointment 30 Sep 2004 if later Sir Francis Mackay 2,798,033 3,156,998 Michael Bailey 2,707,231 2,443,326 Peter Blackburn 5,000 5,000 Denis Cassidy 26,168 26,168 Peter Cawdron 24,200 11,600 Alain Dupuis 1,082,512 939,285 Val Gooding 5,001 5,001 Clive Grundy 633,375 590,147 Sven Kado 12,500 12,500 Andrew Lynch 798,149 745,735 Steve Lucas Andrew Martin 30,027 30,027 There were no changes in the interests of the directors, their spouses and minor children between 30 September 2004 and 30 November 2004.
Compass Group share prices The mid-market prices of the Companys ordinary shares on 30 September 2003 and 30 September 2004 were 347 pence and 220.5 pence respectively.
During the period the market price of the Companys ordinary shares ranged between 220.5 pence and 385 pence 14 January 2004.
The gross gain made on the exercise was 337,365. ii On 30 March 2004 Clive Grundy and Andrew Lynch each exercised 146,800 options at an option price of 179.2 pence and disposed of the resulting shares at 362.36 pence per share.
The gross gain made on each of these exercises was 268,879. iii On 30 March 2004 Michael Bailey released options over 162,019 shares and the Compass Group Employee Benefit Trust Number 2 paid 455,273.39 in respect of the release, such amount being equal to the excess of the middle market quotation of 360.5 pence per share on 29 March 2004 over the exercise price of 79.5 pence.
iv Last years aggregate gross gain made on the exercise release of share options by directors was 1,074,659. v No options expired unexercised during the year.
vi No price was paid for the award of any option.
Compass Group PLC 63 Remuneration Committees Report continued Directors interests in the Long-Term Incentive Plan The maximum number of shares to be allocated to the directors under the LTIP, all for nil consideration, are as follows: First Vesting Date As at Granted during Less shares As at 30 Sep 2003 the year released 30 Sep 2004 30 Sep 2003 30 Sep 2004 30 Sep 2005 30 Sep 2006 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Sir Francis Mackay 483,069 108,069 591,138 207,210 134,350 141,509 108,069 Michael Bailey 580,272 201,009 781,281 188,375 134,350 257,547 201,009 Alain Dupuis 243,123 91,859 334,982 70,640 59,275 113,208 91,859 Clive Grundy 236,493 91,859 328,352 65,595 57,690 113,208 91,859 Andrew Lynch 289,126 110,231 399,357 80,732 71,130 137,264 110,231 This entitlement to shares under the LTIP is subject to achieving the performance conditions referred to in the LTIP section on page 57.
The figures shown are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares if any will depend on these performance conditions being achieved.
Awards made from 2004 have no performance retesting facility.
The market price at the grant date of the 2003 2004 award was 371.75 pence.
The market price at the time of the grant of the awards made in 2000 2001, 2001 2002 and 2002 2003 was 371.6 pence, 488 pence and 336.25 pence respectively.
54.4% of these awards vested at the end of the first extended performance period which finished on 30 September 2004, based on the Company being in 44th position in the ranking of FTSE 100 companies by TSR.
Sir Francis Mackay 112,722 shares: Michael Bailey 102,476 shares: Alain Dupuis 38,428 shares: Clive Grundy 35,683 shares: Andrew Lynch 43,918 shares.
The market price at the date of vesting was 220.5 pence.
No shares have vested at the end of the performance period.
Directors Matching Shares Arrangements The following are details of Matching Shares to which directors may become entitled in relation to bonuses awarded for 2001 02 and 2002 03 where directors directly, or via associates such as family trusts, invested up to 50% of their annual performance-related bonus in the form of shares.
The shares are eligible for matching on a one-to-one basis and will normally be transferred to the directors at the end of the three-year deferral period provided they are still employed by the Company.
For these years, the release of Matching Shares is not subject to satisfaction of a performance condition.
The number of shares was derived by reference to the market price of 347p on 30 September 2003.
In addition, the Chairman holds an award of 300,000 bonus shares granted on 30 September 2001 based on his performance in that year and which vested on 30 September 2004.
The market price on 30 September 2001 was 474.5 pence.
By order of the Board Peter Cawdron Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 30 November 2004 64 Compass Group PLC Auditors Report Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with We have audited the financial statements of Compass Group PLC for United Kingdom auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices the year ended 30 September 2004 which comprise the consolidated Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and flow statement and related notes, the consolidated statement of total the part of the Remuneration Committees Report described as having recognised gains and losses, the reconciliation of movements in been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates consolidated shareholders funds and the related notes 1 to 28.
These and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the circumstances of the Company and of the Group, consistently applied Remuneration Committees Report that is described as having been and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report Companys members those matters we are required to state to them described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Committees Report described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As described Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Companys directors are fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance 30 September 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the year then with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are ended and the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained Committees Report described as having been audited have been in the annual report including the Remuneration Committees Report.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committees Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Deloitte & Touche LLP give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors part of the Remuneration Committees Report described as having been London audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies 30 November 2004 Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the directors report and the other information contained in the annual report for the above year as described in the contents sections including the unaudited part of the Remuneration Committees Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Profit on disposal of businesses comprises 12 million in the UK and 2 million in Continental Europe and the rest of the world 2003: Continental Europe and the rest of the world 5 million.
Acquisitions excluding Other Exchange cash and non-cash 1 Oct 2003 Cash flow movements overdrafts changes 30 Sep 2004 m m m m m m II Analysis of net debt: Cash at bank and in hand 303 25 12 266 Overdrafts 98 82 2 14 205 57 10 252 Debt due within one year 111 26 85 Debt due after one year 2,336 270 127 7 2,486 Finance leases 66 21 3 3 9 54 2,513 223 130 10 9 2,625 Total 2,308 166 120 10 9 2,373 Compass Group PLC 71 Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement continued 2004 2004 2003 2003 m m m m Purchases Disposals Purchases Disposals III Purchase and disposal of subsidiary companies and investments in associated undertakings: Net assets acquired disposed of : Tangible fixed assets 28 1 32 773 Fixed asset investments 7 47 38 Stocks 4 1 1 4 Debtors 25 1 119 8 Cash 21 19 1 Bank overdrafts 29 Loans 7 18 Leases 3 12 Creditors 56 1 130 21 Provisions 5 45 Tax 6 29 63 Minority interests 6 60 26 49 26 740 Loss on disposal 2 29 Goodwill acquired disposed of 162 17 195 14 188 64 221 725 Satisfied by: Cash consideration payable receivable 169 64 208 721 Deferred consideration receivable 8 Deferred consideration payable 19 13 4 188 64 221 725 IV Analysis of net flow of cash in respect of the purchase and disposal of subsidiary companies and investments in associated undertakings: Cash consideration paid received net of liabilities settled 169 64 208 721 Cash acquired disposed of 21 19 1 Overdrafts acquired 29 148 64 218 720 Deferred consideration and costs relating to previous acquisitions 19 78 167 64 296 720 72 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation G Investments The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Except as stated below, investments held as fixed assets are stated at UK law and applicable accounting standards.
UITF abstract 38 cost, less any provision for impairment in value, and investments held by Accounting for ESOP trusts has been adopted during the year.
the Company are stated at historical currency cost and translated into sterling in accordance with the policy set out in note C above.
Specific accounting policies The particular policies adopted are described below.
In the consolidated accounts, shares in associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method.
The consolidated profit and A Accounting convention and basis of consolidation loss account includes the Groups share of the pre-tax profits and The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost attributable taxation of the associated undertakings based on financial convention.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the statements for the financial year.
In the consolidated balance sheet, the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries and investment in associated undertakings is shown at the Groups share of associated undertakings.
the net assets of the associated undertakings.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate is capitalised as part of the carrying amount B Goodwill Purchased goodwill arising on acquisitions made since 1 October in the consolidated balance sheet and amortised over its estimated useful life.
Prior to the implementation of FRS 9 and FRS 10, such 1998 is capitalised in local currency and amortised through the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over its estimated goodwill was written off to reserves as a matter of accounting policy see note B above.
useful life up to a maximum of 20 years, in accordance with FRS 10.
Purchased goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 October H Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits Defined contribution pension costs charged to the profit and loss 1998, which was previously written off to a separate goodwill reserve, remains written off but has now been transferred to the account represent contributions payable in respect of the period.
profit and loss account reserve, in accordance with the transitional Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits, which are periodically arrangements of FRS 10.
This goodwill will be charged to the profit calculated by professionally qualified actuaries, are charged against and loss account as appropriate on the subsequent disposal of the profits so that the expected costs of providing pensions are recognised business to which it relates.
during the period in which benefit is derived from the employees services.
C Foreign currencies The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiary companies are Any pension surplus or deficit identified at the date of the last actuarial translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year valuation is being amortised over the average estimated remaining end.
The historical currency cost of foreign subsidiary companies service lives of employees in accordance with SSAP 24. and investments held by the Company are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and losses I Deferred tax resulting from the realignment of opening foreign currency balances Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated tax rates on timing to the year end rates including external loans and intragroup longdifferences arising from the inclusion of items of income and term loans are treated as movements on reserves.
expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
The Group has adopted The results of foreign subsidiary companies are translated into the policy of discounting deferred tax balances as permitted by FRS 19. sterling at the average rates of exchange for the accounting year.
Gains or losses resulting from the translation of these results from Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as the average rates to the year end rates are treated as movements more likely than not that they will be recovered.
All other exchange differences are dealt with through J Leases the profit and loss account.
Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are D Stocks capitalised at their fair value on the inception of the leases and Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
depreciated over their estimated useful lives.
The finance charges are allocated over the period of the lease in proportion to the capital E Turnover amount outstanding.
Turnover represents the invoiced value, excluding value added tax and similar sales taxes, of goods and services supplied to Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss third parties.
account in equal annual amounts over the period of the leases.
F Tangible fixed assets and depreciation K Financial instruments Fixed assets are carried at cost less depreciation, which is provided Financial assets and liabilities, including derivative financial instruments, on their book values at rates calculated to write down each asset to denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at year end its residual value over its estimated remaining useful life on a straight exchange rates.
Gains and losses on translation into sterling are dealt line basis, within the following ranges: with in accordance with the policy set out in note C above.
Freehold buildings and long-term leasehold property: Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value or shown on the 2% per annum freehold land is not depreciated balance sheet at the year end.
Income and expenses arising from Short-term leasehold property: the life of the lease interest rate swaps are matched against the interest costs arising on the Plant, machinery, fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum loans for which they are providing a hedge.
Premiums, discounts and front-end fees on financial assets and liabilities are amortised through the profit and loss account over the life of the asset or liability.
Interest rate swap monetisation receipts are deferred and amortised through the profit and loss account over the life of the related swap.
Compass Group PLC 73 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Continuing Discontinued o o op p pe e er r ra a at t tiiio o on n ns s s A A Ac c cq q qu u uiiis s siiit t tiiio o on n ns s s a a ac c ct t tiiiv v viiit t tiiie e es s s 2 2 20 0 00 0 04 4 4 2 2 20 0 00 0 03 3 3 2 2 T Tu ur rn no ov five er r, o op pe er ra at tiin ng g p pr ro of fiit t a an nd d n ne et t a as ss se et ts s m m m m m Turnover Foodservice: Geographical analysis: United Kingdom Continuing 3,021 12 3,033 2,980 Discontinued 80 3,021 12 3,033 3,060 Continental Europe & rest of the world 5,150 72 5,222 4,664 North America 3,462 55 3,517 3,562 11,633 139 11,772 11,286 Operating profit Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items Foodservice: The Company and its subsidiary undertakings Continuing 770 1 771 766 Discontinued 16 Associated undertakings Continuing 2 2 3 Discontinued 2 2 12 772 1 2 775 797 Geographical analysis: United Kingdom The Company and its subsidiary undertakings Continuing 294 294 360 Discontinued 16 Associated undertakings 1 1 2 Continental Europe & rest of the world The Company and its subsidiary undertakings 289 2 287 229 Associated undertakings Continuing 1 1 Discontinued 2 2 12 North America The Company and its subsidiary undertakings 187 3 190 177 Associated undertakings 1 772 1 2 775 797 Amortisation of goodwill continuing operations United Kingdom 156 156 155 Continental Europe & rest of the world 70 1 71 70 North America 48 48 51 274 1 275 276 Total operating profit: Group and share of associated undertakings 498 2 500 521 Total operating profit after goodwill amortisation for the year ended 30 September 2004 relates to foodservice analysed as UK 139 million, Continental Europe and the rest of the world 219 million and North America 142 million 2003: 223 million, 171 million and 127 million respectively.
74 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2004 2003 2 Turnover, operating profit and net assets continued m m Net assets Foodservice: United Kingdom 2,665 2,649 Continental Europe & rest of the world 1,082 1,259 North America 1,108 979 4,855 4,887 Net debt 2,373 2,308 2,482 2,579 Continuing Continuing Discontinued o o op p pe e er r ra a at t tiiio o on n ns s s A A Ac c cq q qu u uiiis s siiit t tiiio o on n ns s s 2 2 20 0 00 0 04 4 4 o o op p pe e er r ra a at t tiiio o on n ns s s a a ac c ct t tiiiv v viiit t tiiie e es s s 2 2 20 0 00 0 03 3 3 3 3 O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g c co os st ts s m m m m m m Movement in stocks of finished goods and work in progress 26 2 28 19 19 Raw materials and consumables 4,377 29 4,406 4,105 17 4,122 Other external charges 1,626 78 1,704 1,638 22 1,660 Staff costs 4,578 27 4,605 4,439 21 4,460 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets: owned assets 243 2 245 224 4 228 leased assets 13 13 15 15 Amortisation of goodwill 274 1 275 276 276 11,137 139 11,276 10,716 64 10,780 2004 2003 m m Other external charges include: Property lease rentals 81 86 Other occupancy rentals 123 121 Other asset rentals 73 55 Fees paid to the auditors: Audit services: statutory audit 3 2 Further assurance services 1 1 Tax services: advisory services 2 2 6 5 Less fees in respect of acquisitions and disposals charged as part of the cost of transactions 6 5 As permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the parent company is not presented as part of these accounts.
The consolidated profit for the year includes a profit after tax of 223 million 2003: 405 million which is dealt with in the accounts of the parent company.
Compass Group PLC 75 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2004 2003 4 Exceptional items m m Loss on disposal of discontinued activities Little Chef and Travelodge 27 5 Employees Number Number The average number of employees, including part-time employees, was: Foodservice: United Kingdom 85,822 89,882 Overseas 316,553 315,376 402,375 405,258 2004 2003 m m The aggregate remuneration of all employees including directors comprised: Wages and salaries 3,963 3,885 Social security costs 572 515 Other pension costs 70 60 4,605 4,460 Information on directors remuneration, share options, long-term incentive plans, pension contributions and entitlements is set out in the audited section of the Remuneration Committees Report on pages 56 to 64 and forms part of these financial statements.
2004 2003 6 Interest payable and similar charges m m Bank loans and overdrafts 34 41 Other loans 99 108 Finance lease interest 2 3 135 152 76 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2004 2003 7 Tax on profit on ordinary activities m m UK corporation tax at 30% 2003: 30% 49 41 Overseas tax payable 105 89 UK tax on share of profits of associated undertakings 1 Overseas tax on share of profits of associated undertakings 2 6 Current tax charge on profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 157 136 UK deferred tax 18 11 Impact of discounting UK deferred tax 1 5 Overseas deferred tax 17 54 Impact of discounting overseas deferred tax 12 12 179 194 Adjustments in respect of prior years: UK corporation tax 10 13 Overseas tax payable 32 12 UK deferred tax 2 16 Overseas deferred tax 3 16 27 25 Total tax charge before exceptional items 152 169 Exceptional items: UK corporation tax 4 Overseas tax payable 3 Prior year UK corporation tax 33 Total exceptional tax credit 26 Tax on profit on ordinary activities after exceptional items 152 143 The 2003 exceptional UK corporation tax charge, 4 million, and overseas tax charge, 3 million, both relate to the disposal of the Little Chef and Travelodge businesses.
The prior year exceptional UK corporation tax credit, 33 million, relates to the recovery of tax not previously recognised in respect of acquired businesses where the hindsight period for adjustments to goodwill has passed.
Factors affecting the future tax charge The main factors affecting the future tax charge are addressed in the Financial Review on page 11.
2004 2003 % % Reconciliation of the UK statutory tax rate to the effective current tax rate Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items at the UK statutory rate of 30% 30 30 Increase decrease resulting from: Permanent items 1 2 Amortisation of goodwill 2 2 Overseas taxes at higher rates 2 3 Losses brought forward 5 6 Tax credits 2 Capital allowances for the period in excess of depreciation charged 1 2 Other timing differences 1 2 Current tax rate on profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 24 21 Compass Group PLC 77 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2004 2003 8 Dividends Per share m Per share m Dividends on ordinary shares of 10p each: Interim 3.1p 66 2.7p 60 Proposed final 6.2p 134 5.7p 123 9.3p 200 8.4p 183 Before Including goodwill goodwill Before Including amortisation amortisation goodwill goodwill and exceptional and exceptional amortisation amortisation items items 2004 2004 2003 2003 9 Earnings per share m m m m Attributable profit for basic and diluted earnings per share 455 180 461 184 Millions Millions Millions Millions Average number of shares for basic earnings per share 2,158 2,158 2,218 2,218 Dilutive share options 7 7 5 5 Average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 2,165 2,165 2,223 2,223 Basic earnings per share 21.1p 8.3p 20.8p 8.3p Diluted earnings per share 21.0p 8.3p 20.7p 8.3p Earnings per share excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items has been shown to disclose the impact of these on underlying earnings.
10 Intangible fixed assets m Goodwill Group Cost At 1 October 2003 5,196 Additions arising from acquisitions 162 Disposal 19 Currency adjustment 95 At 30 September 2004 5,244 Amortisation At 1 October 2003 760 Charge for the year 275 Disposal 2 Currency adjustment 12 At 30 September 2004 1,021 Net book amount At 30 September 2004 4,223 At 30 September 2003 4,436 Additions to goodwill arising from acquisitions relates to the acquisitions shown in note 21.
Goodwill on acquisitions is being amortised over periods of up to 20 years which are considered to be the estimated useful lives.
The disposal relates to the goodwill attaching to the remaining 12.7% of Yoshinoya D&C held by Seiyo Foods disposed of during the year.
78 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements continued Freehold Long Short land and leasehold leasehold Plant and Fixtures and b b bu u uiiillld d diiin n ng g gs s s p p pr r ro o op p pe e er r rt t ty y y p p pr r ro o op p pe e er r rt t ty y y m m ma a ac c ch h hiiin n ne e er r ry y y fffiiit t tt t tiiin n ng g gs s s T T To o ot t ta a alll 11 1 T Ta an ng giib blle e f fiix xe ed d a as ss se et ts s m m m m m m Group Cost At 1 October 2003 486 58 327 1,446 661 2,978 Currency adjustment 10 3 58 15 86 Additions 19 3 14 205 133 374 Businesses acquired 2 7 14 5 28 Disposals 1 1 3 84 42 131 Business disposals 1 1 Transfer between categories 3 1 49 75 28 At 30 September 2004 493 61 391 1,447 770 3,162 Depreciation At 1 October 2003 85 4 54 763 338 1,244 Currency adjustment 4 1 28 9 42 Charge for the year 12 2 14 159 71 258 Disposals 1 3 75 24 103 Transfer between categories 3 1 5 23 14 At 30 September 2004 95 7 69 796 390 1,357 Net book amount At 30 September 2004 398 54 322 651 380 1,805 At 30 September 2003 401 54 273 683 323 1,734 The net book amount of the Groups tangible fixed assets includes, in respect of assets held under finance leases, freehold buildings and long and short leasehold property 9 million 2003: 11 million, plant and machinery 34 million 2003: 38 million and fixtures and fittings 3 million 2003: 4 million.
Group Company Investment Investment in associated in subsidiary undertakings undertakings 12 Investments held as fixed assets m m Cost At 1 October 2003 73 1,131 Additions 7 10 Disposals 47 356 Share of retained profits less losses 1 Dividends received 4 Currency adjustments other movements At 30 September 2004 30 785 During the year the Group disposed of its remaining 12.7% of Yoshinoya D&C.
Compass Group PLC 79 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2004 2003 13 Stocks m m Group Food and beverage stocks 207 166 Other stocks 72 63 279 229 Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 14 Debtors m m m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade debtors 1,186 1,112 Amounts owed by subsidiary companies 4,089 3,767 Amounts owed by associated undertakings 1 4 Group relief receivable 49 35 Overseas tax recoverable 12 15 Other debtors 153 184 Prepayments and accrued income 216 215 1,568 1,530 4,138 3,802 Amounts falling due after more than one year Other debtors 189 177 Overseas tax recoverable 3 Deferred tax 95 132 287 309 Provided 2004 2003 m m Deferred tax analysis Group UK capital allowances in excess of depreciation 10 8 UK short-term timing differences 72 100 Overseas deferred tax 37 26 Discount on timing differences 70 66 95 132 Deferred tax has been provided throughout the Group in accordance with the accounting policy shown in note 1 I.
Deferred tax does not include any potential tax liabilities which might arise in the event of the distribution of unappropriated profits or reserves of overseas subsidiary companies as there is no current intention to distribute such profits or reserves.
Deferred tax assets of 73 million 2003: 147 million have not been recognised as the timing of recovery is uncertain.
The Company has an unprovided deferred tax asset of 13 million 2003: 15 million which is not recognised on the same grounds.
Group m The movements on deferred tax are as follows: At 1 October 2003 132 Arising from acquisitions 2 Charged to profit and loss account 17 Other movements 22 At 30 September 2004 95 80 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements continued Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 15 Creditors amounts falling due within one year m m m m Bonds 94 Loan notes 19 12 3 Bank loans 66 5 46 Bank overdrafts 14 98 225 243 Obligations under finance leases 16 19 Trade creditors 926 1,060 Amounts owed to subsidiary companies 1,198 1,364 Amounts owed to associated undertakings 2 4 Corporation tax payable 211 146 Overseas tax 142 188 Other tax and social security costs 203 208 Other creditors 264 241 22 Deferred consideration 14 25 Accruals and deferred income 861 810 83 53 Proposed dividend 134 183 134 183 2,872 3,093 1,686 1,868 Compass Group PLC 81 Notes to the Financial Statements continued Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 16 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year m m m m Bonds 1,348 1,102 1,312 1,061 Loan notes 550 591 510 568 Bank loans 588 643 591 643 Obligations under finance leases 38 47 Other creditors 44 55 1 Deferred consideration 27 19 9 Accruals and deferred income 70 80 2,665 2,457 2,493 2,282 All amounts due under bonds, loan notes and bank facilities are shown net of unamortised issue costs.
Bonds are unsecured and consist of the following: Euro Eurobond with nominal value 750 million redeemable in 2009 and bearing interest at 6.0% per annum.
Sterling Eurobond with nominal value 200 million redeemable in 2010 and bearing interest at 7.125% per annum.
Sterling Eurobond with nominal value 325 million redeemable in 2012 and bearing interest at 6.375% per annum.
Sterling Eurobond with nominal value 250 million redeemable in 2014 and bearing interest at 7.0% per annum.
The bond redeemable in 2014 is recorded at its fair value to the Group on acquisition.
The Group has fixed term, fixed interest private placements totalling US$991 million 548 million at interest rates between 5.11% and 7.955%.
US$654 million 361 million is repayable in five to ten years.
Maturity of financial liabilities and other creditors falling due after more than one year as at 30 September 2004 is as follows: 2004 2003 Bonds and Loans and Bonds and Loans and loan notes overdrafts Other Total loan notes overdrafts Other Total m m m m m m m m Group In more than one year but not more than two years 75 5 79 159 30 45 70 145 In more than two years but not more than five years 627 574 82 1,283 130 598 36 764 In more than five years 1,196 9 18 1,223 1,533 15 1,548 1,898 588 179 2,665 1,693 643 121 2,457 In one year or less, or on demand 19 80 30 129 106 103 44 253 1,917 668 209 2,794 1,799 746 165 2,710 2004 2003 Bonds and Loans and Bonds and Loans and loan notes overdrafts Other Total loan notes overdrafts Other Total m m m m m m m m Company In more than one year but not more than two years 53 5 22 80 45 45 In more than two years but not more than five years 627 577 46 1,250 130 598 10 738 In more than five years 1,142 9 12 1,163 1,499 1,499 1,822 591 80 2,493 1,629 643 10 2,282 In one year or less, or on demand 271 271 3 243 246 1,822 862 80 2,764 1,632 886 10 2,528 82 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements continued Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 16 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year continued m m m m Bank loans Repayable by instalments in more than five years 9 9 Repayable by instalments within five years 23 23 Less: amounts falling due within one year 5 5 Amounts repayable by instalments falling due after more than one year 27 27 Repayable otherwise than by instalments within five years 622 648 605 643 Less: amounts falling due within one year 61 5 41 Amounts repayable otherwise than by instalments falling due after more than one year 561 643 564 643 The Group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 30 September: 2004 2003 m m Expiry date: In more than two years but not more than five years 971 987 971 987 17 Financial Instruments A discussion of the Groups objectives, policies and strategies with regard to financial instruments can be found in the Financial Review on page 12.
Short-term debtors and creditors arising directly from the Groups operations are excluded from the following disclosures, as permitted by FRS 13.
The disclosures in notes a and b below have been made after taking account of interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward contracts.
a Interest rate and currency of financial liabilities Fixed rate borrowings Weighted Weighted Other average average time Deferred Finance financial Fixed rate Floating rate Total gross interest for which consideration leases liabilities borrowings borrowings borrowings rate rate is fixed m m m m m m % Years 30 September 2004 Sterling 23 2 11 60 65 125 7.0 2.6 US dollar 10 23 15 744 421 1,165 4.1 2.5 Euro 4 23 6 515 157 672 4.0 2.1 Japanese Yen 2 2 85 39 124 0.3 1.5 Other currencies 4 4 10 333 152 485 3.5 1.2 41 54 44 1,737 834 2,571 3.9 2.1 30 September 2003 Sterling 11 2 15 60 16 76 7.0 3.6 US dollar 23 27 733 303 1,036 4.6 2.8 Euro 4 29 8 428 278 706 4.1 2.1 Japanese Yen 3 2 126 84 210 1.8 0.6 Other currencies 6 5 5 308 111 419 3.5 1.2 44 66 30 1,655 792 2,447 4.1 2.2 Floating rate borrowings bear interest at rates linked to LIBOR or its foreign equivalents.
Compass Group PLC 83 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17 Financial Instruments continued b Interest rate and currency of financial assets 2004 2003 Cash, net Other financial Cash, net Other financial of overdrafts assets of overdrafts assets m m m m Sterling 81 9 89 US dollar 32 22 12 13 Euro 39 16 33 7 Japanese Yen 13 23 Other currencies 87 6 48 3 252 53 205 23 Overdrafts principally arise as a result of uncleared transactions and accordingly have been netted off against cash balances in the above disclosure.
Interest on short-term deposits and bank overdrafts is at the relevant money market rates.
Other financial assets do not bear interest.
c Foreign currency risk After taking into account the effects of forward foreign exchange contracts and cross currency swaps, the Group has no significant currency exposures generating gains or losses that would be recognised in the profit and loss account.
d Fair values of financial instruments The fair values of the interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts have been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments involved are traded.
All the other fair values shown above have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
2004 2003 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Bank loans 654 654 648 648 Bonds 1,328 1,385 1,200 1,270 Loan notes 569 615 616 696 Obligations under finance leases 54 54 66 66 Deferred consideration 41 41 44 44 Cash at bank and in hand 266 266 303 303 Bank overdrafts 14 14 98 98 2,394 2,497 2,369 2,519 Financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile: Interest rate swaps 14 89 Cross currency swaps 20 30 17 17 20 44 17 106 Fair values of debtors and creditors due after more than one year are not significantly different from their book values.
84 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements continued 17 Financial Instruments continued e Interest rate risk hedging 2004 2003 Gains Losses Net Gains Losses Net m m m m m m Unrecognised gains losses arising under rate and currency swaps: Interest rate swaps 18 32 14 122 33 89 Currency swaps and forward contracts 13 13 2 2 2004 2003 Income Expense Net Income Expense Net m m m m m m Anticipated income expense arising in the following year: Interest rate swaps 7 19 12 25 25 Currency swaps and forward contracts 2 9 7 39 3 36 In addition to the amounts disclosed above, a gain of 90 million in respect of terminated interest rate swaps was carried in the balance sheet as at 30 September 2004 pending its recognition in the profit and loss account 2003: nil.
Of this carried forward amount, gains of 20 million are expected to be recognised in the profit and loss account in the 2005 financial year.
The termination payment received will be spread over the life of the underlying exposure.
Pensions and other post Legal and employment Onerous other benefits Insurance contracts claims Environmental Total 18 Provisions for liabilities and charges m m m m m m At 1 October 2003 247 32 48 91 11 429 Arising from acquisitions 2 3 5 Expenditure in the year 16 5 14 38 73 Charged to profit and loss account 21 7 6 34 Credited to profit and loss account 5 5 Reclassified 5 4 5 4 Currency adjustment 6 1 2 9 At 30 September 2004 253 38 31 52 11 385 Pensions and other post-employment benefits and insurance relate to the costs of self-funded pension schemes or statutory retirement benefits and self-funded insurance schemes respectively and are essentially long-term in nature.
Onerous contracts represent the liabilities in respect of short and long term leases on non-utilised properties and other contracts lasting under five years.
Legal and other claims relate principally to provisions for the cost of litigation and sundry other claims.
The timing of the settlement of these claims is uncertain.
Environmental provisions are in respect of liabilities relating to the Groups responsibility for maintaining its operating sites in accordance with statutory requirements and the Groups aim to have a low impact on the environment.
The amount credited to the profit and loss account arises wholly within the UK.
2004 2003 19 Called up share capital Number m Number m Authorised: Ordinary shares of 10p each 3,000,010,000 300 3,000,010,000 300 Redeemable preference shares of 1 each 49,998 49,998 Allotted and fully paid: Ordinary shares of 10p each 2,155,345,032 216 2,169,576,093 217 Number of shares Ordinary shares of 10p each allotted as at 1 October 2003 2,169,576,093 Ordinary shares allotted during the year on exercise of share options 4,629,939 Repurchase of ordinary share capital 18,861,000 Ordinary shares of 10p each allotted as at 30 September 2004 2,155,345,032 During the year the Company purchased for cancellation 18,861,000 ordinary shares for a total consideration of 69 million, including costs 2003: 233 million.
Compass Group PLC 85 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 19 Called up share capital continued Share option schemes During the year 4,476,000 options were granted under the Compass Share Option Plan and 19,348,810 options under the Compass Group Management Share Option Plan.
All options were granted over the Companys ordinary shares and the grant price was equivalent to the market value of the Companys shares at the date of grant.
4,452,568 options were granted under the Compass Group UK Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and 1,957,429 options under the International Sharesave Plans.
These grants were made at 80% of the market value at the time of grant.
Under its articles of association, any CGH ordinary shares which are issued on exercise are automatically transferred to the Company in consideration of the issue of Compass Group PLC ordinary shares on the basis of 1.835 for every CGH share.
Numbers and prices given are relative to Compass Group PLC.
O ptions granted under the international sharesave plan represent appreciation rights over the number of shares shown.
In the event of exercise, holders will receive a number of shares calculated by reference to the increase in the market price at the time of exercise over the option price.
An analysis of options held by directors at 30 September 2004 is set out in the Remuneration Committees report on pages 62 and 63.
Consolidated profit and loss account Share Capital Before premium redemption Merger goodwill Goodwill account reserve reserve written off written off Total 20 Reserves m m m m m m Group At 1 October 2003 84 7 4,170 233 2,132 1,899 Foreign exchange reserve movements 17 17 Premium on ordinary shares issued, net of expenses 9 Repurchase and cancellation of shares 2 69 69 Retained loss for the year 20 20 At 30 September 2004 93 9 4,170 127 2,132 2,005 Goodwill written off represents the excess of the consideration for the operations acquired prior to 1 October 1998 over the fair value of the net assets acquired.
The goodwill has been written off to profit and loss reserve on consolidation.
Share Capital Profit premium redemption and loss account reserve account m m m Company At 1 October 2003 84 7 475 Premium on ordinary shares issued, net of expenses 9 Repurchase and cancellation of shares 2 69 Retained profit for the year 20 At 30 September 2004 93 9 426 Compass Group PLC 87 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21 Acquisitions Businesses acquired during the year are shown below.
Adjustments have been made to reflect the provisional fair value of assets and liabilities acquired as follows: Accounting Fair value Consideration Net assets Fair value policy of assets and costs acquired adjustments realignment acquired Goodwill Dates m m m m m m Creative Host 18 February 2004 19 4 4 15 Olland 1 March 2004 20 4 1 3 17 Mitropa 2 April 2004 27 12 3 9 18 Convenco 30 March 2004 11 4 3 1 10 Others 106 12 6 1 5 101 Total acquisitions in the year 183 36 13 1 22 161 Adjustments to prior periods: Deferred consideration payable 5 5 Adjustments to net assets acquired 4 4 4 5 4 4 1 188 36 9 1 26 162 Accounting Net assets Fair value policy Fair value acquired adjustments realignment to the Group m m m m Intangible fixed assets 5 4 1 Tangible fixed assets 30 2 28 Fixed asset investments 9 2 7 Stocks 5 1 4 Debtors 23 2 25 Cash 21 21 Loans and overdrafts 9 2 7 Leases 2 1 3 Creditors 45 11 56 Provisions 2 3 5 Tax 2 8 6 Minority interests 3 3 6 36 9 1 26 All acquisitions were accounted for under the acquisitions method of accounting.
Fair value adjustments principally relate to asset valuation adjustments, recognising pension commitments and other liabilities not previously recorded.
Adjustments made to the fair value of assets of businesses acquired in 2004 are provisional owing to the short period of ownership.
Adjustments to prior year acquisitions relate to the restatement of the values of assets and liabilities in the light of knowledge arising from a more extended period of ownership and additional consideration and costs, all in respect of acquisitions made during the year ended 30 September 2003.
There was no material difference between operating profits arising from acquisitions and cash flows contributed by those acquisitions.
88 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pensions Pension schemes operated The Group operates a number of pension arrangements throughout the world which have been developed in accordance with statutory requirements and local customs and practices.
The majority of schemes are self administered and the schemes assets are held independently of the Groups finances.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
UK Schemes Within the UK there are two main arrangements: i Compass Group Final Salary Pension Plan ii Compass Pension Scheme A third arrangement, the Compass Retirement Income Savings Plan CRISP was launched on 1 February 2003.
This is the main vehicle for pension provision for new joiners in the UK but existing members of the two plans mentioned above will continue to accrue benefits under those arrangements.
CRISP is a contracted-in money purchase arrangement whereby the Group will match employee contributions up to 6% of pay minimum 3%.
The Compass Group Final Salary Pension Plan and the Compass Pension Scheme are defined benefit arrangements operated on a prefunded basis.
The funding policy is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the Actuary, as achieves a 100% funding level on a projected salary basis.
The actuarial assessments covering expense and contributions are carried out by independent qualified actuaries.
The Compass Pension Scheme was set up from 1 February 2001 to mirror the Granada Pension Scheme and accept the seamless transfer of pension rights for the former Granada Compass plc employees who transferred to Compass Group PLC.
All accrued rights in respect of the Granada Pension Scheme of and in respect of the employees and former employees including pensioners of, or who are attributed to, the hospitality businesses previously owned by Granada Compass plc were transferred to the Compass Pension Scheme together with an agreed share of all the assets of the Granada Pension Scheme under the terms of a specific agreement.
The share of assets was determined on a share of fund basis, whereby the assets transferred were in the same proportion of all the relevant assets of the Granada Pension Scheme as the liabilities transferred to the Compass Pension Scheme bear to the whole of the relevant liabilities of the Granada Pension Scheme.
This has been calculated as approximately 30% but is subject to the final agreement between the actuaries of the respective Schemes and to all applicable legal and Inland Revenue requirements being met.
An interim transfer was made at the end of October 2001 and a further payment in June 2003.
The final transfer of assets adjustment is not finalised.
Any balancing amount is expected to be small and positive.
Overseas Schemes In the USA the main plan is a defined benefit plan.
The funding policy, in accordance with government guidelines, is to contribute such variable amounts, on the advice of the actuary, as achieves a 100% funding level on a projected salary basis.
In Denmark, the Netherlands and Ireland the Group operates insured defined benefit pension plans where the Group contributions represent the insurance companies assessment of the annual cost of the benefits earned in that year.
In Switzerland the Group participates in funded defined benefit arrangements.
In other countries Group employees participate primarily in state arrangements to which the Group makes the appropriate contributions.
The pension cost of these plans for the year was 70 million 2003: 60 million of which 50 million 2003: 39 million relates to overseas plans.
Of the total cost of 70 million, 48 million 2003: 43 million relates to defined benefit schemes and 22 million 2003: 17 million relates to defined contribution schemes.
The pension cost of the Compass Group Final Salary Pension Plan the Plan for the year to 30 September 2004 has been assessed in accordance with the advice of professionally qualified consulting actuaries based in the UK on an actuarial valuation at 6 April 2001.
This was made using the projected unit credit method.
The pension cost of the Compass Pension Scheme the Scheme for the year to 30 September 2004 has been similarly assessed based on an actuarial valuation at 31 December 2001.
An actuarial valuation for 2004 is in progress but has not yet been completed.
The most significant actuarial assumptions adopted for determining pension costs and contributions were as follows: i Rate of return on investments 6.5% per annum ii Rate of increase in pensionable pay 4.0% per annum iii Rate of increase in pension 3.0% per annum The asset valuation method used was the market value approach.
The market value of the Plans assets was 157 million as at 6 April 2001.
The results of the valuation on the above basis showed that the value of the assets at 6 April 2001 represented 99% of the value of the accrued benefits after allowing for expected future increases in pensionable pay and pensions.
Payments to the Plan in the year total 10 million 2003: 11 million more than the profit and loss pension cost, consequently, this amount is included within prepayments.
The total prepayment is 24 million 2003: 14 million.
The market value of the Schemes assets as at 31 December 2001 was 447 million.
The results of the valuation on the above basis showed that the value of the assets represented 112% of the value of the accrued benefits at 31 December 2001 after allowing for expected future increases in pensionable pay and pensions.
Payments to the Scheme total 4 million 2003: 4 million more than the profit and loss pension cost which has been charged against provisions for liabilities and charges.
Compass Group PLC 89 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pensions continued There have been no material changes to the pension arrangements since the valuation and review dates although both the Plan and Scheme are effectively closed to new entrants.
The assets are held in separate funds administered by trustees and are independent of the Groups finances.
The assets in the US Group final salary pension plan had a market value of $98 million as at 30 June 2004 representing 71% of the accrued benefits under the scheme, after allowing for expected future increases in pensionable pay and pensions in the course of payment.
The actuarial method used to value this scheme is the projected unit credit method.
The most significant assumptions used for the US Group final salary pension plan were: i Expected rate of return on assets 8.5% per annum ii Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.0% per annum iii Discount rate 6.2% per annum The amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of the US Group was 11 million 2003: 9 million and the basis of this charge was in accordance with the advice of professionally qualified consulting actuaries based in the US.
At the balance sheet date outstanding employer and employee contributions for all schemes amount to 15 million and 1 million respectively.
Unfunded Pension Liabilities Unfunded pension liabilities have accrued for a total of 43 individuals.
The total value of the unfunded liabilities at 30 September 2004 was 21 million 2003: 20 million which has been provided for in full.
The Group makes employer contributions to the various schemes in existence within the range of 6%-30% of pensionable salaries.
FRS 17 disclosures On 30 November 2000, the Accounting Standards Board introduced a new standard, FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, replacing SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
Additional disclosures in respect of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are required under the transitional provisions of FRS 17.
The defined benefit schemes are closed to new entrants.
For these schemes the current service cost will increase under the projected unit credit method as the members of the schemes approach retirement.
Disclosures showing the assets and liabilities of the schemes are set out below.
The assets and liabilities of the major schemes operated by the Group and the effect that adoption of FRS 17 would have had on the Groups profit and loss reserves are shown below: UK schemes US schemes Other schemes Total schemes Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term expected expected expected expected 30 September 2004 rate of return m rate of return m rate of return m rate of return m Equities 8.0% 399 8.0% 43 6.7% 38 7.9% 480 Bonds 5.0% 272 5.7% 16 3.9% 46 4.9% 334 Other assets 4.8% 1 2.2% 1 3.2% 34 3.2% 36 Market value 672 60 118 850 Liabilities 952 143 181 1,276 Deficit 280 83 63 426 Deferred tax asset 84 29 22 135 Net FRS 17 liability 196 54 41 291 Net FRS 17 liability 291 Reverse existing provisions assets net of deferred tax 184 Reverse existing SSAP 24 prepayment for Group pension schemes 24 Net adjustment which would result from the adoption of FRS 17 131 Profit and loss reserve as reported 2,005 Profit and loss reserve on a FRS 17 basis 2,136 90 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pensions continued UK schemes US schemes Other schemes Total schemes Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term expected expected expected expected 30 September 2003 rate of return m rate of return m rate of return m rate of return m Equities 6.5% 405 8.0% 38 7.2% 29 6.7% 472 Bonds 5.0% 198 5.7% 18 3.8% 38 4.9% 254 Other assets 0.0% 3 2.6% 1 2.4% 42 2.2% 46 Market value 606 57 109 772 Liabilities 828 130 180 1,138 Deficit 222 73 71 366 Deferred tax asset 67 26 26 119 Net FRS 17 liability 155 47 45 247 Net FRS 17 liability 247 Reverse existing provisions assets net of deferred tax 182 Reverse existing SSAP 24 prepayment for Group pension schemes 14 Net adjustment which would result from the adoption of FRS 17 79 Profit and loss reserve as reported 1,899 Profit and loss reserve on a FRS 17 basis 1,978 UK schemes US schemes Other schemes Total schemes Long-term Long-term Long-term Long-term expected expected expected expected 30 September 2002 rate of return m rate of return m rate of return m rate of return m Equities 6.5% 335 7.8% 38 7.1% 24 6.7% 397 Bonds 5.0% 186 5.3% 18 3.9% 12 5.0% 216 Other assets 0.0% 14 1.8% 2 3.3% 29 2.2% 45 Market value 535 58 65 658 Liabilities 730 131 85 946 Deficit 195 73 20 288 Deferred tax asset 58 26 7 91 Net FRS 17 liability 137 47 13 197 Net FRS 17 liability 197 Reverse existing provisions assets net of deferred tax 150 Reverse existing SSAP 24 prepayment for Group pension schemes 3 Net adjustment which would result from the adoption of FRS 17 50 Profit and loss reserve as reported 1,635 Profit and loss reserve on a FRS 17 basis 1,685 Compass Group PLC 91 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 22 Pensions continued The FRS 17 deficit has increased during the year ended 30 September 2004 as set out below: 2004 2003 m m As at 1 October 2003 366 288 Acquisitions 4 20 Current service costs 34 36 Curtailment credit 6 3 Contributions paid 53 46 Past service costs 6 1 Other financial costs 19 18 Actuarial losses 64 50 Exchange rate gains losses 8 2 As at 30 September 2004 426 366 Had the Group adopted FRS 17 early, the following amounts would have been included in the profit and loss account: 2004 2003 m m Current service cost 34 36 Past service cost 6 1 Curtailment credit 6 3 Total which would have been charged to total operating profit under FRS 17 34 34 Expected return on scheme assets 45 39 Interest cost discount on scheme liabilities 64 57 Net amount which would have been included as other financial costs under FRS 17 19 18 Total which would have been charged to profit before taxation 53 52 2004 2003 2002 % of scheme % of scheme % of scheme m assets liabilities m assets liabilities m assets liabilities In addition, the following amounts would have been recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses: Difference between actual and expected return on scheme assets 30 3.5 47 6.1 147 22.4 Experience losses on scheme liabilities 36 2.8 29 2.5 47 4.9 Changes in assumptions 58 4.5 68 6.0 117 12.5 Actuarial losses 64 5.4 50 4.4 77 8.1 Exchange rate gains losses 8 2 5 56 52 72 Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 23 Contingent liabilities m m m m Performance bonds and guarantees of indemnities and overdrafts of subsidiary and associated undertakings 188 170 246 113 2004 2003 24 Capital commitments m m Group Contracted for but not provided for 26 21 92 Compass Group PLC Notes to the Financial Statements continued 25 Operating lease and concessions commitments The Group was committed to making the following payments during the next year in respect of operating leases and concessions agreements: 2004 2003 Operating leases Operating leases Other Other Land and Other occupancy Land and Other occupancy buildings assets rentals buildings assets rentals m m m m m m Commitments which expire: Within one year 18 20 15 12 22 19 Between two and five years 36 20 44 31 22 52 In more than five years 34 3 33 25 4 35 88 43 92 68 48 106 26 Post balance sheet event On 4 November 2004, the Group agreed to acquire in December 2004 for 41 million 30% of the share capital in Onama S. p. A. the Groups Italian catering business.
This will bring the Groups shareholding in Onama S. p. A. to 90%.
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2 2 27 7 7 F F Fiiiv v five e e y y ye e ea a ar r r s s su u um m mm m ma a ar r ry y y m m m m m Excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Turnover 5,770 8,716 10,617 11,286 11,772 Total operating profit 356 676 805 797 775 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 278 583 654 661 645 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 209 456 479 492 493 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 pence pence pence pence pence Basic earnings per ordinary share 13.3 19.8 20.5 20.8 21.1 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 m m m m m After exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Turnover 5,770 8,716 10,617 11,286 11,772 Total operating profit 309 347 533 521 500 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 231 254 382 358 370 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 165 162 244 215 218 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 pence pence pence pence pence Basic earnings per ordinary share 10.4 6.6 10.0 8.3 8.3 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 pence pence pence pence pence Net dividends per share 3.3 5.7 7.1 8.4 9.3 Earnings per share and dividends per share have been restated as if the post-demerger capital structure of Compass Group PLC had existed throughout the five-year period.
During 2000 Compass Group Holdings PLC formerly Compass Group PLC paid an interim dividend of 1.1 pence per share as restated and the hospitality businesses declared a 121 million final dividend payable to Granada Compass plc in order for it to meet its dividend obligations.
A pro forma final dividend for 2000 of 2.2 pence per share has been included above reflecting Compass Groups policy to have a final dividend representing approximately two thirds of its total annual dividend.
Compass Group PLC 93 Notes to the Financial Statements continued 28 Details of principal subsidiary companies Country of registration or incorporation Principal activities England and Wales Compass Group, UK & Ireland Ltd. Holding company for the provision of foodservice in the UK Compass Contract Services UK Ltd. Trading company for the provision of foodservice in the UK Moto Hospitality Ltd. Trading company for the UK motorway service area business Letheby & Christopher Ltd. Trading company for the UK sports and events foodservice business Select Service Partner Ltd. Trading company for the UK travel, leisure and concessions business Scolarest Ltd. Trading company for the provision of foodservices to the UK education market Selecta UK Ltd. Trading company for the provision of vending foodservice in the UK Compass Group Holdings PLC Holding company and corporate activities Hospitality Holdings Ltd. Intermediate holding company Continental Europe and the Rest of the World Compass Group France SAS, France Holding company for the provision of foodservice in France Eurest France SA Trading company for the provision of foodservice in France Compass Group Deutschland GmbH, Germany Holding company for the provision of foodservice in Germany Eurest Deutschland GmbH, Germany Trading company for the provision of foodservice in Germany Compass Group Holdings Spain, S. L. Holding company for the provision of foodservice in Spain Eurest S. A. Spain Trading company for the in-flight foodservice business in Spain Eurest Colectividades S. A. Spain Trading company for the provision of foodservice in Spain Compass Group Nederland Holdings BV Holding company for the provision of foodservice in the Netherlands Compass Group Nederland BV Trading company for the provision of foodservice in the Netherlands Selecta Group AG, Switzerland Holding company for the provision of vending foodservice in Continental Europe Selecta AG, Switzerland Trading company for the provision of vending foodservice in Switzerland Selecta SA, France Trading company for the provision of vending foodservice in France Rail Gourmet AG, Switzerland Holding company for the provision of onboard rail foodservice in Continental Europe and the UK Onama S. p. A. Italy 60% Trading company for the provision of foodservice in Italy Restorama AG, Switzerland Trading company for the provision of foodservice in Switzerland Compass Group International BV, the Netherlands Holding and financing company for the Groups operations in Continental Europe and the rest of the world Eurest Support Services Cyprus International Ltd, Trading company for the provision of integrated support services to the defence, Cyprus offshore and remote site sectors Compass Group Holdings Japan K. K. 80% Holding company for the provision of foodservice in Japan Seiyo Food Systems Inc. Japan 79.4% Trading company for the provision of foodservice in Japan USA Compass Holdings, Inc. Holding company for the provision of foodservice in the USA Compass Group USA, Inc. Trading company for the provision of foodservice in the USA Morrison Management Specialists, Inc. Trading company for the provision of foodservice to the USA healthcare market Crothall Services Group Trading company for the provision of facilities management services to the USA healthcare market Flik International Corp. Trading company for the provision of executive fine dining facilities in the USA The Patina Group LLC Trading company for the provision of executive fine dining facilities in the USA Bon Apptit Management Co. Trading company for the provision of foodservice in the USA Restaurant Associates Corp. Trading company for the provision of executive fine dining facilities in the USA All companies listed above are wholly owned by the Group, except where otherwise indicated.
Held directly by the parent company.
Particulars of certain subsidiary companies, none of which is material to the financial statements, are omitted and a complete list will be attached to the forthcoming annual return.
All interests are in the ordinary share capital.
All companies operate principally in their country of incorporation, except for Eurest Support Services Cyprus International Ltd. which operates worldwide.
