qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 35 Explanation of Special Business to be dealt with at the 2004 Annual General Meeting Resolution 9 Adoption of new Articles of Association Electronic Communications 86, 88, 91, The administration of companies was modernised with the entry into The Company's Articles of Association were adopted on 10th January 1996.
The Order provides that companies may use forms of Since adoption, there have been important changes to company law and 167, 169, electronic communication as broadly defined in the Order notwithstanding practice, most notably the coming into force of the Electronic Communications 170 the provisions of their Existing Articles.
"Accordingly, any company with Act 2000 the ""Order"", the Uncertificated Securities Regulation 2001 the articles of association which do not provide for the use of electronic ""2001 Regulations"" and The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares communication will have a means of communication available to it which is not reflected in its articles of association."
"It is therefore Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the ""2003 Regulations""."
There have recommended that the Company amends the Existing Articles to reflect also been initiatives relating to corporate governance that have led to, for the means of electronic communication now permitted by the Order.
example, the revision of the Combined Code on corporate governance.
"There is now a need to bring the Company's Articles of Association the The New Articles will enable the Company to deal directly with ""Existing Articles"" up to date."
"Subject to the approval of shareholders at shareholders by electronic means and, in particular, to: the Annual General Meeting, the Company proposes to adopt entirely new - distribute company information for example, annual reports and Articles of Association the ""New Articles""."
The following is a summary of accounts electronically rather than by post: the principal changes contained in the New Articles, where appropriate, as compared with the Existing Articles.
- send notices of meetings electronically to an address provided by the shareholders: and - allow shareholders to appoint proxies and give the Company voting Article Comment instructions electronically.
Interpretation Proceedings at general meetings 2 The New Articles incorporate certain new definitions having regard to 59, 64 The New Articles empowers the Board, if it decides that for reasons beyond the 2003 Regulations, the Order and the 2001 Regulations.
its control it is impractical and unreasonable to hold a proposed or adjourned general meeting at the declared place or time or both, or to change the Uncertificated Shares place or postpone the time at which the meeting is to be held.
The Board 14, 32, 36, The 2001 Regulations revise the previous uncertificated securities must advertise the change in at least two national newspapers and at 37, 38, 41, regulations, and so changes are suggested to reflect the new legislation the original place or at the original time or both of the meeting.
52, 59, and to clarify in more detail how certificated and uncertificated shares 149, 150 are to be dealt with in particular circumstances.
The New Articles provides that the Board may decide that only those members entered on the Company's register may be entitled to receive The New Articles provide that the Company shall not issue certificates notice of a meeting or documents required to be sent under section 328 in respect of uncertificated shares and empower the directors to of the Act.
A notice of a meeting may specify a time by which a person implement any arrangements they may think fit in relation to the must be entered on the Company's Register of Members to have the evidencing and transfer of uncertificated shares.
The New Articles also right to attend or vote at the Meeting.
provide for the conversion of certificated shares and uncertificated shares and vice versa in accordance with the 2001 Regulations.
Borrowing Limit - The limit on the Directors' powers to incur borrowings has been reduced Transfers of uncertificated shares are to be made in accordance with the from six to two times the value of the adjusted capital and reserves.
It is 2001 Regulations and the rules of the relevant system whilst transfers of a recommendation of the Association of British Insurers that Directors' certificated shares will continue to require an instrument of transfer in powers to incur borrowings without shareholder approval be limited to writing.
The Board may only refuse to register the transfer of certificated shares.
The Company is currently well within this new limit and Treasury Shares the Board does not consider that the reduction in borrowing limit will 10, 81, The 2003 Regulations now allow companies to hold up to 10 per cent.
have any material impact on the Company's operations.
143, 146, of each class of shares acquired by way of market purchase as treasury Directors Fees 156 shares rather than having to cancel them.
Such shares may be 99 Non-executive directors are entitled to remuneration for their services.
subsequently cancelled or sold for cash at a later date or for purposes The limit on aggregate fees payable to non-executive directors is to of the Company's share award or share option plans.
It is an Association of The Company may consider holding in treasury any of its shares acquired by British Insurers guideline that a listed public company's articles of way of market purchase pursuant to an authority granted by shareholders.
association should contain a limit on non-executive directors' fees.
The Existing Articles have been amended in a number of places to take Retirement of Directors into account the possible existence of treasury shares and their rights.
102, 103 The Existing Articles provided for one third of the Directors to retire from The New Articles prevents the Company from exercising any voting office on a rotation basis at every Annual General Meeting.
The Combined rights in respect of shares held in treasury, receiving distributions and Code requires each Director to be subject to re-election at an interval of no dividends in respect of treasury shares save for bonus issue of shares more than three years and at the first annual general meeting after their or payment of any amount payable on redemption of redeemable appointment.
Accordingly the New Articles have been amended to treasury shares or including treasury shares in any calculation of the make that clear.
qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 36 Explanation of Special Business to be dealt with at the 2004 Annual General Meeting contined The Combined Code requires that non-executive directors who have served Resolution 12 Political donations for nine years or more should be subject to annual re-appointment.
Resolution 12 concerns the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums The proposed New Articles reflects this.
Any donations to political organisations or political Security for personal liability of Directors expenditure by a company in excess of an aggregate of 5,000 must be in relation to sums due by the Company authorised by the Company's shareholders.
There is no present intention to 176 The New Articles provide that, where a Director or other person becomes make cash donations to any political party.
The Company as part of its personally liable for an amount primarily due from the Company, the Board normal business activity may wish to have contact with political parties to may execute a mortgage charge or security over all, or part of, the Company's ensure that they are aware of the key business issues affecting its business.
assets to indemnify that Director against any loss incurred in respect of Under PPERA the definition of political expenditure and donations to that liability.
political organisations is extremely wide and may be construed as covering Provisions covered by the Act such areas of the Company's normal business activities.
It is therefore - Certain provisions have been deleted as they repeat the Act.
Examples considered appropriate that a resolution be put to shareholders in general include Article 157 of the Existing Articles relating to the sending of terms.
The Company will disclose in its next annual report, in compliance statutory accounts to each member.
with PPERA, any expenditure or donations in excess of 200 which is within the ambits of the definitions of PPERA.
Outdated or unnecessary provisions - Certain provisions have been deleted as being out of date or unnecessary.
Examples include Articles 52 to 55 of the Existing Articles Resolution 13 Purchase of own Shares relating to the issue and use of stock and Article 98 of the Existing Articles relating to appointment of associate directors.
The New Articles contain a provision allowing the directors to purchase the Company's own shares subject to the prior authority of the members having been obtained.
The resolution will be proposed as a special Resolution 10 Authority to issue Shares resolution for the purpose of seeking general authority to effect such Resolution 10 would authorise the Directors, for a period of 15 months from purchases within the limits set out.
The Directors are of the opinion that it 25th January 2005 or to the next Annual General Meeting whichever is the would be advantageous for the Company to be in a position to purchase its earlier, to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of own shares through the London Stock Exchange, should market conditions and price justify such action.
The proposed authority would enable the 11,000,000, consisting of 44,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each and Company to purchase up to a maximum of 13,200,000 ordinary shares, which represents approximately 33 per cent.
of the total ordinary share being 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital on 30th November capital in issue on 30th November 2004 the last practicable date prior to 2004 the latest practical date prior to the publication of this document, with the publication of this document.
The Company does not currently hold a stated upper limit on the price payable which reflects the requirements of any shares as treasury shares within the meaning of section 162A of the Act the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
"Purchases would only ""treasury shares""."
Save in respect of the issue of new ordinary shares be made after the most careful consideration, where the directors believed pursuant to the share incentive schemes, the Directors currently have no that an increase in earnings or net assets per share would result and where present intention to allot relevant securities but the Directors believe it to be purchases were, in the opinion of the directors, in the best interests of the in the interests of the Company for the board to be granted this authority to Company and its shareholders.
The Directors consider that it is prudent to enable the board to take advantage of appropriate opportunities which may obtain the proposed authority, although the Board does not yet have the arise in the future.
intention to implement this strategy.
The total number of options to subscribe for equity shares that are Resolution 11 Disapplication of pre-emption rights outstanding on 30th November 2004 the last practicable date prior to the Resolution 11 seeks to disapply the pre-emption right provisions of section publication of this document is 3,694,322.
of 89 of the Act in respect of the allotment of equity securities including a sale the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company was to purchase the of treasury shares pursuant to rights issues and other pre-emptive issues maximum number of ordinary shares permitted pursuant to the authority or offers and in respect of other issues of equity securities including sales conferred by Resolution 13, then these options would represent 3.1 per of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,650,000, cent.
of the reduced issued share capital excluding any treasury shares.
of the issued ordinary share capital on 30th The Act permits companies to hold shares acquired by way of market November 2004 the last practicable date prior to the publication of this purchases as described above in treasury, rather than having to cancel document.
If approved by shareholders, this power will expire 15 months them.
The Company would consider holding any of its own shares that it after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the end of the next purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution as treasury Annual General Meeting.
The Directors have no present intention of shares.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares exercising their authority pursuant to this disapplication, but, as in previous quickly and cost effectively, and would provide the Company with additional years, they consider it desirable that they have the flexibility to act in the flexibility in the management of its capital base.
best interests of the Company when opportunities arise.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to treasury shares.
