qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 33 Notice of annual general meeting Notice Is Hereby Given that the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of 11.
THAT, the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant Shaftesbury PLC will be held at Pegasus House, 37 43 Sackville Street, to section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities within the London W1S 3DL, on 25th January 2005 at 10.00 a. m. for the following meaning of section 94 of the Act : purposes: a. for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 10: or Ordinary Business b. by way of the sale of treasury shares within the meaning of 1.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements for the year section 162A of the Act, for cash, ended 30th September 2004, and the reports of the Directors and as if, in either case, subsection 1 of Section 89 of the Act did not auditors.
apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be 2.
To approve the report of the Remuneration Committee for the year limited to the allotment of equity securities: ended 30th September 2004. i. in connection with a rights issue or open offer or other issue or 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30th September 2004 offer to ordinary shareholders other than the Company on the Company's Register of Members on a fixed record date in of 2.90p per ordinary share.
proportion as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of 4.
To re-elect B Bickell as a Director of the Company.
ordinary shares of 25 pence each held by them subject to such exclusion or other arrangement as the Directors may deem 5.
To re-elect T J C Welton as a Director of the Company.
necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or 6.
To re-elect A W MacDonald as a Director of the Company.
legal or practical problems under the laws of, or requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange, in any 7.
To re-elect P J Manser Chairman and chairman of the Audit and territory: and Nomination Committees as a Director of the Company.
otherwise than pursuant to subparagraph i above up to an 8.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditors and to aggregate nominal value of 1,650,000 consisting of 6,600,000 authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
ordinary shares of 25 pence each, and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Special Business Meeting of the Company or 15 months from 25 January 2005 if To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as ordinary earlier save that the Company may before such expiry make an resolutions in the case of resolutions 10 and 12 and as special resolutions offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities in the case of resolutions 9, 11 and 13: to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power 9.
THAT the regulations contained in the printed document tabled at conferred hereby had not expired.
the Meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose of identification be and hereby are approved and adopted as the 12.
THAT the Company and any company which is or becomes a Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for and to subsidiary of the Company during the period to which this the exclusion of all the existing Articles of Association of the resolution relates be and is hereby authorised pursuant to Part XA Company.
of the Act as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and Referendum Act 2000, to make donations to EU political 10.
"THAT, in substitution for all previous authorities pursuant to organisations and to incur EU political expenditure in the period section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the ""Act"", which are hereby ending at the conclusion of the Company's next Annual General revoked, but without prejudice to any allotment of securities Meeting provided that any such donations and or EU political pursuant thereto, the Directors be and they are hereby generally expenditure made or incurred by the Company in the period does and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 80 of not exceed an aggregate of 100,000: provided further that the the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant Company shall not use the authority granted other than in securities as defined in section 80 2 of the Act up to an aggregate continuation of its business activities and that the Company's nominal amount of 11,000,000 consisting of 44,000,000 ordinary policy of making no direct contributions to political parties shall shares of 25 pence each, such authority to expire at the conclusion remain unchanged."
"For the purposes of this resolution, the terms of the next Annual General Meeting or 15 months from 25 January ""donations"", ""EU political organisations"" and ""EU political 2005 if earlier save that the Company may before such expiry make expenditure"" have the meanings ascribed thereto in Part XA of the an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant Act as amended by the Political Parties, Elections and securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may Referendum Act 2000. allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired."
Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2004 57 Shaftesbury Back Section.
qxd 13 12 04 9:59 am Page 34 Notice of annual general meeting continued Notes: 13.
THAT the Company is hereby unconditionally and generally authorised to make market purchases as defined in section 163 3 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend of the Act of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy for use by members is enclosed.
Forms of proxy must be lodged with the Registrar not provided that: less than 48 hours before the Meeting.
i. the maximum number of ordinary shares of 25 pence each 2.
Appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member from attending and voting in person hereby authorised to be purchased is 13,200,000 representing at the Meeting.
of the issued share capital of the 3.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations Company as at 30th September 2004 : 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00 p. m. on 23rd January 2005 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the ii.
the minimum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid Meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
for each such ordinary share is 0.25: Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00 p. m. on 23rd January 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the iii.
the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid Meeting.
for each such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to not more 4.
The Register of Directors' Interest of the Company kept under section 325 of the Act and than 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market copies of Directors contracts of service may be inspected at the registered office of the quotations for such share as derived from the Daily Official List Company during normal business hours on weekdays public holidays excepted from the of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days date of this notice to the date of the Annual General Meeting, and at the place of the immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted Meeting from 9.00 a. m. until the conclusion of the Meeting.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, a copy of the New Articles will be available for inspection from the date of despatch of the Notice of iv.
unless previously renewed, varied or revoked, the authority Meeting until close of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Company and on the Investor Relations section of the Company's website.
The New Annual General Meeting of the Company: and Articles will also be available for inspection at the place of the Meeting from 9.00 a. m. until the conclusion of the Meeting.
v. the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares 6.
Biographical details of the Directors standing for re-appointment are set out on pages under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such 24 to 25 of the 2004 Annual Report.
authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly at the expiry of such authority, and may make a purchase of its own shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By Order of the Board Brian Bickell Pegasus House Secretary 37 43 Sackville Street 17th December 2004 London W1S 3DL 58
