72 Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 Accounting policies Basis of accounting Property valuation These financial statements have been prepared on the basis of The Groups completed investment properties and land held for or historical costs but incorporating property valuations, and in under development were externally valued as at 31 December by accordance with applicable Accounting Standards and, except for CB Richard Ellis or DTZ Debenham Tie Leung or Colliers Conrad the depreciation of investment properties, with the Companies Act Ritblat Erdman in the United Kingdom, in the USA by Walden- 1985.
An explanation of the departure from the requirements of Marling, Inc. in Belgium by fide Crombrugghe & Partners s. a. and the Act is given below in the depreciation note.
in France by CB Richard Ellis Bourdais.
The value of investments in subsidiaries, associate and joint The valuations have been prepared on the basis of market value in ventures has been adjusted to reflect the underlying net asset accordance with the relevant guidance notes on the valuation of values see note 14. property assets applicable to each country.
The valuers have made the normal deductions for hypothetical purchasers costs in The company has taken advantage of the exemption provided by arriving at their valuations in the UK.
Each property has been Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985 from presenting its own valued individually and not as part of a portfolio.
No account has profit and loss account.
been taken of any inter-company leases or arrangements, nor of any mortgages, debentures or other charges, and no allowance Accounting standards has been made for any expenses of realisation, nor for any The Group has implemented the transitional disclosure taxation which might arise in the event of a disposal.
The figures requirements of FRS17 Retirement Benefits.
These disclosure also do not reflect any element of special purchaser value requirements, together with the requirements of SSAP24, are set following a merger of interests or sale to an owner or occupier of out in note 24. an adjoining property.
Consolidation The valuations have been prepared on the basis of information The consolidated financial statements comprise the results of the provided to the respective valuers by the Group relating to title, company and its subsidiaries, made up to 31 December, together tenure, lettings, site and floor areas, planning consents and other with the Groups share of net profits and losses and reserves of its relevant information.
Valuers were instructed to assume that no associate and joint ventures.
deleterious materials or techniques had been used in the construction of any of the buildings and not to carry out structural Foreign currencies surveys.
The valuers were also instructed to assume that, unless Assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currency and profits and informed to the contrary, the properties are not, or likely to be, losses of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at yearaffected by land contamination and have assumed that the cost of end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on revenue items any decontamination work would be immaterial unless advised to are reflected in the profit and loss account, together with any the contrary.
In addition, the valuers have assumed that there are translation differences arising on currency borrowings which are not no ground conditions which would affect the present or future covered by translation differences arising on investments in currency uses of the properties.
All other translation differences are reflected in reserves.
The surpluses and deficiencies arising attributable to the Group are reflected in unrealised capital reserves.
To the extent that projects have not been included in the valuation review, they are included at cost or at the directors assessment of open market value.
Buildings under construction are valued at cost.
Slough Estates plc | Annual Report 2004 73 Turnover Trading properties Turnover comprises: 1 rents, adjusted for lease incentives, and Unless pre-sold, properties are held at the lower of cost, including recharges charged to tenants: 2 the net realised value of trading finance costs, and market value.
Pre-sold properties are stated at properties and the value of work, including attributable profit, cost plus attributable profits less losses, where the outcome can carried out during the year on pre-sold trading property be assessed with reasonable certainty, less progress payments developments: 3 the amounts charged to utilities customers receivable.
Attributable profit consists of the relevant proportion for electricity, water and steam and Tipperary customers for oil of the total estimated profit appropriate to the progress made in and gas.
Cost includes direct expenditure and interest.
Depreciation Land that is re-classified for trading purposes is transferred from a Properties: In accordance with SSAP19, no depreciation is fixed assets to current assets at current market value.
provided in respect of freehold investment properties or leasehold investment properties with over 20 years to run.
This treatment Stocks is a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act Stocks, excluding trading properties, are valued at cost, on a first concerning depreciation of fixed assets.
However, these in, first out basis, or net realisable value, whichever is the lower.
properties are not held for consumption but for investment and the directors consider that systematic annual depreciation Investments would be inappropriate.
Investments held as current assets are stated at the lower of cost and directors assessment of current market value.
The accounting policy adopted is therefore necessary for the financial statements to give a true and fair view.
Depreciation or Deferred taxation amortisation is only one of the many factors reflected in the annual Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result valuation and the amount which might otherwise have been in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a shown cannot reasonably be separately identified or quantified.
right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing b Depreciation is provided on buildings occupied by the Group differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and and is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated lives expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from of the buildings: mainly 20-30 years.
those in which they are included in the accounts.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation c Plant and equipment: No depreciation is charged where of tangible fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the plant and equipment is provided in the Groups premises for the asset.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is use of its tenants, as it is covered by the full repairing covenant regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
embodied in the respective leases.
Other plant and equipment Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
operated by the Group in the normal course of business is depreciated after an initial commissioning period in the case Pensions of utilities on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life: The company has a number of defined benefit pension plans mainly 10-25 years.
which are funded with assets held separately from those of the company.
Contributions are charged to the profit and loss Capitalisation of interest account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the employees working lives with the company.
The regular cost is attributed Interest costs incurred in funding land for or under development, construction work in progress and major construction programmes to individual years using the projected unit method.
Variations in pension cost, which are identified as a result of actuarial for the utilities plant are capitalised during the period of development.
valuations, are amortised over the average expected remaining working lives of employees.
Differences between the amounts funded and the amounts charged to the profit and loss account are treated as either provisions or prepayments in the balance sheet.
