Notice of Annual General Meeting continued v a new Article 43 is inserted before the Heading General iii the words and shall not be taken into account in determining of the meeting, iii whether the meeting is to be an Market purchases of ordinary shares: Resolution 9 Meetings as follows: the directors who are to retire by rotation at the meeting be annual or extraordinary general meeting and iv such The Board considers that it would be in the best interests of the The Company may not exercise any right in respect of deleted from the end of existing Article 91. other information as the Statutes may prescribe.
Company and its shareholders to renew for a further year the existing authority granted at the Annual General Meeting on treasury shares held by it, including any right to attend or 135 2 Any amendment or revocation of a notication given vote at meetings, to participate in any offer by the Company Electronic communications to the Company under this Article shall only take effect 29 January 2004 as amended at the Extraordinary General to shareholders or to receive any distribution including in i new Articles 1 5 a and b be inserted above the existing if in writing, signed by the member and on actual Meeting on 23 September 2004 to allow the Company to a winding-up, but without prejudice to its right to sell the Article 1 5 a as follows: receipt by the Company thereof.
purchase its own ordinary shares in the market.
treasury shares, to transfer the shares for the purposes of a references to communication and electronic 135 3 An electronic communication shall not be treated as or pursuant to an employees share scheme, to receive an communication shall have the same respective meanings received by the Company if it is rejected by computer In considering the purchase by the Company of its own ordinary allotment of shares as fully paid bonus shares in respect as in the Electronic Communications Act 2000, the latter virus protection arrangements.
shares, the directors will follow the procedures laid down in the of the treasury shares or to receive any amount payable including, without limitation, email, facsimile, CD-Rom, Act and will take into account cash resources, capital requirements and the effect of any purchase on appropriate gearing levels.
They on redemption of any redeemable treasury shares.
audio tape and telephone transmission and in the case and all other Articles be renumbered and cross references vi the words Article 43 and to, shall be inserted between of electronic communication by the Company publication updated accordingly.
will only consider exercising the authority when satisfied that it is the words subject to and any rights at the beginning on a website.
in the best interests of the Company to do so and when it would of the existing Article 61: b references to address shall include, in relation to By Order of the Board result in an increase in earnings per share.
vii the words or treasury shares shall be inserted after the electronic communication, any number or address used Ian Houghton, words authorised for issue in the existing Article 120 g. for the purposes of such communication.
Company Secretary The proposed authority would be limited to purchases of up to ii the words and but only to the extent that the recipient 14 October 2004 18,041,045 ordinary shares, which is 10 per cent of the Companys Unclaimed dividends if not the Company has requested or agreed electronic issued ordinary share capital as at 14 October 2004, made through the London Stock Exchange at prices not exceeding The word twelve in existing Article 119 be deleted and replaced communication be included at the end of the existing Registered Ofce: by six.
Article 1 5 a. Greenbridge Road, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 3RX 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations as iii the words other place in the United Kingdom in Article derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for Retirement of directors 68 a be replaced with address or one of such addresses Special business explanatory notes the five business days before each purchase.
The directors wish to emphasise that the maximum number of ordinary shares and i the existing Articles 85 to 87 be deleted and replaced with if any Authority to allot shares: Resolution 7 the following new Articles 85 and 86. iv a new Article 133 be inserted before the existing Article 133, Under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended the price range are stated merely for the purposes of compliance 85 1 Each director shall retire at the annual general as follows: the Act the directors of a company may only allot unissued with statutory and the UK Listing Authority requirements meeting held in the third calendar year following the SIGNATURE OF DOCUMENTS shares if authorised to do so by the shareholders in general in seeking this authority and should not be taken as any representation of the terms upon which the Company intends year in which he was appointed or last reappointed but, 133 Where under these articles a document requires to meeting.
This Resolution, if passed, will authorise the directors unless he falls within paragraph 85 2 below, he shall be signed by a member or other person then, if in the to allot unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal amount to make purchases.
form of an electronic communication, it must to be of 1,299,252, representing one third of the Companys issued 85 2 A director shall also retire at any annual general valid incorporate the electronic signature or personal ordinary share capital as at 14 October 2004.
The authority will The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or on 27 April 2006, whichever meeting if he has agreed to do so whether in identication details which may be details previously expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or accordance with the terms of his appointment or allocated by the Company of that member or other on 27 April 2006, whichever is the earlier.
Although the directors is the earlier.
otherwise and, unless the directors have agreed person, in such form as the directors may approve, have no present intention of exercising this authority, except for otherwise, he shall not be eligible for reappointment.
or be accompanied by such other evidence as the the purposes of allotting shares under the Companys employee Prior to 1 December 2003, any shares purchased in this way would have been cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced 86 The Company at the meeting at which a director directors may require to satisfy themselves that the share schemes, it is considered prudent to maintain the exibility retires under any provision of these articles may by document is genuine.
The Company may designate it provides.
However, the Companies Acquisition of Own ordinary resolution ll the ofce being vacated by mechanisms for validating any such document, and Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 have altered the appointing thereto the retiring director if eligible any such document not so validated by use of such Disapplication of pre-emption rights: Resolution 8 position to permit shares purchased by the Company out of distributable profits to be held as Treasury Shares which may for reappointment or some other person eligible for mechanisms shall be deemed not to have been If shares are allotted for cash using the authority given by appointment.
In the absence of such a resolution the received by the Company.
Resolution 7, Section 89 of the Act requires that those shares are be cancelled, sold for cash or transferred for the purposes retiring director shall nevertheless be deemed to have v a new Article 135 be inserted before the existing Article 134, offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to the number of the Companys employee share schemes.
The Company been reappointed except in any of the following cases: as follows: of shares they already hold.
This Resolution would renew for a currently holds no Treasury Shares.
a where at such meeting a resolution for the ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION further year the authority of the directors pursuant to Section 95 3 reappointment of such director is put to the 135 1 Any member may notify the Company of an address for of the Act, to allot equity securities for cash without first offering Off-market purchases of 5 4 per cent cumulative meeting and lost, or it is expressly resolved not the purpose of his receiving electronic communications them to existing shareholders.
The authority other than in preference shares: Resolution 10 to ll the ofce being vacated: or from the Company, and having done so shall be deemed relation to a rights issue would be limited to the issue of equity At the time of the disposal of Hodder Headline Limited by the Company, Cazenove bought almost the entire class of b where such director is ineligible for reappointment to have agreed to receive notices and other documents securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 194,887, which or has given notice in writing to the Company that from the Company by electronic communication of is 5 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as Preference Shares in the market.
The Board believes that it is he is unwilling to be reappointed.
the kind to which the address relates.
In addition, if at 14 October 2004 and will expire at the conclusion of the now appropriate to repurchase these shares from Cazenove The retirement shall not have effect until the a member noties the Company of his email address, next Annual General Meeting or on 27 April 2006, whichever at par, for a price of 1 per share.
conclusion of the meeting except where a resolution the Company may satisfy its obligation to send him any is the earlier.
is passed to appoint some other person in the place notice or other document by a publishing such of the retiring director or a resolution for his notice or document on a web site: and b notifying reappointment is put to the meeting and lost and him by email to that email address that such notice accordingly a retiring director who is reappointed or or document has been so published, specifying the deemed to have been reappointed will continue in address of the web site on which it has been published, ofce without a break.
the place on the web site where it may be accessed, ii the words, and may also determine the rotation in which any how it may be accessed and if it is a notice relating additional directors are to retire be deleted from the end of to a shareholders meeting stating i that the notice existing Article 90. concerns a notice of a company meeting served in accordance with the Act, ii the place, date and time 78 WH Smith PLC 79 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
