com 35 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation of accounts h Depreciation The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost accounting Freehold land and ground rents are not depreciated.
Freehold buildings rules and in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards.
are depreciated at 2% on cost less residual value.
Leasehold land and premises are depreciated over the life of the lease.
In accordance with the provisions of Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts and Abstract 17 Revised Employee Share Plant, vehicles and equipment are depreciated on cost less residual value Schemes, the Group has restated its accounts to recognise the cost of on a straight line basis at rates varying between 10% and 33% determined shares held under the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust as a by the expected life of the assets.
The effect has been to increase shareholders funds by 0.3m, as disclosed in Note 16. i Deferred taxation Except as otherwise required by FRS 19, deferred taxation is provided in Apart from the items noted above, the accounting policies have been full in respect of timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation provisions are not discounted.
in relation to the Group's financial statements.
j Leased assets b Consolidation Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and the outstanding The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Crest Nicholson PLC future lease obligations are shown in creditors.
Operating lease rentals and its subsidiaries made up to 31st October in each year.
The profits and are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the losses of subsidiaries acquired or sold during the year are included as period of the lease.
from or up to their effective date of acquisition or disposal.
The subsidiary undertakings currently trading and which are significant to k Goodwill the Group are set out in Note 9.
Goodwill is capitalised in the year in which it arises and written off over its estimated useful economic life.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as provided by S. 230 of the Companies Act 1985. l Pensions The amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of the c Turnover defined contribution pension scheme represents the contributions payable Turnover represents amounts received and receivable in respect of in respect of the accounting period.
The expected cost to the Group of housing, land and commercial property sold.
Turnover excludes the sale of pensions in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is charged to properties taken in part exchange.
the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the service lives of employees in the scheme.
d Income recognition Income is recognised on house sales at the later of exchange of contract m Financial instruments and completion of build.
Income is recognised on land sales when The Group uses currency swaps to manage financial risk.
These contracts are exchanged and all material conditions are met.
Income is instruments are treated as hedges and the net interest payable or recognised on commercial property sales on exchange of contract: the receivable is reflected in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings are amount recognised depends on progress achieved in build and in stated on the balance sheet after taking account of the effect of these securing occupiers.
e Joint ventures n Employee share schemes A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a participating The cost of awards to employees under the Long Term Share Incentive interest and which is jointly controlled under a contractual arrangement.
Plan of conditional rights to shares are recognised over the period to The appropriate share of results of joint venture undertakings is included which the related performance criteria are applied.
Awards under the in the consolidated profit and loss account.
Investments in joint venture deferred bonus scheme are recognised in the year in respect of which the undertakings are shown in the consolidated balance sheet using the gross award is made.
No cost is recognised in respect of Executive or SAYE equity method.
Further details on the share schemes can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 51 to 56. f Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes, where appropriate, a proportion of overhead expenses.
g Finance costs Interest on the Group's bank and other borrowings is written off as incurred.
Pre-funding costs on commercial property developments are capitalised during the period of build and written off in cost of sales.
