54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Notice of Eighth Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own personal financial advice immediately from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser duly authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have already sold or otherwise transferred all of your Dairy Crest shares, please send this document as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Eighth Annual General authorised, in accordance with Section 166 of the Act to make Meeting of the Company will be held at the Chartered market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ on Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Thursday 15 July 2004 at 11.00am for the following purposes: Company ordinary shares provided that: Ordinary business the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised 1.
To receive and adopt the Companys annual accounts for the to be acquired is 12,413,167 year ended 31 March 2004, together with the directors report and auditors report on those accounts.
the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes 2.
To approve the Report of the Board on Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2004. the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2004 not more than 5% above the average of the middle market of 13.4 pence per share.
values for an ordinary share in the Company as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business 4.
To re-elect Mr S M D Oliver as a director of the Company.
days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and 5.
To re-elect Mr D J Dugdale as a director of the Company.
the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company except in 6.
To elect Mr A S N Murray as a director of the Company.
relation to a purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such time and which will or may be 7.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors, to hold office executed wholly or partly after such time.
from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the members, 10.
That the articles of association of the Company be and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
amended so as to be in the form of the articles of association produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman for the Special business purposes of identification.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed in the case of resolution 8, as an 11.
That the power conferred on the directors by article 4 C of ordinary resolution and, in the case of resolutions 9, 10 and 11, the Companys articles of association as amended by resolution as special resolutions: 10 if such resolution is passed to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash be renewed for Ordinary resolution the period from the date of the passing of this resolution until 8.
That the authority conferred on the directors by article 4 B of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the the Companys articles of association to exercise all powers of Company and for that period the section 89 amount is the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of 1,551,645. section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act be renewed for the period from the date of the passing of this resolution until By order of the Board the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and for that period the section 80 amount is Roger Newton, Secretary 10,344,000.
That, pursuant to article 41 of the Companys articles of Registered Office: association, the Company be generally and unconditionally Claygate House, Littleworth Road, Esher, Surrey KT10 9PN Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 55 Explanatory notes Notes 4.
Individuals will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting only if their 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled own name appears on the share register or, where the shares are held in to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of a different trading or registration name, on production of written evidence him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
of their authority to act as that shareholders representative.
A partnership the name of which is entered in the register of members may, by any two 2.
You may use the form of proxy enclosed with this Notice to appoint a persons purporting to be partners in the partnership, authorise a person proxy to attend the meeting on your behalf.
To be effective, the form of to act as its representative at the meeting.
A company or other institution proxy and any authority under which it is executed or a certified copy of may by prior written authorisation confirm the appointment of a corporate such authority must reach the offices of the Companys registrar, Lloyds representative to attend the meeting on its behalf.
Such a representative TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6LA not shall be entitled to exercise the same rights as an individual member in less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion respect of the shares to which the authorisation relates.
Any company or and return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from partnership appointing a representative to attend the meeting is attending and voting in person at the meeting.
requested to notify the Companys registrar of such appointment in writing not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the meeting 5.
Only individual shareholders whose names appear on the register, and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the their proxies or representatives duly authorised in the above manner will CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored be permitted to attend and vote at the meeting.
members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service Resolution 1 provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
The directors of the Company have a duty to present to shareholders in general meeting the annual accounts, together with the directors report In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST and the report of the auditors.
The auditors report can be found on service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy page 51.
Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for Resolution 2 such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, As required by the Act, the Board has presented its Report of the Board regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an on Directors remuneration to shareholders in the Annual Report, which amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy may be found on pages 22 to 28.
This report gives details of the must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2004 and sets out issuers agent Lloyds TSB Registrars ID 7RA01 by the time stated the Companys overall policy on directors remuneration.
above for the receipt of forms of proxy.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp As also required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have audited the relevant the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST parts of the Report of the Board on Directors remuneration and their report in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of may be found on page 51. instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives.
In CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or compliance with the Act, shareholders are invited to approve the Report voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make of the Board on Directors remuneration.
available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to Resolution 3 the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the The directors recommend that a final dividend of 13.4 pence per share CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a be paid on 9 August 2004 to shareholders on the register on 9 July CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a 2004.
Payment of the final dividend will bring the total dividend for the voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting year ended 31 March 2004 to 18.9 pence per share.
service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any Resolutions 4 and 5 particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where The articles of association specify that up to one third of the directors applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are other than the director covered by Resolution 6 must retire by rotation referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual at the Annual General Meeting.
This year Mr S M D Oliver and concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Mr D J Dugdale retire by rotation.
Mr S M D Oliver and Mr D J Dugdale are eligible for and seek re-election.
Details of their biographies can be The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the found on page 19. circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001.
Resolution 6 The articles of association also require that any director appointed by the 3.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Board since the last Annual General Meeting must offer himself for election.
Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those shareholders Mr A S N Murray has been appointed by the Board during the year and appearing in the register of members as at 6.00pm on Tuesday 13 July being eligible offers himself for election by the shareholders.
Details of his 2004 the specified time shall be entitled to attend and vote at the biography can be found on page 19. meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the register of members after the specified time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Explanatory notes continued Resolution 7 Article number s Reason for the amendment This is a standard resolution proposing the re-appointment of Ernst & 1 The amendments made to the definitions in Young LLP as the Companys auditors.
article 1 are all as a direct consequence of the other amendments outlined below.
Resolution 8 At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 2 June 2000, shareholders 4 C ii, 7 A, 72 iii, These amendments have been made to allow passed a resolution giving the directors authority, in accordance with 73 A ii the Company to take advantage of the article 4 B of the Companys articles of association, to allot relevant Company Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury securities as defined in the Companies Act 1985.
That authority will Shares Regulations 2003 which allow expire on 1 June 2005 and the Company therefore proposes to renew companies to purchase their own shares to the authority now.
The section 80 amount referred to in resolution 8 hold in treasury, rather than for cancellation.
allows the directors to allot relevant securities up to a nominal value of The proposed amendment to article 4 C ii will 10,344,000, representing approximately 33% of the issued ordinary allow the Board to re-issue ordinary shares shares of the Company as at 26 May 2004.
The directors have no from treasury as if the pre-emption provisions of present intention of exercising this authority other than to satisfy the section 89 of the Act did not apply, but subject exercise of options and the Company intends to seek an annual renewal always to the limit set out in Resolution 11 if of this authority from now on.
passed or any other authority granted by shareholders to the Board that waives preResolution 9 emption rights upon the allotment of equity The authority for the Company to make market purchases of its issued securities.
share capital, granted last year, will expire at the close of the Annual General Meeting.
This resolution seeks renewal of that authority, again 10 A, 28 C, 30 C, These amendments have been made because limited to a maximum number of shares which amounts to approximately 32 B, 32 C new, of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 10% of the Companys current issued share capital.
Their primary purpose is to eliminate the not been used to date and would only be exercised if the directors 73 A ii c, 106 time delay between settlement through CREST believed that a repurchase of shares would result in an increase in and title being entered on the Companys share earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders as register.
This means that certain mechanical a whole.
Any shares repurchased under this authority may be held by the provisions of the articles in relation to Company as treasury shares.
Resolution 10 11 A, 11 D, 31 A new, References to the London Stock Exchange Changes in company law and market practice mean that in a number of 34, 41, 65 H, 73 A, have been replaced with the UKLA, now that respects, the Companys articles of association require updating.
The 106 the UK listing authority is the UKLA rather than principal changes proposed will allow the Company to take advantage the London Stock Exchange.
of recent regulations allowing the Company to hold treasury shares and permitting settlement through CREST.
Changes are also being proposed 45 G new, 46 B new, These amendments have been made to allow to the Companys borrowing powers and to afford the Company the 65 B new, 65 G, the Company to take advantage of the ability to communicate with shareholders electronically.
The following 66 A i, 66 A ii new, Electronic Communications Act 2000 and the table sets out the changes which the Company is proposing to make to 66 B new, 89, 111, Companies Act 1985 Electronic its articles and summarises the reasons for such changes.
References in138 B new, Communications Order 2000 which provide for the table to article numbers are save where otherwise indicated to the 138 D new, the use of electronic communication in numbered articles in force as at the date of the Notice convening the 138 E new, company communications with shareholders.
138 F new, 139, It is considered best practice to provide for this 140 A, 140 B new, in the articles.
140 C, 141, 142 B new, 142 C new, 142 F new 11 B, 24 A, 31 A vi, These amendments are being proposed either 57 B, 65 E, 65 F, to clear up minor perceived discrepancies in 65 G, 67, 81, the articles or in other instances, to reflect a 86 A iv, 87 A, 88, more modern approach.
For instance, the 100, 109 A, 109 G, Company is proposing to amend article 115 to 115, 142 A allow meetings of the Board to take place via video conference.
47, 138 A Under the Act, it is now obligatory for the Report of the Board on Directors remuneration to be presented to shareholders.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 57 48, 49, 50 A, These amendments are being proposed to In practice, the Companys external borrowing 51 B new, modernise the practices and procedures is already limited by existing internal controls, 56 deleted, 60 A, which the Company adopts in relation to the the need to maintain a favourable credit rating, 61 D, 65 A, 65 C, conduct of general meetings.
In some the limits contained in the financial covenants in 70 cases, such as the proposed new article 51 B the Groups committed borrowing facilities and which clarifies the power of the chairman to the principles of sound corporate governance.
conduct meetings in an orderly fashion, the The amendment of article 107 will not affect the articles are being updated to reflect the Companys borrowing policy.
procedures which the Company currently operates as a matter of discretion.
134 H new This insertion gives the Board maximum flexibility in the payment of dividends enabling 80 A, 80 B new, The proposed changes are to simplify the the directors to opt to pay dividends in cash in 84 procedures for the retirement of directors by particular cases, even where shareholders have rotation whilst still complying with the provisions made a scrip election.
of the Combined Code which requires that all directors should retire by rotation at least once Copies of the articles amended to reflect all the changes described every three years.
Article 84 has been amended above will be available for inspection during normal business hours on so that persons over the age of 70 will not be weekdays Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the automatically barred from appointment to the offices of Clifford Chance LLP at 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 board.
5JJ from the date of this Notice up to and including the close of the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 15 July 2004 and will also 91 The aggregate annual limit of the amount which be available for inspection at the Chartered Accountants Hall, Moorgate the Company may pay its directors by way of Place, London EC2P 2BJ at least fifteen minutes prior to and during the directors fees not including salary or other Annual General Meeting of the Company.
remuneration is currently fixed at 300,000.
This limit has been in place since 1996 and the Resolution 11 Company believes it is therefore appropriate to Under section 89 1 of the Act, if the directors wish to allot equity increase the figure to 400,000.
The aggregate securities for cash other than in connection with an employee share annual amount of fees, including the fees of the scheme they must in the first instance offer them to existing shareholders non-executive chairman, currently paid is in proportion to their holdings a pre-emption offer.
The process for determining the occasions, however, when the directors will need the flexibility to finance amount of fees paid to directors is set out on business opportunities by the issue of shares without a pre-emptive offer page 23 of the Annual Report.
107 It is proposed that this article be amended by The directors are therefore seeking renewal of the authority from substituting a variable borrowing limit with a shareholders to disapply this pre-emption requirement for allotments of fixed limit on the directors power to incur equity securities for cash up to a specific amount.
Currently the directors are was granted at the Annual General Meeting held on 19 July 2001 but authorised to exercise borrowing powers up to has not been used so far and the Board has no present intention of an amount equal to two and a half times the alloting any shares in these restricted circumstances.
Companys adjusted capital and reserves.
Calculating the adjusted capital and reserves is This resolution proposes renewal up to a nominal value limit of complex and will be affected by the introduction 1,551,645 being approximately five per cent of the current issued of International Financial Reporting Standards share capital of the Company as at 26 May 2004.
The effect of these new intends to seek an annual renewal of this authority from now on.
standards will be to increase the volatility of the adjusted capital and reserves and may cause The directors believe that the resolutions are in the best interests significant increases or reductions in their level of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and as a result of fluctuations in the financial unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour markets not related to the trading operations of of all resolutions.
Such movements could render the current article unworkable.
The amended article would restrict the directors from incurring external borrowings above the level of 700 million, which is just under three times the Companys current level of adjusted capital and reserves.
The directors believe such a limit will create sufficient headroom and flexibility to enable them to respond to the long-term needs of the business.
Designed by Tor Pettersen & Partners 020 7432 6100.
Printed in England by St Ives Westerham Press Dairy Crest Group plc Claygate House Littleworth Road Esher Surrey KT10 9PN Company No: 3162897 Visit our website at www.
