34 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 Accounting policies 1 Basis of preparation 5 Tangible fixed assets The financial statements have been prepared under the Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable depreciation.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are accounting standards.
reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Interest 2 Consolidation is capitalised on major capital projects during the period of The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of construction based on the Groups average cost of borrowings.
Dairy Crest Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 March each year and include the appropriate share of the 6 Depreciation results and net assets of its joint ventures.
Subsidiary Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed undertakings and joint ventures acquired during the year are assets, excluding freehold land, over their estimated useful lives consolidated from the date of acquisition.
in equal annual instalments over the following periods: On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are Freehold buildings 25 years translated into sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results Leasehold land and buildings 25 years or, if shorter, the of foreign subsidiaries are translated into sterling at average period of the lease rates of exchange for the year.
Exchange differences arising Plant and equipment 4 to 20 years from the retranslation of the net investment in foreign Vehicles 4 to 10 years subsidiaries at year end exchange rates, less exchange differences on borrowings which finance or provide a hedge 7 Government and other grants against those undertakings, are taken to reserves and are Regional development and other grants received for the reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
purchase of fixed assets are included in creditors and subsequently released to profit over the useful life of the asset 3 Goodwill by equal instalments.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 April 1998, comprising the difference between the cost of shares or businesses 8 Leased assets acquired and the fair value of the identifiable net assets at the Assets acquired under finance leases are included in the date of acquisition, is capitalised as an intangible fixed asset balance sheet at cost less depreciation.
The net present value and amortised through the profit and loss account over the of future lease rentals is included as a liability on the balance estimated useful life of the asset, not exceeding 20 years.
The interest element of lease rentals is charged to the profit and loss account in the year.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 April 2002 will normally be amortised over 10 years.
The amortisation period for Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit goodwill arising on acquisitions since 1 April 1998 has been and loss account on the straight line basis.
amended from 20 years to 10 years.
9 Investments Goodwill arising on acquisitions before 1 April 1998 has been Joint ventures are those in which the Group holds a long-term charged against the merger reserve and has not been reinstated interest and shares control under a contractual arrangement.
following the implementation of FRS 10.
Goodwill is reviewed for Joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method.
impairment at the end of the first full year following acquisition The Groups share of joint ventures profits is included in the and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances consolidated profit and loss account and its share of their indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If a attributable net assets is included in the Group balance sheet.
subsidiary or business is disposed of, any goodwill arising on acquisition that was written off directly to reserves or that has 10 Stocks not been amortised through the profit and loss account is taken Stocks are stated at the lower of cost including attributable into account in determining the profit or loss on sale.
production overheads and net realisable value.
Consumable stores are valued at cost, net of provisions where appropriate.
4 Turnover Turnover represents the amount invoiced, net of VAT, for goods 11 Deferred taxation and services supplied to customers.
Deferred taxation is recognised using the incremental liability approach in respect of all timing differences that have originated but have not been reversed by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent to which they are recoverable.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2004 35 12 Pensions Interest rate swaps Pension costs are recognised on a systematic basis in order to The Groups criteria for interest rate swaps are that the spread the costs of providing retirement benefits evenly over the instrument must be related to an asset or a liability and it must service lives of the employees concerned.
Any excess or change the character of the interest rate by converting a deficiency of the actuarial value of assets over the actuarial variable rate to a fixed rate or vice versa.
value of liabilities is allocated over the average remaining service lives of current employees on an even percentage of payroll.
Interest differentials are recognised by accruing the net interest payable.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value or 13 Research and development shown in the Groups balance sheet at the year end.
Expenditure on research and development is written off as incurred.
14 Employees Share Ownership Plan ESOP The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust are recorded in the balance sheet and are classified within fixed assets.
The expected net cost of benefits is charged against profits over the performance period during which the benefits are earned by the employees.
15 Foreign currencies Forward foreign exchange contracts are accounted for as hedges when they relate to a foreign currency asset or liability that is probable and which involves the same currency as the hedged item.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date, or the forward rate where hedged.
Exchange rate differences are charged to the profit and loss account.
16 Derivative instruments The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group also uses interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate exposures.
The Group considers that its derivative instruments qualify for hedge accounting when certain criteria are met as set out below: Forward foreign currency contracts The criteria for forward foreign currency contracts are that the instrument must be related to a foreign currency asset or liability that is probable and whose characteristics have been identified, it must involve the same currency as the hedged item and it must reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the Groups operations.
The rates under such contracts are used to record the hedged item.
As a result, gains and losses are offset against the foreign exchange gains and losses on the related financial assets and liabilities, or where the instrument is used to hedge a committed or probable future transaction, are deferred until the transaction occurs.
