ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of Accounting On disposal or closure of businesses, goodwill previously written The accounts have been prepared: off against reserves is taken through the profit and loss account in arriving at the gain or loss on disposal.
a under the historical cost convention modified to include the revaluation of certain assets: b Goodwill arising on consolidation, in respect of acquisitions made since 28th September, 1998, is capitalised and amortised b in accordance with Section 227 of, and Schedule 4 to, the through the profit and loss account over the lower of their useful Companies Act 1985: and economic lives and a period of 20 years.
c in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the c In calculating the goodwill, the total consideration, both United Kingdom.
actual and deferred, is taken into account.
Where the deferred consideration is payable in cash, the liability is discounted to its Basis of Consolidation present value.
Where the deferred consideration is contingent a The Group accounts comprise a consolidation of the accounts and dependant upon future trading performance, an estimate of the Company and of all its subsidiaries, together with the of the present value of the likely consideration payable is made.
Groups share of its interest in its joint ventures and associates.
This contingent deferred consideration is re-assessed annually and corresponding adjustment is made to the goodwill arising All major Group undertakings present accounts up to a date on acquisition.
The difference between the present value and within seven days of 30th.
Results of subsidiaries acquired or the total amount payable at a future date gives rise to a finance disposed of during the year are incorporated from the effective charge which is charged to the profit and loss account and date of acquisition or up to the date of their disposal.
credited to the liability over the period in which the consideration is deferred.
The discount used approximates to market rates.
The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values, reflecting their condition at that date, which gives rise to d Impairment reviews of goodwill and other intangible assets purchased goodwill.
are carried out at the end of the first financial year after acquisition and where there is any indication of impairment.
Changes in Presentation of Financial Information The Group has changed its accounting policy to reclassify the Purchased intangible assets relating to newspaper publishing rights, Groups investment in its own shares within shareholders funds titles, radio licences and certain other intangible assets are capitalised in accordance with UITF Abstract 38.
As a consequence, provision and amortised through the profit and loss account over the lower of is no longer made for the cost of shares formerly purchased to their useful economic lives, if any, and a period of 20 years.
match options, granted under the Companys 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme, in excess of the option exercise price.
Foreign Exchange a Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into As a result of these changes, the prior year primary statements sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Revenue and shareholders funds have been restated to show the items are translated at average rates for the year, except Companys own shares of 27.5 million as a negative reserve, where they are covered by forward contracts in which case the offset by a prior year adjustment to release the provision held forward rate is used.
Differences on exchange, arising from and hence to increase revenue reserves by 2.5 million at 28th the re-translation of the opening net investment in subsidiaries September, 2003.
Group operating profit for the prior year has and associates and from the translation of the results of those also been restated, being increased by 0.4 million.
The sale of undertakings at average or forward rates, are dealt with as these shares in August resulted in a loss of 3.8 million being movements on reserves.
taken through shareholders funds, of which 2.5 million had been charged against operating profits under the previous policy.
b Foreign currency borrowings are matched against net assets adjusted to include goodwill arising on acquisitions and the Furthermore, the Groups policy in respect of revenue recognition resulting translation differences are dealt with as movements has been amended to reflect the publication in November 2003 of on reserves.
Application Note G to FRS 5 so that the earnings of exhibitions straddling the year end are recognised over the life of the event, c Translation differences on the excess of foreign currency where appropriate, and advertising revenues from the business borrowings over matching net assets adjusted to include goodwill to business careers divisions web sites are spread over the term arising on acquisitions are taken to the profit and loss account.
The effect of this change is that the prior year Group balance sheet has been restated so as to increase net assets by d All other exchange differences are taken to the profit and 0.2 million.
This change is one of timing only and has no impact loss account.
on the results of the prior year.
Tangible Fixed Assets Other than these changes of policy, the accounts have been Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accumulated prepared in accordance with the accounting policies adopted depreciation, adjusted for revaluations of certain properties at last year.
The Group continues to comply with the transitional 30th September, 1994. arrangements for the implementation of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits and, as permitted, to prepare its accounts under SSAP Specialised buildings, being those constructed specifically 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
for use in the business, are carried at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets a Goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions, Non-specialised buildings are carried at their frozen 1994 prior to the adoption of FRS 10 on 28th September, 1998, valuations, as permitted by FRS 15, Tangible Fixed Assets, as was written off against reserves in the year of acquisition.
adjusted for subsequent additions, disposals, depreciation and impairment, if any.
51 Daily Mail and General Trust plc ACCOUNTING POLICIES Continued Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from assets by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment lives as follows: to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Freehold buildings and long leasehold properties 10 to 50 years Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Short leasehold properties Period of lease regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Plant and equipment 3 to 25 years Timing differences arising on tax deductible goodwill written off to reserves are recognised.
Due to the indefinite nature of these Depreciation on freehold buildings and leasehold properties is timing differences the Group believes it appropriate to discount based on cost, or valuation where properties have been re-valued.
the resultant deferred tax assets and liabilities as they arise on Freehold land and assets in the course of construction are businesses expected to be held for the long term.
all other deferred tax assets and liabilities are also discounted.
Leased Assets Pension Costs Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights The Group has taken advantage of the transitional arrangements approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had of FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, which permit the costs, accruals been purchased.
The present value of minimum lease payments and prepayments recorded in the accounts to be reported under payable during the lease term is capitalised as a tangible asset and the requirements of SSAP 24, Accounting for Pension Costs.
the corresponding leasing commitment is included in obligations This is consistent with the basis adopted last year.
The cost under finance leases.
Rentals payable are apportioned between of providing pensions is calculated using actuarial valuation interest, which is charged to the profit and loss account, and methods, which reflect the long term costs of providing pensions.
capital, which reduces the outstanding commitment.
Thus, the amount charged to the profit and loss account is Rentals payable relating to all other leases are charged to the profit calculated so as to produce a substantially level percentage of and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
the current and future pensionable payroll.
Variations from the regular cost so calculated are allocated to the profit and loss Joint Ventures and Associates account over the average remaining service lives of employees.
Joint ventures are those entities in which the Group holds a long term interest and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or The additional disclosures required by FRS 17 are explained in more venturers under a contractual arrangement.
Joint ventures Note 39. are accounted for using the gross equity method of accounting.
Financial Instruments Associates are those undertakings, other than subsidiaries and The Group uses various derivative financial instruments to joint ventures in which the Group holds a long term participating manage its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
interest and exerts a significant influence.
The Groups share of These have included currency swaps, forward foreign currency profits less losses of associates is included in the Groups profit contracts, interest rate swaps, interest rate caps and interest and loss account and the Groups share of their net assets, rate floors.
The Group considers its derivative financial together with goodwill arising on acquisition, is included in the instruments to be hedges and matches them with the relevant Group balance sheet.
Cash flows relating to these derivative financial transactions are netted against hedged transactions in the Cash The basis in which these joint ventures and associates are equity flow statement within net cash inflow from operating activities, accounted is set out in Note 23. or returns on investment and servicing of finance, or disclosed within financing, as appropriate.
Investments Listed and unlisted investments are held at cost, less any Where forward foreign exchange contracts or cross currency provision for impairment.
swaps are used to hedge borrowings, the borrowings hedged are translated at the year end at the exchange rate implicit within Investments in Group undertakings are held by the Company at the respective derivative.
Any exchange differences arising are cost, less any provision for impairment.
taken to the profit and loss account to match the accounting treatment of exchange gains or losses on the borrowings.
Stocks and Work in Progress Where forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and future revenues or costs, the gain or loss is not recognised until net realisable value.
Cost of work in progress includes overheads the revenues arise or the costs are incurred.
attributable to the cost of production.
Payments or receipts on interest rate swaps, caps or floors are Deferred Taxation accrued with interest payable.
The derivatives are not revalued.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result Arrangement fees on Eurobonds are amortised over the in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a estimated life of the Bonds.
right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise, based on current tax rates and on law.
Own Shares Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income The Companys own shares, held as treasury shares and at the and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different prior year end within the DMGT Share Trust, are shown as a from those in which they are included in financial statements.
52 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
