CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued high level due to the extent of corporate tax advice given and Guidance, building on the Companys existing control and risk Deloittes involvement in the examination of the potential management process.
In May, an internal audit charter and an acquisition of certain assets of Hollinger International.
Since internal audit plan were approved by the Committee.
The charter Deloittes appointment in 2001, non-audit fees have been on covers the purposes and objectives of the Groups internal audit average lower than audit fees.
Excluding the 2004 audit and nonfunction, its authority and scope: independence issues: standards audit fees, the average as a percentage of audit fees is 58%.
of professional practice and performance monitoring: planning and reporting: and the expectations of divisional management.
In September, the Audit Committee carried out an annual review Following each review, a formal report will be issued to divisional of its terms of reference and of its effectiveness and concluded management with the audit findings and, where appropriate, that it did not need to recommend to the Board any changes to managements response.
At each Audit Committee meeting, its remit or operations.
In October, 2004, the Board conducted the Internal Audit Manager reports on the internal audit activity its own review of the Committees performance and agreed that completed, including an overview of the work done, a summary the Committee had been effective in the year under review.
of the control assessments and any major issues or findings.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has responsibility The Group does not maintain common detailed accounting or for the review of financial risk management and of internal operations manuals because of the diverse operations carried financial controls during the year, as these directly relate to the out by its divisions.
Where applicable, divisions maintain their quality of financial reporting.
In addition, the Committee reviews own manuals.
A number of the divisions also undertake regular a summary of letters to management prepared by the Groups control review work as part of their control process.
external auditors following their audit procedures, considers significant financial reporting issues and approves any changes As a consequence of the Groups risk management process, to Group accounting policies, which are set centrally.
During the the Board has taken the view that control processes in place year, the Committee received reports from the Group Accountant remain adequate.
on the progress being made to enable the Group to implement international accounting standards in the year beginning 3rd One of the Groups subsidiaries, Euromoney Institutional Investor October, 2005.
Apart from these specific responsibilities, the plc, is subject to the requirements of the Code in its own right.
Committee is mandated to review all announcements of results As disclosed in its latest annual report, it has in place its own issued by the Group and to consider the appointment of external system of internal control and risk management processes.
auditors and to review their remuneration.
The joint ventures and associates of the Group are also not Last year the Committee reported that a central internal audit included in the Groups system of internal control described function was being established to co-ordinate the internal audit above.
The most significant associate, GWR Group plc, is also activities carried out across the Group.
In November 2003 a Group a listed company and its own processes for the identification, Internal Audit Manager was appointed, who joined the Company evaluation and management of significant risks are disclosed in January, to perform the functions set out in the Smith in its own annual report.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE PREPARATION OF ACCOUNTS The Directors are required by UK company law to prepare The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of records, for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the assets of the Company and of the Group and for taking reasonable end of the financial year and of the profit or loss, total recognised steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
gains and losses and cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have On behalf of the Board been used and applied consistently, and that reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made in the N D Jennings, FCA preparation of the Accounts for the year ended 3rd October, Secretary 2004.
The Directors also confirm that applicable accounting 1st December, 2004 standards have been followed and that it is appropriate that the Accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis.
32 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
