Payment of dividends to mandated accounts Shareholders who do not currently have their dividends paid directly to a bank or building society account and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form obtainable from the Companys registrars, as above.
Tax vouchers are sent to the shareholders registered address under this arrangement unless requested otherwise.
Low cost stock and share dealing service Cazenove & Co. Ltd, the Companys stockbrokers, operate a low cost stock and share dealing service for Ordinary shares in fide Vere Group Plc.
This provides not only for the sale of stocks and shares at a basic commission of 1% with a 10 minimum charge, but also for purchases of Ordinary shares.
Further information is available from Cazenove & Co. Ltd, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
CREST: stock market settlement system The computerised system for settling sales and purchases of shares, CREST, became operational for the Companys Ordinary shares in October 1996.
It is a voluntary system that enables shareholders, if they wish, to hold and transfer their shareholdings electronically rather than by paper.
Shareholders who wish to retain their certificates are also able to do so.
Electronic communications with shareholders Following recent Government legislation, we now offer our shareholders the option to receive electronic versions of shareholder communications including the annual and interim reports.
Information regarding this service can be downloaded directly from the corporate website, www.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2004 I 61 ADVISERS TO fide VERE GROUP PLC Company Secretary and Advisers to fide Vere Group Plc Registered Office Stockbrokers Company Secretary Cazenove & Co. Ltd Mr David Charles Edwards LL.
B 20 Moorgate London, EC2R 6DA Registered Office Tel: 020 7588 2828 2100 Daresbury Park Daresbury Credit Suisse First Boston fide Zoete & Bevan Warrington, WA4 4BP Limited Registered in England No.
co. uk Financial Advisers Registrars and Transfers Office Close Brothers Corporate Finance for Shareholders and loan stockholders 10 Crowne Place Capita Registrars Clifton Street Northern House, Woodsome Park London, EC2A 4FT Fenay Bridge Huddersfield, HD8 0LA Principal Bankers Tel: 0870 162 3131 National Westminster Bank plc www.
co. uk 23 Sankey Street Warrington, WA1 1XH Agents for the 6.4% $100 million Guaranteed Senior Loan Notes Auditors December 2012 Ernst & Young LLP Prudential Insurance Company of America 100 Barbirolli Square 141 Wardour Street Manchester, M2 3EY London, W1F 0UT Solicitors Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer 65 Fleet Street London, EC4Y 1HS Designed & Produced by: www.
co. uk Printed by: Jigsaw Print Limited 62 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I ADVISERS TO fide VERE GROUP PLC
