155 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Additional information for shareholders Legal proceedings i Colombian excise duties In August 2000, Diageo learned that the Governors of the Departments of the Republic of Colombia and the City of Bogot the Departments were considering initiating legal proceedings against major spirits companies in relation to unpaid excise duties and taxes on products that are smuggled into Colombia by third parties.
Such proceedings are expected to be similar to actions that have been brought in recent years by foreign governments, including the Departments, against a number of consumer product companies.
Of these four actions, three have been dismissed.
The fourth has yet to proceed to the stage where motions to dismiss are filed.
It remains the directorsintent that any proceedings of this kind that might be brought against Diageo will be strenuously defended.
ii Alcohol advertising litigation Five putative class actions have been filed against Diageo, Diageo North America, Inc. Paddington, Ltd and a large group of other beverage alcohol manufacturers and importers.
Four of the actions are now pending in federal district courts two in Ohio, one in North Carolina and one in the District of Columbia.
The fifth action is pending in Colorado state court.
In each action, plaintiffs allege that defendants have intentionally targeted the marketing of certain beverage alcohol brands to minors.
The named plaintiffs seek to pursue their claims on behalf of two classes of plaintiffs i parents or guardians of underage drinkers who bought alcohol beverages during the period from 1982 to the present and ii all parents and guardians of children currently under age 21.
Plaintiffs allege several causes of action, including violations of state consumer protection laws, unjust enrichment, negligence and civil conspiracy.
The complaints seek money damages including fines, punitive damages and disgorgement of profits and injunctions against the alleged targeting of minors in advertising.
Diageo North America and the other domestic defendants have moved to dismiss the complaints in Ohio, North Carolina and Colorado.
Plaintiffs have not yet responded to these motions.
Diageo and other foreign defendants did not join in these motions because of outstanding objections to personal jurisdiction.
In the District of Columbia case, the Beer Institute, Inc. moved to dismiss the complaint on 23 December 2003.
Briefing has been completed, but the court has not yet ruled.
Diageo, Diageo North America and the other defendants must respond to the complaint within 30 days of the issuance of a decision on the Beer Institutes motion to dismiss.
iii Other The group has extensive international operations and is a defendant in a number of legal proceedings incidental to these operations.
There are a number of legal claims or potential claims against the group, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo nor any member of the Diageo group is or has been engaged in, nor so far as Diageo is aware is there pending or threatened by or against it, any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position of the Diageo group.
Provision is made in the consolidated financial statements for all liabilities that are probable and reliably measurable.
Material contracts Agreement for the sale of Burger King Corporation On 13 December 2002, Gramet Holdings Corp.
Seller, Diageo and Delaware Champion Acquisition Corporation Buyer entered into an Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement the Agreement.
Pursuant to the Agreement all of the capital stock of Burger King Corporation was sold to Buyer on 13 December 2002 the Closing.
The purchase price pursuant to the Agreement was $1.51 billion.
As a result of closing adjustments specified in the Agreement which were based on estimates as of the date of the sale, Diageo received approximately $1.2 billion in cash and a subordinated debt instrument issued by the holding company owning all of the capital stock of Burger King in an original principal amount of $212.5 million the Debt Instrument.
The Debt Instrument contains a 9% per annum payment in kind interest rate and matures on 13 June 2013.
In connection with the transactions contemplated by the Agreement, Diageo and certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries agreed to guarantee the Guarantee a $750 million term loan and a $100 million revolving line of credit on behalf of Burger King and its subsidiaries the Senior Loans.
The Senior Loans have a term of five years from December 2002 although Diageo and Burger King agreed to structure their arrangements to encourage a refinancing by Burger King on a non-guaranteed basis prior to the end of five years providing the terms of any such refinancing are acceptable to Diageo.
If a refinancing does not occur prior to 13 December 2005, Diageo will receive thereafter an annual guarantee fee of 5% of the outstanding principal amounts of the Senior Loans.
Diageo will make an incentive payment of $10 million if the loans are refinanced during the first eighteen months following the Closing or a payment of $5 million if they are refinanced during the next eighteen months.
In the event of such a refinancing, Diageo has agreed to compensate Burger King for any fees and additional interest incurred during the outstanding term of the Senior Loans.
There can be no assurance that a non-guaranteed refinancing will occur prior to the end of the fifth year or prior to a payment being made by Diageo or a wholly owned subsidiary of Diageo under the Guarantee.
Supplemental marketing agreement and waiver On 23 June 2004, Diageo and General Mills, Inc. entered into a Supplemental Marketing Agreement and Waiver SMA.
Under the terms of the SMA, Diageo and General Mills have agreed, until the first anniversary of the effectiveness of the Registration Statement filed by General Mills on 23 June 2004 registering 49,907,680 of Diageos shares of General Mills stock the Registration Statement, to work in good faith toward the implementation of a transaction to sell 49,907,680 shares of General Mills common stock, or any smaller number agreed to by General Mills and Diageo, currently owned by Diageo.
The agreement further contemplates that: i a portion of the shares, which portion will be 49,907,680 less the number of shares sold to General Mills as described in ii below will be sold directly by Diageo: and ii at the same time, General Mills will repurchase from Diageo a number of shares determined by Diageo having an aggregate value of between $500 million and $750 million, and General Mills or a third party will sell equity-linked securities related to those shares.
However, Diageo has the right to sell all 49,907,680 shares, or any smaller number agreed to by Diageo and General Mills, directly through a block trade to an underwriter or syndicate of underwriters for resale to the public, subject to the right of General Mills to match the price offered by that underwriter and purchase those shares itself.
The SMA provides that Diageo will not sell shares under the Registration Statement except in the transactions outlined above.
Any other transaction under the Registration Statement would require the consent of General Mills.
156 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Additional information for shareholders Under the SMA, General Mills agreed to file the Registration Statement, and to include in the Registration Statement 49,907,680 General Mills common shares held by Diageo.
The inclusion of these shares was in lieu of any  rights that Diageo might otherwise have had with respect to the Registration Statement.
The SMA does not affect any of Diageos other registration rights under the Stockholders Agreement or otherwise affect its ability to sell the shares in accordance with that agreement.
Until the transaction described above is completed, or until Diageo otherwise sells the identified 49,907,680 shares, General Mills has agreed not to sell any equity securities under the Registration Statement without Diageos consent.
Following the first anniversary of the effective date of the Registration Statement, General Mills has the right to deregister the offering of shares by Diageo.
This right is subject to the agreement of General Mills not to offer or sell any shares of common stock under the Registration Statement until Diageo has otherwise disposed of at least 49,907,680 General Mills common shares.
General Mills will also deregister the shares at Diageos request.
Agreement for the acquisition of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses On 19 December 2000, Diageo and Pernod Ricard entered into a stock and asset purchase agreement with Vivendi Universal S. A. whereby Pernod Ricard and Diageo agreed to acquire stock and assets of the worldwide spirits, wines, wine and malt coolers, other malt beverages, fortified wines, non-alcoholic mixers and other alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages business of The Seagram Company Ltd the stock and asset purchase agreement.
The acquisition was completed on 21 December 2001.
The acquisition consideration, under the stock and asset purchase agreement, was $8.15 billion 5.62 billion in cash, subject to a number of adjustments.
Diageos share of the purchase price, after adjustment, was 3.7 billion.
The terms of the bidding and acquisition arrangements between Pernod Ricard and Diageo for the Seagram acquisition were governed by the Framework Implementation Agreement, a formal agreement entered into on 4 December 2000 which was subsequently amended and restated the FIA.
The FIA set out amongst other things principles governing the split of the Seagram spirits and wine businesses, the integration process for the business and the interim management of the non-core businesses.
The FIA was terminated by the execution of a further agreement on 21 December 2002 which was subsequently amended and supplemented the SOFIA although this termination is without prejudice to any prior breaches of the FIA.
Under the SOFIA, all material assets that were jointly acquired by Pernod Ricard and Diageo from Vivendi Universal S. A. are allocated between Diageo and Pernod Ricard.
A number of the provisions of the FIA have been carried forward into the SOFIA in modified form.
These include provisions relating to the  for liabilities incurred by or in connection with the various businesses acquired under the stock and asset purchase agreement including for the sharing of certain liabilities between the parties.
Where liability is to be shared between Diageo and Pernod Ricard, this is generally on the basis of the same 60.9 39.1 ratio adopted for the FIA subject to, amongst other things, fide minimis limitations that limit the ability of one party to recover from the other in certain cases and to detailed conduct of claim provisions.
The SOFIA also provides for the settlement of various historic and ongoing claims between the parties under the FIA and for the settlement of various costs and expenses including future costs and expenses.
In addition, the SOFIA provides the basis for the management of the remaining jointly-owned businesses including for their future restructuring and or liquidation.
Related party transactions Agreements with General Mills On 31 October 2001 Completion, Diageo completed the disposal to General Mills, Inc. of The Pillsbury Company and the capital stock or other equity interests of entities that comprised Diageos worldwide packaged food business.
Under the terms of the transaction, Diageo received 134 million newly issued General Mills shares, constituting approximately 32% of General Millsshare capital, and $3,830 million 2,716 million of cash and assumed debt.
Diageo also had a contingent value right to receive up to $670 million 475 million on 30 April 2003 depending on the average General Mills share price over the 20 trading day period prior to such date and the number of shares of General Mills common stock that Diageo continued to hold on such date.
Following Completion, Diageo exercised an option it had to sell 55 million of its General Mills shares back to General Mills at a price of $42.14 per share.
As a result of such exercise, the maximum amount Diageo would have a right to receive pursuant to the contingent value right would have been $395 million 280 million.
On 1 May 2003, Diageo received $273 million 173 million from General Mills pursuant to the contingent value right.
This amount reflects a payment of the difference between the average General Mills stock price over the 20 trading day period prior to 30 April 2003 of $45.55 per share and $49.00, multiplied by Diageos then holding of 79 million General Mills shares.
At completion of the disposal, Diageo, General Mills and the Gramet Holdings Corporation, the sole stockholder of Pillsbury and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Diageo, entered into the Stockholders Agreement.
The Stockholders Agreement provides, amongst other things, for: a standstill provision, pursuant to which Diageo will be precluded from seeking to gain control of, or buying additional shares in, General Mills until the earlier of 20 years following Completion, or three years following the date on which Diageo owns less than 5% of General Mills outstanding shares: a requirement that Diageo dispose of at least 75% of the General Mills shares acquired at completion within 10 years: voting restrictions for the General Mills shares acquired by Diageo.
Diageo is required to vote all of its General Mills shares in favour of the director nominees recommended by the General Mills board of directors.
On all other matters, the agreement generally requires pass-through voting by Diageo, so its shares will be voted in the same proportion as the other General Mills shares are voted for a period of 10 years or until Diageo owns less than 5% of General Millsoutstanding shares, whichever is earlier: representation on the General Mills board for Diageo.
On 23 June 2004, Diageo and General Mills amended the Stockholders Agreement to permanently eliminate Diageos right to board representation: participation by Diageo in General Millsshare repurchase programmes unless the repurchases are made by a tender offer or made in connection with the General Mills employee benefit plans: and 157 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Additional information for shareholders registration rights for Diageo for its General Mills shares.
At any time within one year of completion or at any date over 20 months after completion, Diageo may require General Mills to file a Registration Statement under the United States Securities Act of 1933 in respect of all or a portion of the General Mills shares received at completion.
Diageo may make up to 12 demands, but each registration must cover shares valued in excess of $300 million and only one demand may be made during any nine-month period.
On 23 October 2002 and 28 October 2002, Diageo and General Mills entered into two call option agreements in which Diageo granted to General Mills call options over 29,092,320 of General Mills ordinary shares held by Diageo.
Under the call option agreements, from a date no earlier than 1 May 2003 through 28 September 2005, General Mills may exercise the call options subject to certain limitations.
If General Mills exercises any call options during the period from 29 September 2005 to 28 October 2005, General Mills will be obligated to exercise the call options in respect of all covered ordinary shares not previously purchased.
The premium for the call options was an aggregate of $89,313,422.
General Mills has agreed to pay $51.56 per share upon exercise of the call options.
The call options expire on 28 October 2005.
On 23 June 2004, Diageo and General Mills entered into a Supplemental Marketing Agreement and Waiver with respect to a Registration Statement filed by General Mills on 23 June 2004 registering 49,907,680 of Diageos shares in General Mills see Additional information for shareholders Material contracts.
On 23 June 2004, General Mills filed a Registration Statement with the US Securities and Exchange Commission that included 49,907,680 shares of General Mills owned by Diageo.
Diageo currently cannot sell its shares in a publicly marketed offering until the SEC declares the Registration Statement effective, which it has not yet done.
General Mills has informed Diageo that, at this time, the Registration Statement remains under review as a result of the SECs investigation of General Mills.
Diageo remains committed to selling its stake in General Mills subject to the receipt of any required regulatory approval and market conditions.
Other Transactions with directors are disclosed in the  report see  report Additional information.
Share capital 101 As at 16 August 2004, Diageo had an authorised share capital of 5,329 million ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each with an aggregate 101 nominal value of 1,542 million and an allotted and fully paid share capital of 3,057.5 million ordinary shares of 28 108 pence each with an aggregate nominal value of 885 million.
Major shareholders At 16 August 2004, the following substantial interest 3% or more in the companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified to the company:The Capital Group Companies, Inc 122,634,410 ordinary shares 4.01% of the issued ordinary share capital of Diageo plc.
The companys substantial shareholder does not have different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the company.
As of the close of business at 16 August 2004, 277,249,095 ordinary shares, including those held through ADSs, were held by approximately 2,349 holders including American Depositary Receipt ADR holders with registered addresses in the United States, representing approximately 9% of the outstanding ordinary shares.
At such date, 69,038,551 ADSs were held by 1,553 registered ADR holders.
Since certain of such ordinary shares and ADSs are held by nominees or former GrandMet PLC or Guinness PLC ADR holders who have not re-registered their ADSs, the number of holders may not be representative of the number of beneficial owners in the United States or the ordinary shares held by them.
Trading market for shares The Diageo plc ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange the Exchange and on the Dublin and Paris Stock Exchanges.
Diageo plc American Depositary Shares ADSs, representing four Diageo plc ordinary shares each, are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The principal trading market for the ordinary shares is the Exchange.
Shares are traded on the Exchanges electronic order book.
Orders placed on the order book are displayed on-screen through a central electronic system and trades are automatically executed, in price and then time priority, when orders match with corresponding buy or sell orders.
Only member firms of the Exchange can enter or delete orders on behalf of clients or on their own account.
Although use of the order book is not mandatory, all trades, whether or not executed through the order book and regardless of size, are published immediately after execution.
Trades greater than eight times normal market size, may be conducted under a worked principal regime, in which a member firm acting as principal commits to carry out, at some point in the future, a transaction in a size exceeding eight times normal market size.
Member firms must agree a basis price with their client and must offer the potential for improvement in price and or size.
Worked principal agreements must be notified to the Exchange when entered into, although notifications are not published until the end of the business day or until 80% of the trade has been unwound.
Diageo ordinary shares have a normal market size of 200,000.
The normal market size classification for each equity security is subject to quarterly review in the light of trading volume in the previous quarter and to adjustment, as appropriate.
The ordinary shares are a constituent element of the FTSE 100.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the pound sterling and the US dollar will affect the US dollar equivalent of the pound sterling price of the ordinary shares on the Exchange and, as a result, will affect the market price of the ADSs on the NYSE.
In addition, such fluctuations will affect the US dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion of cash dividends paid in pounds sterling on the underlying ordinary shares.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations which represent an average of bid and asked prices for the ordinary shares on the Exchange, taken from its Daily Official List, and the highest and lowest sales prices for ADSs as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
The 9.42% cumulative guaranteed preferred securities, series A the preferred securities liquidation preference $25 per security issued by Grand Metropolitan Delaware, LP are traded on the NYSE.
The following table shows, for the periods indicated, the highest and lowest sales prices of the preferred securities as reported on the NYSE composite tape.
As of 16 August 2004, 100% of the 22.4 million preferred securities were outstanding and were held by approximately 36,000 holders.
159 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Additional information for shareholders Memorandum and articles of association The following description summarises certain provisions of Diageos Memorandum and articles of association and applicable English law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 1985 of Great Britain the Companies Act, as amended, and Diageos Memorandum and articles of association.
Information on where investors can obtain copies of the Memorandum and articles of association is provided under Documents on displaybelow.
All of Diageos ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be required by Diageo from the holders of such shares.
Objects and purposes Diageo is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307.
Diageos objects and purposes are set forth in the fourth clause of its Memorandum of Association and cover a wide range of activities, including to carry on the business of a holding company, to carry on the business of producing, distributing and marketing branded drinks and branded food products, operating fast food restaurant chains and brewing, distilling and manufacturing wines, spirits and mineral or other types of water as well as to carry on all other businesses necessary to attain Diageos objectives.
The Memorandum of Association grants Diageo a broad range of powers to effect these objectives.
Directors Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than 25 directors, who shall manage the business and affairs of Diageo.
Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or appointed by the board of directors.
In addition, at each annual general meeting one-third of the directors, representing those directors who have been in office the longest since their last election, as well as any directors appointed by the board of directors since the last annual general meeting are required to resign and are then reconsidered for election, assuming they wish to stand for re-election.
Under Diageos articles of association, a director cannot vote in respect of any proposal in which the director, or any person connected with the director, has a material interest.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply to resolutions a giving the director any guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of obligations or liabilities incurred for the benefit of Diageo, b giving any guarantee, security or indemnity to a third party in respect of obligations of Diageo for which the director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities of Diageo in which the director participates or may participate as a holder of shares or other securities or in the underwriting, d relating to any contract in which the director is interested by virtue of the directors interest in securities of Diageo or by reason of any other interest in or through Diageo, e concerning any other company in which the director together with any connected person is a shareholder or an officer or is otherwise interested, provided that the director together with any connected person is not interested in more than 1% of any class of the companys equity share capital or the voting rights available to its shareholders, f relating to the arrangement of any employee benefit including any retirement benefit plan in which the director will share equally with other employees, and g relating to any insurance that Diageo purchases or maintains for its directors or any group of people, including directors.
Under the articles of association, compensation awarded to executive directors may be decided by the board or any authorised committee of the board.
The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board concerning matters relating to remuneration policy.
It is comprised of all the non-executive directors except for Lord Blyth.
The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of Diageo to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all liabilities and obligations of the group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to twice the aggregate of the groups paid up share capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the articles of association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of Diageos shareholders.
No person may be appointed a director of Diageo if, at the time of their appointment, they have reached the age of 70.
A director must retire at the first annual general meeting after their seventieth birthday.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of Diageo as a qualification to act as a director.
Dividend rights Holders of Diageos ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution.
Dividends may be paid to an approved depositary in currencies other than pounds sterling and such dividends will be calculated using an appropriate market exchange rate in London as determined by the directors in accordance with Diageos articles of association.
If a dividend has not been claimed, the directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of Diageo until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend remains unclaimed for 12 years after the date such dividend became due for payment, it will be forfeited and will revert to Diageo.
Diageos articles of association permit payment or satisfaction of a dividend wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets, including fully paid shares or debentures of any other company.
Such action must be directed by the general meeting which declared the dividend and upon the recommendation of the directors.
160 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Additional information for shareholders Voting rights Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting, including the duly authorised representative of a corporate holder of Diageos shares which is not itself a shareholder entitled to vote, has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every share held by that shareholder.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: the chairman of the meeting: at least three shareholders entitled to vote and present in person, by proxy or by duly authorised representative at the meeting: any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote at the meeting and present in person, by proxy or by duly authorised representative: or any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in the aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that right and present in person, by proxy or by duly authorised representative.
Matters are transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the proposing and passing of three kinds of resolutions: an ordinary resolution, which includes resolutions for the election, re-election and removal of directors, the approval of financial statements, the declaration of final dividends, the appointment or re-appointment of auditors, the increase of authorised share capital or the grant of authority to allot shares: a special resolution, which includes resolutions amending Diageos Memorandum and articles of association or relating to certain matters concerning Diageos winding up: and an extraordinary resolution, which includes resolutions modifying the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the holders of such class.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
Special and extraordinary resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
The necessary quorum for a meeting of Diageo is a minimum of 10 persons entitled to attend and vote on the business to be transacted, each being a shareholder or a proxy for a shareholder or a duly authorised representative of a corporation which is a shareholder.
In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled to cast the deciding vote in addition to any other vote he may have.
Liquidation rights In the event of the liquidation of Diageo, after payment of all liabilities and deductions in accordance with English law, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
A liquidator may, with the sanction of a special resolution of the shareholders and any other sanction required by the Insolvency Act 1986, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of Diageos assets.
Alternatively, a liquidator may, upon the adoption of a special resolution of the shareholders, place the assets in whole or in part in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled to accept any assets upon which there is a liability.
Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies Act, the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies Act, Diageo may also not allot shares for cash without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot shares on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Disclosure of interests in Diageos shares There are no provisions in the articles of association whereby persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of Diageos shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there are such requirements under the Companies Act.
The basic disclosure requirement under sections 198 to 211 of the Companies Act imposes upon a person interested in the shares of Diageo a statutory obligation to notify Diageo in writing of details set out in the Companies Act where: a he acquires or ceases to have an interest in shares comprising any class of Diageos issued and voting share capital: and b as a result, either he obtains, or ceases to have: i a material interestin 3% or more of the nominal value of any class of Diageos issued voting share capital: or ii an aggregate interest whether material or not in 10%, or more of the nominal value of any class of Diageos issued voting share capital or the percentage of his interest in Diageos issued voting share capital remains above the relevant level and changes by a whole percentage point or more.
161 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Additional information for shareholders A materialinterest means, broadly, any beneficial interest, including those of a spouse or a child or a step-child, those of a company which is accustomed to act in accordance with the relevant persons instructions or in which one third or more of the votes are controlled by such person and certain other interests set out in the Companies Act, other than those of an investment manager or an operator of a unit trust recognised scheme collective investment scheme open-ended investment company.
The Companies Act sets out particular rules of disclosure where two or more parties have entered into an agreement to acquire interests in shares of a public company, and the agreement imposes obligations restrictions on any such party with respect to the use, retention or disposal of their interests in the shares and an acquisition of shares by a party pursuant to the agreement has taken place.
Under the Companies Act, Diageo may, by notice in writing, require a person that Diageo knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding the date of notice interested in Diageos shares to indicate whether or not that is correct and, if that person does or did hold an interest in Diageos shares, to provide certain information as set out in the Companies Act.
The Companies Act further deals with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or debentures of the companies of which they are directors and certain associated companies.
There are additional disclosure obligations under the Rules Governing Substantial Acquisitions of Shares where a person acquires 15% or more of the voting rights of a listed company or when an acquisition increases his holding of shares or rights over shares so as to increase his voting rights beyond that level by a whole percentage point.
Notification in this case should be to the London Stock Exchange and to Diageo no later than noon on the business day following the date of the acquisition.
The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also contains strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also to their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
General meetings and notices At least 21 days written notice of an Annual General Meeting is required.
An Annual General Meeting may be held on short notice provided that all the shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting agree.
Any general meeting which is not an Annual General Meeting is called an Extraordinary General Meeting.
At least 14 days written notice of any Extraordinary General Meeting is required, unless a special resolution or a resolution on which special notice has been given to Diageo is proposed, in which case 21 days written notice is required.
Any Extraordinary General Meeting may be held on short notice if a majority in number of shareholders, who together hold at least 95% in nominal value of Diageos shares giving a right to attend and vote at such meeting, agree.
Under Diageos articles of association, the Annual General Meeting of shareholders must be held within 15 months of the preceding Annual General Meeting and at a time and place determined by the directors.
Variation of rights If, at any time, Diageos share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that a the quorum is to be the number of persons which must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than onethird in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds, b any person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll, and c each shareholder will have one vote per share held in that particular class in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to that class of shares in all respects or by the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase or redemption by Diageo of its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act and the articles of association.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought back must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued share capital.
Diageo currently has shareholder authority to buy back up to 309,885,718 ordinary 101 shares during the period up to the Annual General Meeting.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 28 108 pence and the maximum price is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share for the five preceding business days.
At the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 20 October, 2004, the board of directors will request the approval of the shareholders for an amendment to the provisions of the articles of association which govern the repurchase of shares.
This amendment would remove Diageos obligation to cancel shares immediately upon completion of purchase and would allow Diageo to hold the purchased shares as treasury shares.
Exchange controls There are currently no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the payment of dividends to US persons on Diageos ordinary shares or preferred securities or on the conduct of Diageos operations.
There are no restrictions under the companys Memorandum and articles of association or under English law that limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares or preferred securities.
Please refer to the Taxationsection below for details relating to the taxation of dividend payments.
Documents on display The latest annual report, the annual review and any related documents of the company may be inspected at the Securities and Exchange Commissions public reference rooms located at 450 Fifth Street, NW Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the operation of the public reference room can be obtained by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1 800 SEC 0330.
162 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Additional information for shareholders Taxation This section provides a descriptive summary of United States federal income tax and United Kingdom tax consequences that are likely to be material to the holders of the ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities, who hold their ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities as capital assets for tax purposes.
It does not purport to be a complete technical analysis or a listing of all potential tax effects relevant to the ownership of the ordinary shares, ADSs and preferred securities.
This section does not apply to any holder who is subject to special rules, including: a dealer in securities or foreign currency: a trader in securities that elects to use a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities holdings: a tax-exempt organisation: a life insurance company: a person liable for alternative minimum tax: a person that actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the voting stock of Diageo: a person that holds ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities as part of a straddle or a hedging or conversion transaction:or a US holder as defined below whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
For United Kingdom tax purposes, special rules may apply, in addition to those set out above, to holders that are banks, regulated investment companies or other financial institutions.
This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published rulings and court decisions, and the laws of the United Kingdom all as currently in effect, as well as on the Conventions Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Tax on Income and Capital Gains entered into force 25 April 1980 the Old Treaty and entered into force on 31 March 2003 the New Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
The New Treaty is effective in respect of taxes withheld at source for amounts paid or credited on or after 1 May 2003.
Other provisions of the New Treaty took effect on 1 January 2004.
The rules of the Old Treaty remained applicable until these effective dates.
A US holder who would be eligible for the benefits of the Old Treaty and is eligible for the benefits of the New Treaty, however, may, in certain circumstances, elect to have the Old Treaty apply in its entirety for a period of 12 months after the applicable effective dates of the New Treaty.
Holders of ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities are advised to consult their own tax advisers with respect to the overall tax implications of the New Treaty, including specifically the implications of making the above mentioned election.
In addition, this section is based in part upon the representations of the Depositary and the assumption that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
In general, and taking into account this assumption, for United States federal income tax purposes and for purposes of the Old Treaty and New Treaty, holders of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the owner of the shares represented by those ADSs.
Exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, generally will not be subject to United States federal income tax or to United Kingdom tax.
A US holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities that is for United States federal income tax purposes: a citizen or resident of the United States: a United States domestic corporation: an estate whose income is subject to United States federal income tax regardless of its source: or a trust if a United States court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and one or more United States persons are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
This section is not intended to provide specific advice and no action should be taken or omitted to be taken in reliance upon it.
This discussion addresses only United States federal income tax and United Kingdom income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, inheritance tax and stamp taxes.
Ordinary shares or ADSs, United Kingdom taxation There is no United Kingdom withholding tax on dividends.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for United Kingdom tax purposes in the United Kingdom that receives a dividend from the company will generally be entitled to a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend.
The individual will be taxable on the total of the dividend and the related credit, known as the gross dividend, which will be regarded as the top slice of the individuals income.
The tax credit will, however be treated as discharging the individuals liability to income tax in respect of the gross dividend, unless and except to the extent that the gross dividend falls above the threshold for the higher rate of income tax, in which case the individual will, to that extent, pay tax on the gross dividend calculated as 32.5% of the gross dividend less the related tax credit.
A shareholder that is a company resident for tax purpose in the United Kingdom will not generally be taxable on any dividend it receives in respect of the shares.
A shareholder who is not liable for tax on dividends received on the shares will not be entitled to claim payment of the tax credit in respect of those dividends.
163 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Additional information for shareholders The Old Treaty, if applicable by virtue of an election under the New Treaty, allows an eligible US holder to claim a similar tax credit from the United Kingdom Inland Revenue.
However, it also provides for a notional United Kingdom withholding tax which, in the case of an eligible US holder that owned, directly or indirectly, less than 10% of the voting stock of the company, is set at 15% of the aggregate of the dividend and the credit.
At current rates, the notional withholding tax would eliminate the tax credit payment but no withholding in excess of the tax credit payment would be imposed upon the US holder.
Thus, for example, an eligible US holder that received a dividend of 9 would also be entitled to receive from the United Kingdom Inland Revenue a tax credit of 1 one-ninth of the dividend received, but the entire payment of 1 would be eliminated by the notional United Kingdom withholding tax, which would result in a net distribution, before United States tax, of 9 to the US holder.
Under the New Treaty, an eligible US holder will not be entitled to a tax credit nor be subject to a withholding tax by the United Kingdom.
United States taxation Under the United States federal income tax laws, and subject to the passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, rules discussed below, the gross amount of any dividend paid to a US holder by Diageo in respect of its ordinary shares or ADSs out of its current or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for United States federal income tax purposes is subject to United States federal income taxation.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder after 31 December 2002 and before 1 January 2009 that constitute qualified dividend income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15% provided that the ordinary shares or ADSs are held for more than 60 days during the 120 day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date and the holder meets other holding period requirements.
The Internal Revenue Service recently announced that it will permit taxpayers to apply a proposed legislative change to this holding period requirement as if such change were already effective.
This legislativetechnical correctionwould change the minimum required holding period, retroactive to 1 January 2003, to more than 60 days during the 121 day period beginning 60 days before the ex-dividend date.
Dividends paid by Diageo with respect to its ordinary shares or ADSs will be qualified dividend income to US holders that meet the holding period requirement.
US holders that are eligible for the benefits of the Old Treaty and have properly filed Internal Revenue Form 8833 may include any United Kingdom tax deemed withheld from the dividend payment in this gross amount even though they do not in fact receive it.
Subject to certain limitations, the United Kingdom tax deemed withheld in accordance with the Old Treaty and paid over to the United Kingdom will be creditable against the US holders United States federal income tax liability.
In addition, special rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to dividends that are subject to the maximum 15% tax rate.
Under the New Treaty, a US holder will not be entitled to a United Kingdom tax refund, but also will not be subject to United Kingdom withholding tax.
In that case, the US holder therefore will include in income for United States federal income tax purposes only the amount of the dividend actually received, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder to a foreign tax credit.
The dividend must be included in income when the US holder, in the case of shares, or the Depositary, in the case of ADSs, receives the dividend, actually or constructively.
The dividend will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to United States corporations in respect of dividends received from other United States corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources outside the United States, but generally will be passive incomeor financial services incomewhich is treated separately from other types of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit allowable.
The amount of the dividend distribution that must be included in income of a US holder will be the US dollar value of the pence payments made, determined at the spot United Kingdom sterling US dollar foreign exchange rate on the date the dividend distribution is included in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the date the dividend payment is included in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Distributions in excess of current and accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for United States federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
Preferred securities United Kingdom taxation Payments to a US holder of preferred securities whose holding is not effectively connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base in the United Kingdom made i by Grand Metropolitan Delaware, LP pursuant to the preferred securities or ii by the company pursuant to its guarantee thereof will not be subject to United Kingdom withholding tax provided that, as regards the portion of any payment by the company which represents income in respect of the preferred securities: a that portion is exempt from taxation in the United Kingdom under Article 22 other income of the Old Treaty or New Treaty, as applicable: b the US holder is entitled to and has claimed the benefit of the Old Treaty or New Treaty, as applicable, in respect of such payment: and c the company has received from the Inland Revenue, prior to the payment being made, a direction pursuant to the Old Treaty or New Treaty, as applicable, allowing payment to be made without deduction of United Kingdom tax.
If b or c above is not satisfied so that tax is withheld by the company, a person entitled to exemption under the Old Treaty or New Treaty, as applicable, may claim repayment of such tax from the Inland Revenue.
United States taxation A US holder of preferred securities will be required to include in gross income its distributive share of the net income of Grand Metropolitan Delaware, LP, which generally will not exceed the distributions received on the preferred securities.
This income will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction, and will be foreign source passiveor, in the case of certain holders, financial services income for foreign tax credit purposes.
164 Diageo Annual Report 2004 Additional information for shareholders Taxation of capital gains.
United Kingdom taxation A citizen or resident of the United States who is neither resident nor ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom will not be liable for United Kingdom tax on gains realised or accrued on the sale or other disposal of ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities unless the ordinary shares or ADSs or preferred securities are held in connection with a trade or business carried on by the holder in the United Kingdom through a United Kingdom branch, agency or, a permanent establishment.
A US holder will be liable for United States federal income tax on such gains to the same extent as on any other gains from sale or dispositions of shares or stock.
A US holder who is liable for both United Kingdom and United States tax on a gain on the disposal of ADSs, or ordinary shares or preferred securities will generally be entitled, subject to certain limitations, to a credit against the holders United States federal income tax liability for the amount of any United Kingdom tax paid in respect of such gain.
US taxation Subject to the PFIC rules discussed below, a US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares, ADSs, or preferred securities, will recognise capital gain or loss for United States federal income tax purposes equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount that is realised and the tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is recognised on or after 6 May 2003 and before 1 January 2009 is taxed at a maximum rate of 15% where the property is held more than one year.
The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the United States for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
PFIC rules Diageo believes that ordinary shares, ADSs and preferred securities should not be treated as stock of a PFIC for United States federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus may be subject to change.
If treated as a PFIC, unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities, gain realised on the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, US holders would be treated as if the holder had realised such gain and certain excess  over the holders holding period for the ordinary shares, ADSs or preferred securities and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year.
In addition, dividends received from Diageo will not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to qualified dividend income if Diageo is a PFIC either in the taxable year of the distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates applicable to ordinary income.
United Kingdom inheritance tax An ordinary share, ADS or preferred security held by an individual shareholder who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of the Convention Between the United States and the United Kingdom relating to estate and gift taxes the Convention will not be subject to United Kingdom inheritance tax on the individuals death whether held on the date of death or gifted during the individuals lifetime except in the exceptional case where the ADS or ordinary share is part of the business property of a United Kingdom permanent establishment of the individual or pertains to a United Kingdom fixed base of an individual who performs independent personal services.
The Convention generally provides for tax paid in the United Kingdom to be credited against tax payable in the United States and for tax paid in the United States to be credited against any tax payable in the United Kingdom, based on priority rules set forth in the Convention, in a case where an ordinary share, ADS or preferred security is subject both to United Kingdom inheritance tax and to United States federal gift or estate tax.
United Kingdom stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises upon the deposit of an underlying ordinary share with the Depositary, generally at the higher rate of 15% of its issue price or, as the case may be, of the consideration for transfer.
The Depositary will pay the SDRT but will recover an amount in respect of such tax from the initial holders of ADSs.
No United Kingdom stamp duty will be payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs or preferred securities in practice, provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom and remains at all times outside the United Kingdom.
Furthermore, an agreement to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs or preferred securities will not give rise to a liability to SDRT.
Purchases of ordinary shares will be subject to United Kingdom stamp duty, or SDRT as the case may be, at the rate of 0.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
However, where ordinary shares being acquired are transferred direct to the Depositarys nominee, the only charge will generally be the higher SDRT charge of 1.5% of the price payable for the ordinary shares so acquired.
