91 glossary of technical terms Convergence Solutions Convergence Solutions improve productivity, support mobility and realise infrastructure efficiencies.
Customised business applications integrate into and take advantage of consolidated voice, video and data IP networks.
Customer Interactive Solutions CIS Customer Interactive Solutions deliver managed, integrated customer interaction across communications channels to retain and grow the value of our clients customer bases.
Data Centre and Storage Solutions Data Centre Solutions lower the risk to IT disruption, improve operational efficiency and reduce cost and complexity through storage consolidation and convergence.
GSOA Dimension Data Global Services Operating Architecture GSOA, is a framework that governs how we design, deliver and support customers.
Its features and processes determine how we assess, implement, optimise, monitor and maintain the various layers of the IT environment - from the network to the applications.
Insite Insite is Dimension Datas on-line, real-time IT monitoring and management service.
With three levels of service to choose from, this service can range from basic fault monitoring to extensive predictive analysis and reporting and can span multiple technology and business areas.
Network Integration Network Integration solutions distribute intelligence across complex technologies and diverse environments, helping businesses to connect employees, suppliers, partners, clients and systems.
Operating Environment and Messaging Solutions Operating Environment and Messaging Solutions maximise the return on Microsoft technology investments by managing infrastructure in a secure, cost-effective and systematic way, whilst encouraging collaboration.
Professional Services Professional services bring consultative value to IT-dependent business processes and organisational structure.
Dimension Data partners with clients on an ongoing basis to provide operational services that enhance the reliability of IT environments underpinning business processes.
Professional services include all assessment, consultancy, design and implementation services.
Security Solutions Security solutions and services maximise the value of business information by ensuring it flows in a secure, controlled and compliant environment without contamination.
Uptime Uptime is Dimension Datas IT maintenance service.
It includes total support, troubleshooting and resolutions service for mission-critical IT systems.
From traditional break fix maintenance to proactive on-line monitoring and support, Uptime can help manage the entire IT systems environment 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
