UK RETAIL OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE UK RETAIL DIVISION MADE AN OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS OF 254.2 MILLION 2002 03 53 WEEKS RESTATED 238.0 MILLION, AN INCREASE OF 7 PER CENT.
Turnover increased by 4 per cent to 4,698 million The division continued to make market share gains 2002 03 53 weeks restated 4,525 million.
The effect in its core categories such as personal computers, of the 53rd week in the prior year was to reduce flat screen TVs and large white goods.
However, year on year total sales growth by 1 percentage there were share losses in hi-fi systems, games point.
Like for like sales grew by 2 per cent.
Gross margins increased by 0.1 percentage points Extended warranties compared with the prior year.
Better supplier In December 2003, the Government announced that terms and improved accessory attachment rates it had accepted the recommendations contained in contributed to margin improvement, although the Competition Commissions Report on extended benefits were partially offset by a lower mix of warranties following its 15-month investigation.
service contract sales during the year.
The divisions These reflect many of the Groups policies and overall cost to sales ratio was flat year on year.
practices governing the sale of extended warranties.
Improvements in payroll and central department The Group hopes to see these features reflected in cost ratios were more than offset by rental inflation the implementing regulations when they are issued.
and increased investment in television advertising.
The Group intends to relaunch its service offering The Group also began the roll out of new branch during 2004. systems and has developed new supply chain management processes.
These are expected to deliver significant future productivity improvements.
Product markets and market share The UK Retail divisions product markets grew in value terms by 2 per cent overall.
The brown More effective advertising, supported by higher goods market grew by 3 per cent with strong levels of product availability drove footfall, growth in new technology products including conversion and sales growth.
A restructure of store management completed over the summer plasma and LCD TVs, DVD players and digital photography.
Growth in these categories was increased staff availability in store and led to partially offset by lower sales of games consoles, measurable improvements in customer service.
The white goods The Currys proposition was strengthened through market grew by 2 per cent with strong growth in a combination of successful product promotions, large white appliances, particularly refrigeration.
continued focus on range development and an The overall computing market grew by 2 per cent.
The PC hardware market fell by 2 per cent, where Performance improved steadily throughout the strong unit volume growth was more than offset by price deflation, although there was continued year and Currys achieved good sales growth in strong growth in both the PC peripheral and PC core destination categories such as plasma and accessory markets.
LCD TVs, personal computers and large white goods.
VCRs, games consoles and mobile phones The mobile phone market grew strongly during performed less strongly.
the year, particularly in the second half, with total connections in the full year growing by an Currys continued its relocation programme to larger estimated 19 per cent.
Growth was driven by out of town sites, opening or resiting 14 new stores prepay connections, although contract connections during the period.
Thirteen further new and resited grew strongly in the second half.
stores are expected to open over the next 12 months.
16 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04
