INTERNATIONAL RETAIL OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW THE GROUPS INTERNATIONAL BUSINESSES NOW ACCOUNT FOR 27 PER CENT OF GROUP SALES.
3 2 4 1 Sales in the International Retail division were ESTABLISHED BUSINESSES 1,760 million 2002 03 restated 1,195 million, Sales in the established international businesses an increase of 47 per cent in total and 4 per cent increased by 42 per cent to 1,524 million 2002 03 on a like for like basis.
The divisions performance restated 1,073 million, with operating profits reflects strong profit growth in the Groups growing by 39 per cent to 100.0 million 2002 03 established operations and a full year contribution restated 72.2 million.
from UniEuro, offsetting planned start-up losses in developing markets.
Operating profit before goodwill amortisation increased by 59 per cent to 63.6 million 2002 03 restated 40.1 million.
The combined effect of a strengthening of both the Swedish Krone and Euro, offset by a weaker Norwegian Krone, increased reported sales growth.
At constant exchange rates, sales would have been 47 million lower.
Profit Elkjp recorded a strong performance, particularly growth, however, would have been 1.7 million in Norway and Finland.
In aggregate, the Group higher with positive translation effects in Italy estimates that the product markets in the Nordic and Ireland due to the stronger Euro more region grew by 2 per cent during the year with than offset by higher losses in Euro-denominated growth in the computing, communications and large investment businesses and adverse translation white goods markets and small declines in the effects arising from the weaker Norwegian Krone.
brown goods and small appliances markets.
Elkjp grew share in all four markets as it continues to develop its businesses.
20 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 1.
The Group now the audio range at operates 14 Gigantti Elkjp, Sandvika.
Espen Dalberg, sales adviser, Lefdal Elkjp, Lrenskog, Lavpris, Alnabru, advises a customer demonstrates the on small kitchen range of cameras.
Gigantti stores stock a wide range of domestic appliances.
Elkjp m Operating Sales profit 03 04 880.2 58.1 02 03 749.0 49.0 Total sales change 18% 5 Like for like sales change 4% Elkjps performance in Norway was strong with Elkjps operations in Finland, under the Gigantti local currency sales up 17 per cent in total and brand, performed well, with local currency sales 7 per cent on a like for like basis.
A further five up 28 per cent in total and 6 per cent on a like for stores were refitted, continuing the refurbishment like basis.
Three large out of town superstores were programme started last year.
Elkjp focused on acquired from Mega Pitknen in August, which were developing its second Norwegian brand Lefdal rebranded under Elkjps Gigantti fascia.
A further during the year, with a new store opening in new store was opened in Helsinki in January, taking Stavanger in September.
Both the Elkjp and the number of Gigantti superstores in Finland to 14.
Lefdal chains performed ahead of expectations The Group expects further consolidation of the with strong sales growth.
Finnish market over the next few years and Elkjp is well placed to benefit from this.
A new call centre In Sweden, two new El Giganten stores were was opened in Jyvskyl during the first half year.
opened, in Stockholm and Gothenburg.
Local currency sales were up 10 per cent in total and Elkjp opened a second franchise store in Iceland, flat on a like for like basis.
Three franchise store trading under the Elko brand.
Further expansion agreements have been signed which will provide opportunities are being explored.
further opportunities for growth in smaller towns.
In total, 11 Nordic stores were opened or resited Despite a challenging competitive environment in during the period.
The total number of stores Denmark, there was a solid sales performance, trading in the region at the year end was 168. with total local currency sales increasing by 10 per cent and like for like sales up 3 per cent.
Two stores were opened during the year, taking the chain to 19 El Giganten stores.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 21
