INTERNATIONAL RETAIL OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS Electro World performed ahead of expectations in the second half despite continued competitive EUROPEAN PROPERTY market conditions.
Good market share gains were Operating profit in the discontinued European Property achieved in both Hungary and the Czech Republic.
division was 2.2 million 2002 03 15.0 million on sales of 34 million 2002 03 39 million.
On In the fourth quarter, the business implemented new sourcing arrangements whereby common 8 December 2003, the Group disposed of its 90 per supplier terms were agreed for Electro World and cent holding in Codic International S. A. for 133.3 Elkjp to support margin improvement plans.
The consideration was equal to the Groups share of the net asset value of Codic of 137.0 million During the year, three Electro World stores were at 31 October 2003.
As part of the transaction, the opened one in Hungary and two in the Czech purchasers also assumed 141.8 million of net debt.
At the year end, Electro World traded from nine stores, four in Hungary and five in the Electro World m Czech Republic.
Since the year end, the Group Operating Sales loss has opened another store in Hungary and a further 03 04 86.0 11.6 store also in Hungary is expected to open during the next 12 months.
An Electro World 2 3 customer takes advantage of spectacular opening offers.
Electro Worlds Cerny Most store in Prague trades from 44,000 sq ft. 3.
Young customers at Electro World sample the wide range of games in store.
The impressive TV display at Electro World, Cerny Most, Prague.
Electro World stores offer more than 9,000 product lines.
45 24 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 FULLY INTEGRATED EUROPEAN SERVICE MODEL STRAX Nordic Repair Service The Group is developing a panEuropean service infrastructure.
International call centres in Lincoln pan-European spares supply Nottingham and Madrid provide native language support to Nottingham customers in the UK, France, Product Evaluation Internet Support Spain, Italy and the Nordic IT Systems and development countries.
Shared services UK and Nordics Call Centre ensure the delivery of a consistent standard of support to customers Paris Dedicated engineers in core Group markets.
SOS Italian Repair Service Madrid Southern European Call Centre and Workshop OTHER FINANCIAL MATTERS Pensions Share buyback The Group continues to account for pension costs Following the disposal of Wanadoo shares and under SSAP24.
The defined benefit pension charge the sale of Codic International, the Group has for the period was 18.0 million 2002 03 18.1 reviewed its capacity to return surplus cash to million.
The Group is also required to state, by way shareholders, whilst maintaining a robust balance of note to the financial statements, the profit and sheet and protecting the Groups lenders and loss account and balance sheet figures calculated bondholders.
The Board has concluded that this under FRS 17.
The Groups pension deficit under can be most effectively achieved by the repurchase FRS 17, net of deferred tax, was 88.0 million, a of 200 million of shares.
This decision has been reduction of 70.6 million compared with the taken after considering the Groups annual lease corresponding deficit last year.
This reduction payment commitments, its credit rating and future reflects a year in which most pension schemes have opportunities available to the Group which require benefited from improved asset performance.
The it to retain financial flexibility.
Group has initiated a programme of changes to the pension arrangements to address the shortfall over Acquisitions the longer term including phased increases between On 3 June 2003, the option to acquire the August 2004 and August 2006 in both member and outstanding shares 4.3 per cent in UniEuro S. p. A. company contributions.
The final salary section of at a consideration of 129.8 million was exercised the UK pension scheme has been closed to new with payment deferred until July 2004. members since 1 September 2002.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 25 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued TREASURY POLICY Treasury policy to ensure that a prudent level of Management Treasury operations are managed committed facilities is available at peak trading within policies and procedures approved by the periods, based on a percentage of headroom in Board.
Group Treasury reports regularly to the excess of forecast working capital requirements.
Group Executive Committee and is subject to Peak borrowings for the Group in 2003 04 were periodic independent internal and external reviews.
693.4 million, compared with committed facilities The major financial risks to which the Group is and funding of 1,011.7 million.
The Group remains exposed relate to movements in exchange and comfortably within all financial covenants, which interest rates.
Where appropriate, cost effective mainly relate to interest cover, fixed charge cover and practicable the Group uses financial and net gearing.
The Company has a credit rating instruments and derivatives to manage these of Baa1, comparable with its peer group.
No speculative use of derivatives, currency Group Treasury policy on investment restricts or other instruments is permitted.
counterparties to those with a minimum Moodys long-term credit rating of A3 and short-term Exchange rate risk The Group is exposed to credit rating of P1.
Investments mainly comprise exchange risk on overseas earnings and fluctuations bank deposits and floating rate notes.
The in translated values of foreign currency assets and Group continuously reviews the credit quality liabilities.
The Groups policy is to match, in whole of counterparties, the limits placed on individual or in part, where cost effective, currency earnings credit exposures and categories of investments.
with related currency costs and currency assets with currency liabilities through the use of appropriate International Financial Reporting Standards hedging instruments.
The Group, along with all listed companies in the European Union, will be required to prepare its Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risks financial statements under International Financial of the Group arise in respect of sterling cash Reporting Standards IFRS and International and investments and Euro borrowings.
Potential Accounting Standards IAS for accounting periods exposure to interest rate movements is mitigated commencing in 2005.
Accordingly, the Annual by the Groups policy to match the profile of interest Report and Accounts for the 52 week period ending receipts with that of its interest payments and 30 April 2005 will be the last to contain financial interest based credit commissions and through statements prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
the use of interest based hedging instruments.
The Group has been following a transition plan Bank facilities and cash management It is Group to migrate its financial reporting from UK GAAP policy to maintain committed bank and other to international accounting in three phases: facilities sufficient to meet anticipated financial preliminary assessment, detailed impact study requirements.
Uncommitted facilities are also and implementation.
The preliminary assessment maintained and used if available on advantageous phase began in 2002 and was completed in 2003. terms.
At 1 May 2004, borrowings mainly comprised This identified the differences between UK GAAP the Groups bonds and amounted to 359.6 million.
and international accounting that will have the most Committed bank facilities at 1 May 2004 amounted significant impact on how the Group accounts for to 440.8 million comprising mainly a 400 million its activities.
The detailed impact study began in syndicated bank facility maturing in September 2008 January 2004 and is currently in progress.
This that was negotiated during the year.
At 1 May 2004, comprises aligning the Groups accounting policies total undrawn committed borrowing facilities available to IFRS and IAS and identifying detailed accounting amounted to 429.6 million 339.0 million.
It is and disclosure requirements that will necessitate 26 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 changes to the Groups financial information whether the current operating lease treatment systems.
The implementation process will follow remains appropriate under IAS 17. later this year and will include preparation for Goodwill IFRS 3 Business combinations requires parallel financial statements for 2004 05 under that on acquisition of new businesses after both UK GAAP and international standards.
March 2004, a value is attributed specifically to The International Accounting Standards Board all separately identifiable intangible assets.
Such IASB, has undertaken an extensive exercise amounts are then to be amortised over periods to develop new standards and improve existing not exceeding 20 years.
Since December 2003, the IASB between consideration paid and the fair value of has issued improvements to 15 international net assets acquired is attributed to goodwill.
accounting standards and has issued four new Goodwill is required to be held at cost and is not IFRSs.
Based on the to be amortised.
Instead, it is to be subjected to work performed to date and current international annual impairment tests.
Any existing goodwill standards, the significant differences that will arise will be carried at the amortised amount and will from the adoption of international accounting are no longer be amortised.
as follows: Retirement benefits Under IAS 19 Employment Derivatives and hedge accounting IAS 39 Financial benefits, the net financial position of the Groups instruments requires all derivatives to be revalued defined benefit pension scheme, based on the to fair market values at each balance sheet date.
market values for the schemes assets and scheme The standard is more restrictive on when derivatives liabilities, will be included on the balance sheet.
This are treated as hedging a balance or transaction.
treatment and the related disclosures have many If hedging criteria are not satisfied, the change in similarities with the requirements of FRS 17, which value of the derivative over the period must be taken are reflected in note 27 to the financial statements.
to the profit and loss account, resulting in potential Going concern volatility in the Groups profit and loss account and After making due enquiry, on the basis of current balance sheet.
In assessing the adoption of IAS 39, financial projections and borrowing facilities the Group has no current plans to amend its available, the directors are satisfied that the Group underlying treasury policies described above for has adequate resources to continue in operational the economic hedging of its exposures.
existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Share based payments IFRS 2 requires all share directors continue to adopt the going concern basis based payments, including share options and in preparing the financial statements.
employee share schemes, arising since November 2002, to be shown as an expense in the profit and loss account.
This expense is measured at the fair value of the award and is charged over the vesting period.
Leases IAS 17 establishes a new methodology to JEREMY DARROCH determine whether leases are to be treated as Group Finance Director operating leases or finance leases.
This particularly affects leases over land and buildings which must be split into their constituent parts and assessed separately.
A review of the Groups portfolio of operating leases is being undertaken to determine DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 27 THINK RESPONSIBLY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP THE BOARD VIEWS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AS A SET OF VALUES TO BE EMBEDDED IN THE GROUPS DAY-TO-DAY OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES.
The Group Board has considered the results of this systematic assessment of risks, opportunities and proposals for development.
Reporting The Group does not publish a separate CSR statement or report.
Such documents can only provide a snapshot of activity in a field that is continually changing.
Instead, the matters described below provide a summary of the breadth of Group CSR activity and the issues which the Board considers to be most DAVID LONGBOTTOM Group Human Resources Director relevant to the Groups operations.
Further information is available on the corporate website, www.
co. uk where The Group has made good progress on a wide range it is updated to reflect the Groups most recent of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR matters.
Our Being the Best principles require all employees to operate with integrity: give outstanding service UNDERSTANDING STAKEHOLDERS to customers: respect colleagues: and continually The Group has identified the main stakeholders in seek ways to improve performance.
its business as investors, customers, employees In its approach to Corporate Social Responsibility, and their families, business partners and suppliers, the Group seeks to implement these principles local communities, the environment, legislators in an operationally and administratively efficient and enforcement authorities.
The CSR Committee manner, maximising shareholder value whilst assesses the Groups policy in relation to these offering benefits to other stakeholders.
stakeholders by examining the following information: Structures standards, codes and other indicators, including The Group operates a CSR Committee, chaired voluntary and statutory reporting: by the Company Secretary.
Social, environmental, measurement, audit or validation of CSR ethical and reputational issues are reviewed performance by external sources: and and where appropriate mitigating or corrective arrangements are implemented.
The Committee legislative, regulatory and best practice monitors compliance with legislation, regulations developments.
and best practice, including environmental matters, During the year the Group commissioned health and safety, trading standards, employment, MBA students at the London Business School disability and community relations.
to examine the work of the Committee, assess Accountability the Groups corporate responsibility position The CSR Committee reports to the Group Board.
The in relation to a range of indicators and develop Group Human Resources Director is the Executive proposals for improvement.
The Group has already Director with Board responsibility for CSR matters, begun to address the matters raised in this study, including specific responsibility for environment and further details of which may be found on the health and safety.
During the period, the Committee corporate website.
completed its initial review of the Groups CSR 28 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 REPORTING PERFORMANCE COMMUNITY The Group participates in a limited number of surveys Charitable donations and questionnaires to benchmark performance and During the period the Group donated 875,000 assess progress.
These are chosen for their authority, to The Dixons Foundation, a registered charitable comprehensiveness and reach among stakeholder trust.
The Group encourages applications for groups.
The Group publishes a summary of answers support from community groups and small to frequently asked CSR questions on its website.
charities, particularly in areas where it has high concentrations of employees.
More than 350 local In the last Business in the Environment Index of organisations benefited from support during the Corporate Environmental Engagement, the Groups period.
The Foundation also supports larger scale score was 73 per cent 2002 03 74 per cent, having initiatives, particularly in education, for example increased by eight percentage points in the previous sponsoring the Chair in Entrepreneurship and year.
The Group was a constituent member of the Innovation at Edinburgh University and the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and FTSE4Good Dixons City Technology College in Bradford.
It achieved ninth position the highest score among non-food retailers in Employees in the UK choose charities to support The Times Corporate Profile series, a two-year in an organised campaign under the banner assessment of FTSE 100 companies.
The Groups current campaign is called Action4Disability, a consortium of four The Group has not previously used special charities: the Parkinsons Disease Society, Headway indicators to assess CSR performance, preferring the Brain Injury Association, the Downs Syndrome to concentrate on interpreting existing performance Association and Action For Blind People.
The Group measures in CSR terms.
However, during the is on target to raise 450,000 from the campaign period, the CSR Committee developed proposals during the European Year of Disabled People.
to gather and publish data in the year ahead, and establish reportable performance indicators.
This Supporting local communities reporting will be included in next years Annual To improve local links and promote good community Report and Accounts, with interim information relationships, the Group has developed a new available where possible on the corporate website.
resource for local managers at stores and other The indicators are: Group sites.
The Community Kit is an innovation unique to the Group, providing ideas for local action Community Value of donations to good and support for community initiatives.
Employees causes are encouraged to get involved in local projects and Environment Waste produced and recycled the Group has established an informal network of employee community champions in the UK to Employment Employee profile by age, support activities and share information.
gender, ethnicity The Group has introduced community-related Health and Safety Accidents and injuries at Group training options for personal and management sites development including volunteering, mentoring and Ethical standards Enforcement of the Groups skills-transfer opportunities ranging from working supply chain standards code with young offenders to offering management advice to schools and other local organisations.
The Board will review a performance assessment During the period more than 100 employees against these indicators annually.
The CSR volunteered to answer phones and accept donations Committee will review their relevance periodically.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 29 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP continued at the Groups call centres in Nottingham and ENVIRONMENT Sheffield for the Red Nose Day appeal.
Integrating environmental concern The Group is committed to achieving high standards Partnership working of environmental management by integrating In the UK the Group has been instrumental in two environmental policies into core business processes new crime reduction programmes.
Working with the wherever possible.
The Group does this by: Mobile Crime Action Forum MICAF and the Home Office, the Immobilise campaign has seen mobile increasing the understanding of environmental phone-related crime particularly street thefts impact by measurement, analysis and comparison: decline significantly, protecting customers and raising awareness by pursuing dialogue with staff, reducing costs and tackling disorder.
During interested stakeholders: and the period, the Group worked with the Home Office, reducing impacts through a proactive programme Metropolitan Police and other retailers to pilot of environmental management.
ShopWatch, a project to increase local police presence in shopping areas by supporting the During the period, the Group published formal training and deployment of Special Constables.
The policy statements on energy and waste majority of the new recruits are Group employees.
These are available on the website, together with examples of programmes aimed The Group supports the work of CREATE, which at reinforcing them.
As part of the Groups move trains disadvantaged people in domestic appliance towards formal CSR indicators, environmental repair and provides low-cost refurbished appliances data will also be published on the website.
The Group donates end-of-life appliances for recycling and refurbishment.
The The Group continues to monitor developments in Dixons Foundation this year contributed to a bursary advance of the implementation, next year, of the fund to enable some of CREATEs customers to Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment Directive.
The Group has The Groups existing recycling arrangements are established a working partnership with REMPLOY, supported by customers and already deliver a leading provider of employment opportunities for significant benefits to the environment by reducing disabled people.
the inappropriate disposal of many larger domestic electrical appliances.
The Group is encouraging legislators to recognise these social and environmental benefits.
PACKAGE WASTE RECYCLING PER YEAR IN TONNES Card Paper Plastic film Polystyrene Total tonnage Change 2003 04 2,038 241 42 290 2,611 1.9% 2002 03 2,059 235 54 316 2,664 AVERAGE CO EMISSIONS FROM FLEET CARS 2 Grams Change 2003 04 144.00 4.5% 2002 03 150.86 30 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 Continuing innovation The Chief Executive chairs the Dixons Group The Groups reduced-plastic carrier bags saved European Forum, a body of elected employee 262 tonnes of plastic last year.
Group businesses operate local the Group introduced new 100 per cent recycled forums of elected representatives that provide carrier bags, the first such product to be widely the framework for consultation.
The bags are Performance and reward made in the UK from post consumer plastic waste The Group maintains a strong focus on performance generated in the UK.
Every tonne of bags made management to identify and develop high performers saves the equivalent of 1.8 tonnes of oil.
The and help employees to be more effective in their roles.
Group and its supplier Nelson Packaging won Bespoke training programmes equip employees the Best Environmental Initiative category at the with the skills needed to provide excellent customer 2004 Plastics Industry Awards for the new bags.
The Group operates four levels The tables on page 30 give the Groups of management training run in conjunction with UK performance against previously reported leading academic institutions.
Over 80 per cent environmental indicators and show a reduction of the first graduates of the Groups Executive in packaging waste delivered in part by efforts Development Programme have now been promoted.
to encourage suppliers to use less packaging.
In the UK, the Group arranges language training classes for employees.
EMPLOYMENT The Group operates a number of share schemes An inclusive workplace that encourage employees direct contribution to The Group seeks to provide equal opportunities achievement of Group and divisional goals and to all its employees regardless of age, sex, colour, reward individual and collective success.
Details are race, religion or ethnic origin.
The Groups flexible contained in the Remuneration Report.
Sharesave working arrangements attract and help retain the schemes in which there are approximately 5,000 best people.
An independent employee assistance participants are operated in the UK and Ireland.
programme offers free advice and support across More than 12,000 employees throughout the Group a range of practical, financial, legal and personal participate in discretionary share option schemes.
Respect for People and Being the Best, the Groups flagship values programmes, help create The Groups PC ServiceCall business in Nottingham an environment free from harassment, bullying beat international competition to be named Best and discrimination, with strong team spirit and Place to Work in IT by Computer Weekly magazine.
The award reflects the Groups focus on high performance workplaces.
The Group seeks to engage all employees in both its short and long-term goals.
This is achieved through Disability issues and customer service management briefings, focus groups, audiovisual The Group is a member of the Employers Forum presentations, newsletters and intranets.
The on Disability and maintains its strong focus on Groups employee newspaper, Frontline, has been disability issues.
The Group has conducted store awarded the Plain English Campaigns Crystal Mark and website accessibility audits and mystery for clarity.
Employee feedback is obtained through shopping, refreshed its training procedures, surveys which shape the design of reward and constructed an intranet-based learning resource training programmes and help the Group maintain for employees and is well advanced in preparations appropriate employment policies.
for the implementation of further provisions of the Disability Discrimination Act in October 2004.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 31 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP continued The Group is pleased to have achieved Positive and safety training plan for UK personnel and is About Disability status, represented by the two taking a fresh look at risk assessments for its ticks symbol.
The Link store in Leeds won a stores.
The Group has introduced new performance National DeafBlind Friendly Award during the year.
management tools, including more regular reporting of data to senior management and improved focus Further information, including the Groups full on risk assessment and legislative compliance.
statement of policy on disability issues, is available Locally, procedures are reviewed regularly in health on the website.
Any part of the Annual Report and and safety forums and by operations managers.
The Accounts, or any document from the corporate Group is on course to bring overseas procedures website, is available in alternative formats on in line with the high standards achieved in the UK.
co. uk or by telephoning @ A copy of the Group health and safety report is 01727 204474 or minicom 01727 206753. published on the website.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Additional support Policy and procedures The Group offers an employee assistance The Group Human Resources Director is responsible programme, operates a formal stress recognition for health and safety at Board level.
The Board has and management policy and a rehabilitation approved a new health and safety policy statement.
programme for employees injured at work.
The The Group has established a comprehensive health management of occupational road risk features HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT 2003 04 2002 03 Average UK employees headcount in the year FTE 23,571 24,024 Reports made under the UK Reporting Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 and Safety, Health & Welfare at Work Act 1989 Ireland 299 412 Of which: Injuries 22 designated major, 2002 03: 66 297 412 Fatality 1 0 Reportable disease 1 0 Dangerous occurrences 0 0 Reports per 1,000 employees 12.6 17 Total accidents 3,241 4,002 Change 19.0% Days lost in consequence: Retail operations 1,519 1,624 Non-retail 3,905 1,736 Total days lost 5,424 3,360 Days lost annually as percentage of total employee days 0.10% 0.06% Reported violence or threat of violence against employees 361 458 Change 21.2% Meningitis 32 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 prominently in the Groups strategy for reducing valuable dialogue with various local authorities and motor vehicle accidents.
Outcomes to date include better receive guidance on handling potentially violent procedures for handling queries from enforcement situations and avoiding confrontation.
authorities, new mystery shopping exercises, and better information sharing on standards issues.
The safety of customers, suppliers and other visitors is treated with equal importance.
Stores Payment of suppliers are required to carry out weekly health and safety It is the Groups policy to agree terms of checks to identify and make good shortcomings.
Payments are made in accordance with these terms provided A quality assurance programme exists for all that the supplier has complied with all relevant products.
Close relationships with suppliers contractual obligations.
Trade creditors at 1 May promote effective product testing and regular 2004 represented 35 days of annual purchases inspections of manufacturing facilities.
The Group made during the period 3 May 2003 38 days.
operates robust product recall procedures which, despite considerable growth in unit sales, are still Conduct called upon less than once a year on average.
All senior managers must certify annually their compliance with the Groups internal statement of The Groups performance on health and safety ethical conduct.
The Groups policies on gifts and is shown in the data table.
The Group regrets to inducements conform with the highest standards of report that one of its employees died in tragic business practice and avoid real or potential conflicts circumstances.
Ian Jones, based at the Groups of interest or conflict with legal requirements in the distribution centre at Erith, was killed by criminals markets where it operates.
The Group has rewritten who stole his delivery vehicle.
The Group has its policy on whistle-blowing to include a facility closely supported his family and colleagues as for employees to contact an independent body to well as offering every possible assistance to register concerns.
The Group acknowledges with the authorities investigating his death.
gratitude the assistance of the charity Public Concern at Work in developing this policy.
ETHICAL STANDARDS Supply chain management Disclosure The Group has continued to audit own-brand The Group does not generally respond to untargeted suppliers in Asia against its ethical procurement surveys and questionnaires about CSR related issues.
standards, although progress this year was slowed The information provided here, on the website, by the SARS outbreak.
One supplier was fide-listed and elsewhere within this Report and Accounts during the year for non-compliance.
The Group addresses many common CSR questions.
The has begun assessing the extent to which branded Group will however consider reasonable requests suppliers meet the criteria adopted for own-brand for further information.
These should be directed products and good progress has been made to date to the Company Secretary.
in securing agreements on acceptable standards.
Trading standards During the period, the Group in the UK has consulted widely with enforcement authorities to identify, DAVID LONGBOTTOM address and rectify issues relating to trading Group Human Resources Director standards performance.
Our Building Bridges programme to develop better links, has created DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 33 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 34 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 1 SIR JOHN COLLINS, Chairman 5 COUNT EMMANUEL DANDR, Sir John Collins 62 joined the Board in September 2001 Non-Executive Director as Deputy Chairman and was appointed Chairman in Count Emmanuel dAndr 66 joined the Board in February September 2002.
He is a director of NM Rothschild & 2002.
He is a non-executive director of Robert Bosch France Sons, the Peninsular and Oriental Navigation Company and a member of the Board of La Mondiale Insurance.
and Chairman of the DTI DEFRA Sustainable Energy Policy His previous positions have included membership of the Advisory Board.
He joined Shell in 1964 and was Chairman advisory committee of Banque fide France, Chairman of and Chief Executive of Shell UK, 1990 to 1993.
He was Chief Trois Suisses International Group, Chief Executive of Lapaud Executive of Vestey Group from 1993 to 2001.
Previous International, senior consultant with Arthur D. Little, Paris, appointments include Chairman of National Power plc, Development Director of the Express Group and a senior Chairman of Cantab Pharmaceuticals, a director of international manager with Camping Gaz.
He was a BSkyB, Stoll Moss Theatres and the London Symphony non-executive director of Auchan for six years.
Sir John has also served as Chairman of the 6RITA CLIFTON, Non-Executive Director Advisory Committee on Business and the Environment, Rita Clifton 46 joined the Board in September 2003.
She Chairman of the DTIs Energy and Advisory Panel and is Chairman of Interbrand and previously spent 18 years in as a governor of Wellington College.
He is Chairman the advertising industry including positions with Saatchi & of the Nominations Committee.
She is a member of the 2 JOHN CLARE, Group Chief Executive Government's Sustainable Development Commission and John Clare 53 joined the Group as Marketing Director has been involved with several Government and Millennium of Dixons in 1985.
He was appointed Managing Director projects on environmental and communications issues.
of Dixons Stores Group in 1988, when he also joined the She also sits on the Board of Advisers of the Judge Institute Group Board.
He became Group Managing Director in 1992 of Management Studies at the University of Cambridge.
and Group Chief Executive in 1994.
He is a non-executive 7 ANDREW LYNCH FCA, Non-Executive Director director of Hammerson plc, Chairman of the Governments Andrew Lynch 47 joined the Board in May 2003.
He is a Ambition Retail taskforce, a member of the National Director of Compass Group, where from 1997 to 2003 he Employment Panel and of the Edinburgh University held the position of Group Finance Director and is now Development Board.
Before joining Dixons he held Chief Executive Officer of Select Service Partner, its senior posts at Ladbroke Group plc and Mars Inc. concessions catering Division.
His earlier career included 3 JEREMY DARROCH, Group Finance Director corporate finance and financial management positions with Jeremy Darroch 41 joined the Group in January 2000 as Prudential Corporation plc and KPMG.
He is a Fellow of Retail Finance Director and was appointed Group Finance the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
He is Chairman of Director in March 2002.
He resigned from the Board on the Audit Committee and the Boards designated Senior 19 July 2004.
4DAVID LONGBOTTOM, Group Human Resources Director 8 JOHN WHYBROW, Non-Executive Director David Longbottom 60 was appointed to the Board in John Whybrow 57 joined the Board in June 2003.
He joined the Group as Management Chairman of Wolseley plc having been a non-executive Development Director in 1987 and held senior roles in director of Wolseley between 1997 and 2002.
He has been Currys, Retail Operations and Mastercare before being Chairman of CSR plc since its flotation in February 2004. appointed Group Human Resources Director in 1996.
He joined Philips in 1970 and was Executive Vice President He is the Board member responsible for corporate social of Royal Philips Electronics from 1998 to 2002.
He received responsibility and health and safety.
David is a director of the Polish Order of Merit in 2002.
He is Chairman of the P. Kotsovolos S. A. a non-executive director of Luminar plc, a Remuneration Committee.
member of the Royal College of Science and of the Institute From 19 July 2004 of Personnel and Development.
He joined the Group from KEVIN OBYRNE, Group Finance Director Lloyds of London having previously held positions at On 19 July 2004 Kevin OByrne was appointed Group Courtaulds plc and British Gas.
A resolution to re-appoint him as a director will be proposed at the annual general meeting Member of the Audit Committee on 8 September.
Biographical details are given in the Member of the Nominations Committee notice of meeting.
Member of the Remuneration Committee DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 35
