Genesis Communications PC World sales grew despite significant price The Link focused on contract sales during the year, deflation in PC hardware.
There was strong and recorded an increase of 14 per cent in contract growth in sales of laptops, accessories and connections.
Customer demand was driven by the wireless networks.
PC World exploited the growth launch of 3 and new handset developments.
Colour in wireless-ready smaller laptops through the screens and camera phones became the preferred creation of a thin and light laptop product area.
options for customers during the year.
The Link also All stores have installed wireless hotspots enabling recorded good sales of prepay phones.
full in-store use and display of this technology.
In the first half The Link launched its new concept Non-hardware sales were strong, helped by the Revolution store format, which gives greater continued success of in-store Component Centres.
prominence to contract connections and more Twelve new or resited PC World stores were effective display of handsets.
The format traded well opened during the year, taking the total to 138. throughout the year and was rolled out to 41 stores A similar number of stores is expected to open during the second half.
The remaining stores will be in the next 12 months.
converted to the new format in 2004 05.
Six stores were opened or resited during the year and eight There was strong growth in store catalogue stores were closed, taking the number of stores and public sector sales.
Sales of services also trading at year end to 288. performed well.
The number of actively trading accounts increased by 31 per cent during the Genesis Communications increased subscriber year to 106,000.
Since the year end, the Group numbers to over 150,000.
Genesis acquires and has acquired the UK operations of MicroWarehouse manages small business customers for the for 20.7 million.
This acquisition will increase PC Vodafone, O and T-Mobile networks, with a 2 Worlds position in the business to business market dedicated national field sales team.
During the and will enhance the Groups offering in specialist year, it relocated its operations to the PC World markets, including the Mac user community.
The Business head office in Bury.
Genesis is developing acquisition is expected to be mildly dilutive in year a close working relationship with The Link one, but earnings enhancing thereafter.
branded The Link Business and modelled on the successful partnership between PC World and PC World Business.
PC World m Sales 03 04 1,327.3 02 03 1,256.9 Total change 6% Like for like change 2% restated The Link m Sales 03 04 407.4 02 03 370.7 Total change 10% Like for like change 10% 7 8 restated DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 19
