SENIOR MANAGEMENT GROUP MANAGEMENT UK RETAIL SUPPORT COMPUTING & EUROPEAN COMPANY SECRETARIAL Peter Ambrose COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRICALS & LEGAL Neale Chinery Andrew Gabriel Per Bjrgs Geoffrey Budd Roger Dew Simon Turner Nicholas Cadbury Neil Ogilvie Mark Feltham James Welsh Mark Rollman Bruce Marsh Fredrik Steenbuch FINANCE, SYSTEMS PC WORLD UK Sue Philipson & CORPORATE Phil Birbeck ELKJP Peter Riordan DEVELOPMENT Steve Campbell Nils Petter Bjrnstad Kath Roach Iain Andrew Peter Duncombe Ronny Blomseth Steve Carroll Paul Mitford UK & IRELAND Denmark Andrew Milliken Neil Old ELECTRICALS Jesper Boysen Kevin OByrne Tim Clifford PC WORLD BUSINESS Andrew Owen Norway Simon Davies David Gould Martin Sidders Henrik Bjonnes Irene Paull Derek Lloyd HUMAN RESOURCES Elaine Rowe Finland GENESIS Camilla Aitchison Nick Wilkinson Irmeli Rytknen COMMUNICATIONS Ben Bengougam CURRYS Richard Millman Sweden Louise Bentham Pete Bowers Per Sigvardsson John Francis PC CITY EUROPE Richard Carter David Longbottom Jorge Benlloch ELECTRO WORLD Carl Cowling Keith Jones Geir Langbakken PURCHASING Steve Crook Neil Robertson Spain Mike Hedgecox Hungary Ken Sladen Peter Keenan Fernando fide Vicente Peter Sebestyen Paul McClenaghan PROPERTY & France Czech Republic STORE DESIGN Etienne Alexandre DSG IRELAND Jiri Rizek Martin Meech Bryan Magrath Italy UNIEURO George Wilding Guido Zucchi DISTRIBUTION Piero Bagnasco FINANCIAL SERVICES Michael Carse Felice Cippolina Sweden David Campbell John Dunne Corrado Colli Morten Syversen Max Frei Martin Fletcher Gianni Gandolfi Dorothy Winrow SERVICE Alberto Mosca DIXONS Nick Fisher OMNI SOURCE Edward Fitzmaurice Richard Ames Geoff Bellingham Matt Dixon Bill Marsh Terry Greenwood Peter Northwood John Mewett Kristian Kulsrud Mike Nuttall THE LINK Phil Logan Liz Purdy Mike Ashley Nick Wood Simon Crowfoot Elizabeth Fagan Member of the Group Paul Nunn Executive Committee 36 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 ACCOUNTS 38 DIRECTORS REPORT 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 46 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 47 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT 48 REMUNERATION REPORT 57 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 57 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 59 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 59 STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES 60 BALANCE SHEETS 61 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 62 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90 FIVE YEAR RECORD 92 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 37 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of Dixons Group plc the Company and its subsidiary and associated undertakings the Group for the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2004.
Comparative figures are for the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003.
The Groups results together with a review of its operations and future prospects are set out in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Operating and Financial Review and Corporate Citizenship review which form part of this report.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The Company is the parent company of a group engaged in the retail sale of high technology consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances, photographic equipment, communication products and related financial and after-sales services.
The Group also undertakes business to business sales in the computer and communications sectors.
Its subsidiaries operate in the UK, the Nordic region, Italy, Spain, Ireland, France, Hungary and the Czech Republic.
The Group also has retail interests in Greece.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT On 4 June 2004 the Group acquired for cash consideration of 20.7 million the UK operations of Micro Warehouse, a business to business seller of computers and related goods and services under the Micro Warehouse, MacWarehouse, Inmac and Technomatic brands.
DIVIDENDS An interim dividend of 1.660 pence per share was paid on 1 March 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 30 January 2004.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 5.660 pence per share, making total dividends of 7.320 pence per share for the period 2002 03 6.655 pence per share.
Subject to shareholders approval at the forthcoming annual general meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 30 September 2004 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 27 August 2004.
Information on the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan is available from the Registrars whose details are on page 92.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of the Companys share capital, including changes to the issued share capital during the period, are given in note 24 to the financial statements.
Details of share options granted and exercised in the period and consideration received are shown in note 25 to the financial statements.
At the annual general meeting held on 10 September 2003 shareholders authorised the directors to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares to a maximum of 194 million shares for a period expiring on the date of the next annual general meeting.
Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the annual general meeting on 8 September 2004.
On 23 June 2004 the Company announced its intention to repurchase shares to the value of 200 million through a share repurchase programme.
38 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS At 23 June 2004 the following interests of more than 3 per cent in the issued share capital had been notified to the Company pursuant to sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended : Number of ordinary shares % of issued share capital The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 175,250,519 8.99% FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 173,591,582 8.91% Barclays PLC 79,523,256 4.08% Aviva plc 62,019,108 3.18% Legal & General Group Plc 61,495,190 3.15% Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. 59,052,965 3.03% DIRECTORS Details of the directors who served throughout the period are shown on pages 34 and 35.
The following changes occurred during the period: Date Appointment Resignation Executive David Hamid 20 May 2003 Resignation David Gilbert 1 September 2003 Resignation Mark Souhami 1 September 2003 Resignation Non-executive Andrew Lynch 20 May 2003 Appointment John Whybrow 24 June 2003 Appointment Rita Clifton 1 September 2003 Appointment Lord Blackwell 1 September 2003 Resignation Karen Cook 2 September 2003 Resignation In accordance with the Articles of Association, Sir John Collins and Count Emmanuel dAndr will retire by rotation at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
Their biographies are shown on page 35.
Subject to their re-appointment, Sir John Collins and Count Emmanuel dAndr have been appointed, pursuant to letters dated 3 July 2001 subsequently amended and 30 January 2002 respectively, for three year terms ending on 11 September 2005 and 1 September 2005 respectively.
The Board is satisfied that the performance and commitment of both the retiring directors qualify them for re-appointment to the Board.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 and 55.
No director had any beneficial interests in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking or in any contract or arrangement apart from contracts of service to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party during or at the end of the financial period.
POLICY AND PRACTICE ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS The Groups policy and practice on payment of suppliers is shown in the Corporate Citizenship review on page 33.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 39 DIRECTORS REPORT continued POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS During the period, the Group donated 875,000 2002 03 875,000 to The Dixons Foundation, a registered charitable trust.
Further details of the Groups charitable activities are set out in the Corporate Citizenship review on page 29.
At the annual general meeting held on 10 September 2003 shareholders gave authority to the directors to make donations to EU Political Organisations and to incur EU Political Expenditure as defined in the Companies Act to an aggregate amount not exceeding 50,000 in the two-year period ending with the annual general meeting in 2005.
During 2003 04, the Company made no payments 2002 03 5,665, which constituted EU Political Expenditure.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES AND EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT Details of the Groups equal opportunities policies and the ways in which it seeks to involve employees in the Groups business are set out in the Corporate Citizenship review on pages 31 and 32.
AUDITORS Deloitte & Touche LLP are willing to continue in office as auditors to the Company.
Resolutions for their re-appointment and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The annual general meeting will be held on 8 September 2004 at The Marriott Hotel, Grosvenor Square, London W1 at 11.30 a. m. In addition to standard items of business, shareholders will be asked to approve amendments to the Companys Articles of Association and Employee Share Schemes.
Notice of the meeting, together with full details and an explanation of the business to be considered, is given in a separate letter accompanying this report.
By Order of the Board G D BUDD Secretary 23 June 2004 40 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company maintains high standards of corporate governance for which the directors are collectively accountable to shareholders.
Sound governance is central to achieving the directors prime objective of maximising shareholder value and comprises, principally, the processes by which the Group is directed and managed, risks are identified and controlled and effective accountability is assured.
COMBINED CODE The following statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56, the Audit Committee Report on pages 46 and 47 and the Nominations Committee Report on page 47 sets out the manner in which the Group has throughout the period applied the principles contained in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK Financial Services Authority in June 1998 the Combined Code.
The statement also reflects the manner in which the Board has sought compliance with the revised Combined Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 which includes suggestions for good practice from the Higgs Report and guidance on audit committees the Smith Guidance.
The revised Combined Code will take effect for the Company for the 52 week period ending 30 April 2005.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS As reported last year, a restructuring of the Board was announced on 20 May 2003 with the principal aim of achieving a more even balance between executive and non-executive representation, a structure endorsed by the Higgs Report.
Accordingly since 1 September 2003 the Board has comprised a non-executive Chairman, four non-executive directors considered by the Board to be independent and three executive directors.
Changes to the Board during the period are set out in the Directors Report on page 39.
Detailed biographies of the Board members are shown on page 35.
During the year the Board reviewed and updated the schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
These include: approval of the Groups strategy and annual budget: overseeing of the Groups operations to ensure competent and prudent management, sound planning, an adequate system of internal control, appropriate accounting, keeping of proper records, and compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations: approval of acquisitions and divestments: and annual review and approval of the overall levels of insurance for the Group including directors and officers liability insurance and indemnification of directors.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board appears on the corporate website www.
An annual meeting of the Board focuses on the longer term strategic direction of the Group and the markets in which it operates.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its principal committees and of their processes was undertaken in July 2003 to an agenda constructed with the assistance of the Companys auditors.
This process is being repeated in 2004 and includes an assessment of the individual members of the Board facilitated by a senior member of the HR team with recent relevant management consultancy experience.
There is frequent contact between directors to progress the Groups business.
A corporate governance framework has been approved by the Board defining the role and responsibilities of the constituent elements of the Groups management structure.
This enables the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the Groups activities to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Chairman ensures that the Board has full and timely access to all relevant information and holds occasional meetings with the non-executive directors to discuss corporate strategy and performance.
The offices of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately and written statements of their responsibilities have been approved by the Board.
Throughout the financial period Sir John Collins fulfilled the role of Senior Independent Director.
Since 18 May 2004, Andrew Lynch has been designated by the Board as the Senior Independent Director.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
On appointment, each director receives a tailored induction programme into the Group together with guidance and training appropriate to their level of previous experience.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet members of senior management regularly and to undertake visits to all parts of the Group, particularly newly acquired and developing businesses.
Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changes in commercial and financial risks.
The Articles of Association require one third of the Board not otherwise subject to re-appointment by shareholders to retire by rotation each year and ensure that over a three-year period each director is subject to re-appointment by shareholders in general meeting.
Details of the directors retiring by rotation at the annual general meeting on 8 September 2004 are set out in the Directors Report on page 39.
The Board met nine times during the period excluding ad hoc meetings convened to deal with procedural matters.
All directors attended all meetings apart from Andrew Lynch who was unable to be present on 22 July 2003.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has established a number of committees to which it has delegated specific responsibilities.
Trading divisions are managed by separate executive committees.
Separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, including details of membership and terms of reference, are set out on pages 46 to 56.
Membership of the other principal committees and a summary of their terms of reference are shown below: Members Meetings held number of meetings attended during the period during period Summary terms of reference Chairmans Committee Sir John Collins Chairman 11 11 A forum for the Chairman to monitor and Mark Souhami 3 until 1 September 2003 review the development and implementation of John Clare 11 strategy and to report appropriately to the Board.
Jeremy Darroch 11 David Longbottom 10 Group Executive Committee John Clare Chairman 6 6 Responsible for the implementation of Per Bjrgs 4 strategy and the day to day management Jeremy Darroch 5 of the Groups business.
David Gilbert 3 until 6 February 2004 David Hamid until 23 May 2003 David Longbottom 5 Simon Turner 6 Nick Wilkinson 6 Oscar Farinetti 1 until 30 August 2003 Nick Wood from 1 May 2004 The Company Secretary is secretary of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Chairmans Committees.
These committees operate within written terms of reference approved by the Board which are available on request from the Company Secretary and may be viewed on the corporate website at www.
The Board receives and reviews minutes of their meetings.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board attaches considerable importance to the maintenance of constructive relationships with shareholders.
Effective two way communication with institutional investors and analysts is established through regular presentations and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest including corporate strategy and governance issues.
Matters arising from these presentations and meetings are communicated to the Board.
Presentations are conducted in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys guidance on the dissemination of price sensitive information to ensure the protection of such information which has not already been made available generally to the Companys shareholders.
42 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 The annual general meeting is regarded as an opportunity to communicate directly with private shareholders.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice of the annual general meeting and related documents are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially different issue.
The notice is contained in a separate circular accompanying this report.
In addition to the interim and annual reports, shareholders can obtain information about the Group posted on the corporate website www.
Services available to shareholders are summarised on pages 92 and 93 of this report.
PENSION SCHEMES The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme operates in the UK where the Group maintains a funded defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution scheme.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the Group by trustees.
There are six trustees: three members of senior management and three external trustees Hugh Jenkins CBE Chairman, Mrs Jane Newell OBE and Dr Ann Robinson.
The power of appointment of new trustees is vested in the trustees.
Asset management is delegated to four independent companies whose performance is monitored by a specialist performance measurement service.
Custody and investment management functions are separated.
The schemes accounts are audited annually by Nexia Audit Limited, who are not auditors to any Group companies.
Members of the scheme receive an annual statement of their accrued benefits and a copy of the trustees annual report.
The defined benefit section of this scheme has been closed to new members since 1 September 2002.
Membership of the defined contribution section of this scheme is available to all UK employees of the Group with a years service or more as at 1 March 2003.
Further information about pensions is given in note 27 to the financial statements.
INTERNAL CONTROL In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull working party set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Group has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
This process was in place throughout the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2004 and to the date of approval of the financial statements and is subject to continual review and enhancement to improve effectiveness.
RESPONSIBILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness as well as the Groups approach to risk management.
The Board delegates to executive management the day to day responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Groups operations, and for implementing and maintaining internal control systems that manage those risks in an efficient and effective manner, appropriate to their nature and scale.
Executive management is accountable to the Board for providing assurance over the design and operation of the internal control systems it has implemented.
The management of each Group company is responsible for internal control and risk management within its own business and for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
INHERENT LIMITATIONS AND CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT In determining its policies on internal control, the Board has regard to the materiality of the relevant risks, the likelihood of losses occurring and the costs of control.
The directors are aware that the inherent limitations in any system of control mean that risk cannot be totally eliminated.
It follows that the Groups system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than remove, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and that it can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups approach to managing and monitoring internal control and risk assessment is regularly reviewed to identify ways in which it can be improved and further embedded throughout the Groups operations.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued CONTROL ENVIRONMENT AND CONTROL ACTIVITIES In addition to the corporate governance structure described above, the Groups system of internal control and processes for managing risk comprise the following main elements: the Board and management committees meet regularly to monitor progress against the targets set out in the Groups budget and strategic three year plan and to consider the quarterly re-forecasts of the Groups expected financial period end position.
A variety of financial and non-financial performance reports is produced daily, weekly and four-weekly to facilitate this review process: the defined lines of authority established by the Board ensure that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate level.
These include requirements for the approval and control of both capital and operating expenditure, treasury operations and cash management: each business function has established procedures and controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the Groups assets.
These procedures and controls include the segregation of duties, the provision of regular performance information and exception reports, review and approval procedures for key transactions, compliance with relevant laws and regulations, the maintenance of proper records and the reconciliation of balances.
Wherever possible the Groups computer systems are designed to enforce the execution of such controls: appropriate controls and procedures have been established over the security of data held on, and functionality provided by, the Groups business systems.
These include disaster recovery arrangements.
The computer systems are periodically tested and reviewed by both internal and external audit functions: the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles assigned to them.
Established performance review and development mechanisms exist to identify key objectives and areas for improvement for each member of staff.
Succession planning forms an integral part of HR management: Group Treasury operates within established and documented policies and procedures.
The policies are described in the Operating and Financial Review on page 26 and are reviewed and approved annually by the Group Executive Committee: the Groups programme of insurance covers the material risks to the Groups assets and business and is reviewed annually by the Group Executive Committee and the Audit Committee: following major acquisitions, post completion assessments are carried out: and all entities within the Group are required to adhere to common standards of internal control and corporate governance, which are specified in documented guidance.
ASSURANCE AND MONITORING The Board, through the Audit Committee, seeks ongoing assurance that the control environment and activities described above are designed and are operating effectively.
The manner in which this is achieved is as follows: INTERNAL AUDIT AND RISK ASSURANCE FUNCTIONS The Group operates an internal audit function partly outsourced to KPMG LLP that is independent of the Groups external auditors.
This provides independent and objective assurance over the effectiveness of internal control in key business processes, activities and business development programmes.
Findings from internal audits are reported to the Audit Committee and to management using a systematic, objective approach to evaluate the overall effectiveness of controls and risk management within the area or process under review.
Recommendations for improving control are made to management where necessary and the internal audit function monitors progress on these until resolution or implementation.
The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on the status of recommendations.
Evaluation mechanisms designed to identify significant control failures operate across key business processes within the Group.
These are subject to regular review and refinement to extend both their reach and the quality of the information they provide.
The Audit Committee receives a quarterly report on the status of controls monitored in this way.
44 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 The risk assurance function facilitates an annual review of the Groups risk profile with the executive management team.
A continuous programme of risk assessment and monitoring was introduced into the Groups major operations during the year.
Summaries of the significant risks and mitigating controls generated by this programme are prepared for and reviewed by the Audit Committee quarterly.
SELF-ASSESSMENT Annually, all members of senior management submit certificates on the effectiveness of controls in their business area.
These are supported by assessments of business risks and controls in key processes and business operations.
Additional assurances are sought on internal financial controls on a more frequent basis.
Annually, all business operations are asked to evaluate their Corporate Governance framework against the Groups documented benchmark, and agree actions to address any gaps identified.
SPECIALIST FUNCTIONS AND COMMITTEES Other specialist functions and committees within the Group provide additional assurance over key areas of risk and report regularly to the Board or Audit Committee both on their activities and on any significant control issues arising.
These include stock control, retail control, security, health and safety, insurance, environment, treasury, taxation, legal and regulatory compliance and corporate social responsibility.
A Group-wide financial controls steering committee meets regularly to monitor progress of control initiatives.
Key areas of focus include corporate governance, internal audit, risk assurance, financial control reporting, financial and treasury operations.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Group operates a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee, chaired by the Company Secretary, which meets at least four times annually.
The Group Director of Human Resources is a member of the CSR Committee and is the Board member with specific responsibility for social, environmental, ethical and other CSR-related matters.
All Group Board members receive regular updates on CSR issues, risks and opportunities and the Board has agreed to discuss progress in detail at least annually.
The CSR Committee makes recommendations on measurement tools and audit procedures and reports on the effectiveness of systems for managing CSR-related matters.
Where relevant performance measures do not exist, the Committee considers methods for measuring, auditing or validating Group CSR performance.
Further information on Corporate Social Responsibility is given on pages 28 to 33 and on the corporate website.
COMPLIANCE The directors consider that the Company has throughout the period complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code as issued in June 1998 with the exception that until 1 September 2003 the Nominations Committee was chaired by Mark Souhami, the then Deputy Chairman, rather than by the Chairman or a non-executive director.
During that period, the Committee comprised a majority of non-executive directors and the Board considers that this constituted an effective balance of internal and independent views on Board appointments.
Since 1 September 2003 the Nominations Committee has comprised Sir John Collins Chairman, the four independent non-executive directors and John Clare Chief Executive and the Company has accordingly complied fully with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code from that date.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 45 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The principal function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to shareholders by monitoring the Groups internal control regime, reviewing financial reporting matters including accounting policies, compliance and areas of management judgement and estimates and the results of internal and external audit.
During the financial period, the Audit Committee comprised the non-executive directors other than Sir John Collins.
Andrew Lynch assumed the Chairmanship of the Committee following the resignation of Lord Blackwell from the Board on 1 September 2003.
Further details of the members of the Committee are set out on page 35.
Andrew Lynch, as Chairman of the Committee, receives an additional fee of 3,700 per annum.
The other members of the Committee do not receive additional fees in respect of their membership or attendance at meetings.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary of the Committee, minutes of whose meetings were circulated promptly to all Board members.
The Committee met four times during the period in June, September, January and April.
Members of the Committee attended all of its meetings apart from the meeting held in September when Rita Clifton and Count Emmanuel dAndr were unable to be present.
Each meeting of the Committee was attended by representatives of the external auditors and by the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the Director of Risk Assurance.
During the period, the Committee received reports from relevant functional heads including security, tax and insurance.
Part of each meeting was held between the members of the Committee, the external auditors and the Director of Risk Assurance in private.
At each meeting the Committee reviewed reports from the Director of Risk Assurance with special reference to control and management issues raised by internal audit and risk reviews of various parts of the Groups UK and international businesses particularly in relation to newly established or recently acquired businesses.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups accounting policies, new and emerging accounting standards and their potential impact on the Groups financial statements.
The Committee reviewed the work programme of the risk assurance and internal audit functions and took note of the progress in implementing proposals arising from their reports.
The effectiveness of the internal audit function was also reviewed.
The Committee approved a revised and strengthened policy explaining how employees throughout the Group are able to raise in confidence concerns over financial or other irregularities.
The policy includes provision for such matters to be raised, if desired, with an independent outsourced specialist organisation.
At the meetings in June and January, the Committee considered the external auditors reports summarising their findings on the final audit and interim review, focusing in particular on areas of management judgement and accounting treatments, and reviewed drafts of the results announcements.
As well as recommending the appointment of auditors, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope of the external audit and the effectiveness of the audit process, recommending to the Board the annual audit fee and monitoring fees paid to the auditors and other advisers for non audit work.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the independence of auditors.
This places prime responsibility on the external auditors to satisfy the Committee that they follow appropriate professional standards and best practice and have in place internal systems and checks to ensure that the audit team is able and motivated to perform the independent audit role effectively.
During the year a new Senior Audit Partner was assigned to the audit in accordance with the audit firms rotation policy.
The Audit Committee monitors the level and nature of non audit work undertaken by the audit firm to limit the risk of conflicting interests.
All engagements of the audit firm are notified to and cleared by the Group Financial Controller against agreed criteria.
The Committee is satisfied that the level of non audit fees paid to the auditors as disclosed in note 3 to the financial statements is appropriate, noting that it is to a significant extent attributable to work initiated over a number of years with specialist advisers principally tax previously employed by Arthur Andersen who are now employees of Deloitte & Touche LLP and where it would therefore be uneconomic or impractical to instruct alternative advisers at this stage.
The Committee intends that the policy will be reviewed annually and has a clear obligation to ensure auditor independence and objectivity.
The Committee remains satisfied with the objectivity and independence of the Groups auditors.
46 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and approved by the Board during the period and are available on the corporate website at www.
Approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf on 23 June 2004 by ANDREW LYNCH FCA Chairman of the Audit Committee NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Until 1 September 2003 the Nominations Committee comprised Mark Souhami Chairman, Lord Blackwell, John Clare, Sir John Collins, Karen Cook and Count Emmanuel dAndr.
Following the implementation of the Board restructuring announced on 20 May 2003, Sir John Collins assumed the chairmanship of the Committee, its other members being John Clare, Count Emmanuel dAndr, Rita Clifton, Andrew Lynch and John Whybrow.
Further details of the members of the Committee are shown on page 35.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary of the Committee, minutes of whose meetings were circulated promptly to the Board.
The Committee met twice during the period.
All its members attended both meetings.
The Committees primary function is to review, at least annually and as required, the size and composition of the Board and its principal committees and to submit recommendations for new Board appointments to the Board for approval, having particular regard to the need for effective succession planning.
During the period the Committees terms of reference were reviewed and approved by the Board.
They can be found on the corporate website at www.
During the period the Committee oversaw the restructuring of the Board which included the appointment of new non-executive directors to replace those retiring during the year and of additional non-executive directors to strengthen their representation on the Board.
A selection process based on role specifications was drawn up by the Committee and approved by the Board.
A specialist recruitment agency was engaged to identify candidates from a wide range of backgrounds who met the criteria in terms of skills, capabilities, experience and time availability.
Short lists were drawn up and interviews conducted by the Committee, following which recommendations were made to and approved by the Board.
The non-executive directors appointed through this process during the period were Andrew Lynch appointed 20 May 2003, John Whybrow appointed 24 June 2003 and Rita Clifton appointed on 1 September 2003.
Approved by the Nominations Committee and signed on its behalf on 23 June 2004 by SIR JOHN COLLINS Chairman of the Nominations Committee DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 47 REMUNERATION REPORT This report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Apart from the information relating to individual remuneration, share options, share interests and pensions information on pages 51 to 56, the information contained in this report is not subject to audit.
The purposes of this report are to inform shareholders of the Companys policies on directors remuneration in operation for the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2004, of the policies applicable to the 52 weeks ending 30 April 2005 and the intended policies thereafter, and to provide details of the remuneration of individual directors as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Shareholders will be asked to approve this report at the annual general meeting on 8 September 2004.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Until 1 September 2003 the Remuneration Committee comprised Sir John Collins Chairman, Count Emmanuel dAndr, Lord Blackwell and Karen Cook.
Following the implementation of the Board restructuring, John Whybrow as chairman, Andrew Lynch and Rita Clifton were appointed in their place.
The Remuneration Committee met 5 times during the period.
Its terms of reference, which are available on the corporate website at www.
co. uk, were reviewed and amended during the year.
Members number of meetings attended during the period John Whybrow Chairman 3 since 1 September 2003 Andrew Lynch 3 since 1 September 2003 Rita Clifton 2 since 1 September 2003 Sir John Collins 2 until 1 September 2003 Lord Blackwell 2 until 1 September 2003 Karen Cook 2 until 1 September 2003 Count Emmanuel dAndr 2 until 1 September 2003 The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee responsibility for determining the Companys policy in relation to and specific approval of the remuneration package and terms of employment for each of the executive directors and for other senior executives of the Group.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation in an advisory capacity.
Meetings are also attended by the Director of Employee Reward and the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Committee and occasionally by representatives of remuneration consultants.
Nobody attends any part of a meeting at which his or her own remuneration is discussed.
During the period the reconstituted Committee conducted a fundamental review of remuneration policy and remuneration packages applicable to the executive directors and other members of senior management.
For this purpose they commissioned a report from KPMG LLP who were chosen from a shortlisted panel of three firms of remuneration consultants following written and oral presentations from each.
This process was approved by the Committee and overseen by its chairman.
The Committee was cognisant of the role played by KPMG LLP in relation to the Companys internal audit function and the provision of other tax and accounting advice for which they earned fees of 493,378 in the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2004 but considered that their presentations, credentials and relevant experience justified their appointment to advise the Committee on remuneration matters.
They were paid fees of 58,995 in respect of this work.
The Company has also utilised the services of Towers Perrin and The Monks Partnership mainly for salary benchmarking.
48 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 REMUNERATION POLICY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The policy aims: to ensure that remuneration packages fairly recognise the contribution of individual directors to the attainment of the Groups short and longer term results and objectives and, where appropriate in the case of senior management, of the performance of individual trading divisions: to maintain a competitive package of pay and other benefits which will provide the motivation for future achievement, particularly through reward schemes based on performance: in an increasingly competitive retail environment, to facilitate the building and retention of a high calibre team which will work effectively to achieve the Groups longer term strategic objectives, especially through the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders by participation in schemes which provide opportunities to build shareholdings in the Company: and to facilitate effective succession planning.
In implementing this policy, the Remuneration Committee takes account of information from internal and independent sources and the remuneration paid for comparable positions in FTSE 100 companies, especially those with overseas interests.
In particular it reviews data provided by remuneration consultants and market research companies on the scale and composition of the total remuneration package payable in similar businesses to people with comparable responsibilities, qualifications, skills and experience.
The executive directors remuneration is reviewed at the start of each financial period.
The main components of their remuneration are as follows: i Basic salaries These reflect the Remuneration Committees assessment of the market rate for relevant positions and levels of responsibility and the individual directors experience, performance and value to the business.
No increases were awarded at the start of the financial period.
Basic salaries were increased in September 2003 at the time of the implementation of the deferred Group-wide pay review.
Basic salaries were also increased at the start of the 2004 05 financial period, in line with the Group-wide merit-based pay review.
ii Performance related remuneration The Remuneration Committee considers it important that executive directors remuneration should include a significant element which is performance based, designed to develop an alignment between the interests of the Companys shareholders and its senior management and to encourage retention.
During the period the executive directors participated in the Deferred Equity Participation Plan DEPP which provides both an annual cash bonus and deferred equity participation.
Performance is measured by reference to growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS which the Remuneration Committee considers to be a key indicator of corporate performance.
A bonus based on the level of growth may be payable part in cash and part in shares, the share element being matched by the Company on a basis determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Shares awarded under the DEPP are allocated to a share bank.
One third of the shares in the share bank is released each year to participants whilst they remain in the Groups employment.
In this way the value of share awards reflects the performance of the Company over a number of years, the participants retain a continuing interest in the shares of the Company and are encouraged to remain with the Group.
No bonuses were earned in respect of the financial year 2002 03.
For the financial period ended 1 May 2004 the maximum bonus payable to the Group Chief Executive was 100 per cent of basic salary for EPS growth of 20 per cent with a maximum payable to other participating executive directors of 85 per cent of basic salary.
EPS growth of 10 per cent would generate bonuses of 70 per cent and 59.5 per cent, respectively.
Any bonus earned would be payable 60 per cent in cash and 40 per cent in shares with a one for one match.
No bonuses would be payable unless EPS growth exceeded 5 per cent.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 49 REMUNERATION REPORT continued Cash bonuses earned in relation to the financial year 2003 04 based on EPS growth of 9.5 per cent are: John Clare, 233,945, Jeremy Darroch, 102,980 and David Longbottom, 92,969.
For this purpose, EPS growth excludes the additional operating profit arising from the changed accounting policy in relation to extended warranty and service contracts which is described in note 1 to the financial statements.
In 2003 04 over 350 employees across the Group participated in incentive plans which incorporate an element of deferred equity participation.
For 2004 05 the DEPP will be replaced by an annual cash bonus plan based on the achievement of Group or, where appropriate, divisional targets.
The maximum bonuses payable under the plan will remain unchanged at 100 per cent of basic salary for the Chief Executive, 85 per cent for the other executive directors and 80 per cent for other participating executives.
Longer term performance will be reflected in the award of performance shares being ordinary shares of the Company under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Performance will be measured in terms of the Total Shareholder Return TSR achieved by the Company over a three-year period relative to the companies comprising the FTSE100 Index.
The maximum award of performance shares, for performance in the upper quartile, will be 50 per cent of basic salary in the case of the Chief Executive, 45 per cent for the other executive directors and 40 per cent for other participating executives.
No awards will be payable for performance below the median TSR achieved by the comparator group.
At the median performance awards will be 20 per cent, 18 per cent and 16 per cent of basic salary respectively.
Prior to vesting the Remuneration Committee will satisfy itself that the TSR performance achieved reasonably reflects the financial performance of the Group and will reserve the right to vary awards accordingly.
iii Bonus arrangements following the disposal of Freeserve In February 2001 following the sale of the Groups majority shareholding in Freeserve plc to Wanadoo S. A. and in accordance with arrangements set out in the circular to shareholders dated 21 December 2000 seeking approval to the sale, the Remuneration Committee approved share bonus arrangements for all employees of the Groups UK businesses as at 23 February 2001 in recognition of their contribution to the substantial shareholder value created by the launch, development and eventual sale of Freeserve.
As part of these arrangements, the executive directors and 35 other members of senior management received awards of shares in the Company, vesting in three equal annual instalments, subject to their remaining in the employment of the Group.
The final instalment was paid in February 2004.
All other employees received awards of Wanadoo S. A. shares, vesting in two equal annual instalments.
The final instalment was paid in February 2003. iv Taxable benefits Each of the executive directors is provided with a car and related benefits or cash payments in lieu and is a member of the non-contributory Dixons Group medical expenses plan.
These benefits are similar in scale and type to those applicable in similar companies.
v Pensions and related benefits The executive directors accrued benefits under the senior executive section of the Dixons Retirement and Employee Security Scheme DRESS.
This is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, contributory pension scheme which provides a pension at normal retirement age 60 of two thirds of pensionable salary subject to a minimum period of 20 years membership.
Part of this pension may be commuted for cash at the date of retirement.
Membership of the scheme also confers dependants pensions, insured lump sums on death in service and benefits in the event of prolonged disability.
Details of pension benefits earned by continuing directors during the financial period are shown on page 56.
Jeremy Darroch is the only executive director whose pensionable salary is limited by the statutory earnings cap currently 102,000 per annum.
He receives a non-pensionable salary supplement equivalent to the contributions which otherwise would have been paid by the Company to DRESS on that part of his pensionable salary which exceeds the earnings cap.
A similar arrangement applies to nine other senior executives.
Notice has been given to the executive directors that with effect from the financial period beginning in May 2004, cash bonuses will not form part of their pensionable salary.
50 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 vi Share options The Remuneration Committee approves the bases on which options are granted to executive directors and employees throughout the Group under the Companys discretionary share option schemes.
Options are normally granted annually to executive directors over shares having a market value equal to their basic salary.
Options are granted to other employees in the UK and overseas on the basis of management grade and to employees with more than three years service.
Over 12,000 employees currently participate in the discretionary share option schemes.
Options granted to the executive directors under the discretionary schemes before July 2003 may not normally be exercised unless the market price on the date of exercise is at least 20 per cent higher than the option price, assuming exercise takes place three years after the date of grant.
For later exercises, the rate of share price growth is adjusted in line with the Retail Price Index RPI.
Exercise is also conditional upon EPS having increased by not less than 3 per cent above the RPI over any consecutive period of three years during the life of the option.
Options granted in 2003 will be exercisable only if on the third, fourth or fifth anniversaries of the date of grant EPS growth over the period since the date of grant exceeds the RPI by at least 3 per cent per annum compound.
Options will lapse if the performance criterion has not been met after five years from the date of grant.
For future grants of share options there will be a single performance criterion with no retests.
The performance measure will be growth in EPS over a three-year period.
Options up to 100 per cent of basic salary will vest if EPS growth is at least RPI plus 3 per cent.
Shareholders consent will be sought at the annual general meeting on 8 September 2004 to increase the value of options which may be granted in any year from one to two times remuneration.
Subject to such consent and to Inland Revenue approval, if the Remuneration Committee approves a grant of options above 100 per cent of basic salary, they will vest in full only if over the three-year performance period EPS growth is equal to or greater than the RPI plus 5 per cent.
Where EPS growth is between RPI plus 3 per cent and RPI plus 5 per cent, options will vest on a straight line basis between 100 per cent and 200 per cent of basic salary.
Executive directors are also entitled to participate in the Sharesave Scheme on the same conditions as other employees.
vii Service agreements In line with the remuneration policy, each of the executive directors has a service agreement with DSG Retail Limited which may be terminated at any time by 12 months notice.
Service agreements contain neither a liquidated damages nor a change of control clause.
It is the Companys policy to ensure that any payments made to a director in the event of the early termination of a service agreement reflect the circumstances giving rise to termination and, where considered appropriate, the obligation of the outgoing director to mitigate his loss.
The service agreements of the executive directors who served during the financial period were entered into on the following dates: Date Mark Souhami resigned 1 September 2003 25 November 1993 John Clare 3 February 1989 Jeremy Darroch 13 May 2002 David Gilbert resigned 6 February 2004 6 May 1997 David Hamid resigned 20 May 2003 6 May 1997 David Longbottom 9 December 2002 The service agreements of the continuing directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on each business day.
viii External directorships Executive directors are permitted to accept non-executive directorships in external companies and to retain the fees which they receive in such roles.
Normally only one such appointment will be authorised for each director.
During the period John Clare was a non-executive director of Hammerson plc and was paid a fee at the rate of 29,000 per annum.
David Longbottom was appointed a director of Luminar plc on 16 April 2004 at a fee of 31,000 per annum.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 51 REMUNERATION REPORT continued ix Former directors audited information a President Pursuant to an agreement dated 1 October 2002, Sir Stanley now Lord Kalms, the former Chairman, was appointed President of the Company for an initial period ending on 16 September 2012.
He was paid 25,456 for his services as President during the year.
His remuneration is subject to annual review in line with the RPI.
He was provided with benefits amounting to 34,699 comprising membership of the Groups medical expenses plan, a car and related benefits.
He was also provided with office facilities.
Upon his resignation from the Board, Lord Kalms retained the rights attaching to share options unexercised at the date of his retirement subject to the conditions of grant and to shares awarded under the bonus arrangements following the disposal of Freeserve.
During the period, the gross value of shares released under the Freeserve bonus arrangements was 307,280.
He is no longer eligible to participate in discretionary share schemes or in any bonus arrangements.
b Chief Operating Officers As stated in last years Annual Report and Accounts, the post of Chief Operating Officer, previously held jointly by David Hamid and David Gilbert was abolished in May 2003.
David Hamids service agreement was terminated on 23 May 2003.
He received a payment of 419,069, reflecting the loss of salary and contractual entitlements applicable to the 12 months notice period under his service agreement dated 6 May 1997.
A payment of 94,039 was made by the Company to DRESS, representing the cost of providing pension benefits in respect of the notice period.
David Gilbert resigned from the Board on 1 September 2003, but remained an employee of the Company until his service agreement was terminated on 6 February 2004.
On that date he received a redundancy payment of 30,000.
An initial payment of 281,319 reflecting part of the loss of salary and contractual entitlements applicable to the 12 months notice period under his service agreement dated 6 May 1997 was made to DRESS to augment his pension benefits.
A payment of 90,174 was made by the Company to DRESS representing the cost of providing pension benefits in respect of the notice period.
A further payment of up to 157,107, representing the balance of his contractual entitlements was deferred for six months until 6 August 2004 and will not be payable in view of his earnings from alternative employment in that period.
His basic salary and taxable benefits during the period 2 September 2003 to 6 February 2004 amounted to 129,846 and 15,480 respectively.
The Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to release to David Hamid and David Gilbert shares held in their share banks under the DEPP and to allow them to retain their rights under the Freeserve bonus arrangements described above.
In addition, rights were retained to share options unexercised at the date of termination of their service agreements subject to the conditions of grant.
Following their resignations from the Board, the gross value of shares released to David Hamid and David Gilbert under the DEPP was 107,635 and 107,218, respectively and under the Freeserve bonus arrangements was 175,588 each.
c Deputy Chairman Mark Souhami, Deputy Chairman, resigned from the Board on 1 September 2003.
He remained employed by the Company under his contract of employment dated 25 November 1993 until 1 May 2004 first as Chairman of Codic until its disposal on 8 December 2003 and thereafter in a general advisory capacity.
His basic salary and taxable benefits during the period 2 September 2003 to 1 May 2004 amounted to 131,771 and 11,997, respectively.
During the period the gross value of shares released under the Freeserve bonus arrangements was 43,875.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-executive directors are appointed for fixed terms, normally of three years.
The terms of the non-executive directors in office at 1 May 2004 expire as follows: Date Sir John Collins 11 September 2005 Count Emmanuel dAndr 1 September 2005 Rita Clifton 1 September 2006 Andrew Lynch 20 May 2006 John Whybrow 24 June 2006 52 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 Sir John Collins fee is currently 257,500 per annum.
He is also provided with the use of a car and related benefits and is a member of the Dixons Group medical expenses plan.
The other non-executive directors receive a fee currently 30,000 per annum or euro equivalent which reflects the time which they are required to commit to their duties and amounts paid to non-executive directors in similar companies.
The fee is normally reviewed in September.
Andrew Lynch and John Whybrow receive a fee payable at the rate of 3,700 per annum as chairmen of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, respectively.
Until his resignation on 1 September 2003, Lord Blackwell provided additional advisory services for which he was paid a fee at the rate of 40,000 per annum.
Non-executive directors derive no other benefits from their office and are not eligible to participate in the Groups pension scheme.
It is Company policy not to grant share options to non-executive directors or to require part of their fees to be paid in the form of shares.
Since 20 May 2003, the remuneration of non-executive directors has been determined by the Board upon the recommendations of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director.
Prior to that date the Chairman and Deputy Chairman constituted a separate remuneration committee which recommended to the Board the fees payable to the non-executive directors.
The terms and conditions governing the appointment of the non-executive directors are available on application to the Company Secretary.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended Basic salary Cash Taxable 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 and fees bonus benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Current directors John Clare 609 34 643 808 Jeremy Darroch 390 24 414 392 David Longbottom 284 12 296 146 Former directors Lord Kalms 461 Mark Souhami 635 68 212 David Gilbert 95 11 106 414 David Hamid 173 20 414 1,458 89 1,547 2,847 Non-executive Current directors Sir John Collins 257 1 258 222 Count Emmanuel dAndr 34 34 35 Rita Clifton 20 20 Andrew Lynch 32 32 John Whybrow 29 29 Former directors Lord Blackwell 26 26 71 Karen Cook 11 11 30 409 1 410 358 1,867 90 1,957 3,205 Amounts shown for former directors relate to their period in office as directors.
Further amounts were paid to Lord Kalms in his capacity as President which are shown in section ix on page 51.
Details of amounts paid to other former directors who remained in employment after resigning as directors including amounts paid upon the termination of their employment are also shown in section ix.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 53 REMUNERATION REPORT continued No bonuses were payable in respect of the 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003.
Jeremy Darrochs salary included 71,133 representing contributions which would have been payable to DRESS had his pensionable salary not been subject to the statutory earnings cap.
2003 04 2002 03 2003 04 2002 03 Gross value Gross value Gains from Gains from of shares of shares exercise of exercise of released released share options share options 000 000 000 000 Current directors John Clare 514 424 194 Jeremy Darroch 77 33 David Longbottom 130 92 2 Former directors Mark Souhami 27 David Gilbert 184 David Hamid 178 721 938 2 194 The gross value of shares released comprises share releases under the DEPP and share releases under the bonus arrangements following the disposal of Freeserve, as described in section iii on page 50.
Share releases under the DEPP are made annually at the end of April.
Each director received the balance of the released shares following the sale of sufficient shares to meet their income tax and national insurance liabilities.
The gross value of shares released in respect of former directors relates to releases made whilst serving as directors of the Company.
Other releases made to former directors are shown in section ix.
DIRECTORS SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED INFORMATION Released in Restricted beneficial interests At 4 May 2003 the period At 1 May 2004 John Clare 439,449 342,562 96,887 Jeremy Darroch 83,242 51,277 31,965 David Longbottom 118,206 86,461 31,745 The directors restricted beneficial interests at 1 May 2004 comprise shares held in trust by Dixons TSR Trust Limited in their share banks under the DEPP described on pages 45 and 46.
At 4 May 2003 restricted beneficial interests comprised both shares held in their share banks under the DEPP and shares awarded under bonus arrangements put in place following the disposal of Freeserve described in section iii, above.
Share releases during the period were made on 13 February 2004 and 30 April 2004 at prices of 149.25 pence and 155.25 pence, respectively.
Shares vesting on 13 February 2004 related to the bonus arrangements following the disposal of Freeserve.
Shares vesting on 30 April 2004 related to releases made under the DEPP.
The vesting dates for shares held at 1 May 2004 occur in April 2005 and April 2006.
The number of shares vesting on each date is dependent on the number of further shares awarded.
Unrestricted beneficial and family interests 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 Executive directors John Clare 2,021,541 1,819,430 Jeremy Darroch 72,604 42,352 David Longbottom 131,142 62,706 Non-executive directors Sir John Collins 30,508 30,508 Count Emmanuel dAndr 1,096 1,046 Rita Clifton 2,500 Andrew Lynch 10,000 John Whybrow 5,000 Date of appointment, if later 54 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 There were no changes in directors restricted or unrestricted share interests between 1 May 2004 and 23 June 2004.
Each of the executive directors is technically interested in 1,316,813 ordinary shares 3 May 2003 3,691,355 ordinary shares held by Dixons TSR Trust Limited, the trustee of the employee share ownership trust.
DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS AUDITED INFORMATION Discretionary options are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in the six month period following the date of maturity of a three-year or five-year savings contract.
All options may be exercised earlier in certain circumstances.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 1 May 2004 was 155.25 pence.
The highest and lowest mid-market prices during the period were 164.25 pence and 107.75 pence respectively.
For the grants on 28 July 2003, exercise is conditional upon EPS growth over the period since the date of grant exceeding the RPI by at least 3 per cent per annum compound as described in section vi on page 50.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 55 REMUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTORS PENSIONS AUDITED INFORMATION Increase in accrued Accrued Accrued Gross increase pension during Transfer value Transfer value Change in pension pension in accrued the period, of accrued of accrued transfer values as at as at pension during net of benefits as at benefits as at less members 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 the period inflation 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 contributions 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 John Clare 321 294 27 18 4,539 3,536 966 Jeremy Darroch 12 9 3 3 102 52 44 David Longbottom 139 117 22 19 2,699 2,094 586 Accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement at age 60, based on eligible service to 1 May 2004.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Guidance Note GN 11 Retirement Benefit Schemes Transfer Values published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries and dated 6 April 2001.
The difference between the transfer values at the beginning and end of the period includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and the directors, such as stock market movements.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The graph set out below shows the Companys performance measured by total shareholder return on a holding of 100 in the Companys shares over the five years since 1 May 1999 measured against the same amount invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
120 100 80 60 40 20 0 1 May 29 April 28 April 27 April 3 May 1 May 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Source: Thomson Datastream Dixons FTSE 100 This index has been selected as the Company is a constituent of it and it is the comparator group selected by the Remuneration Committee for the purposes of the LTIP.
A more selective index of companies is not considered to provide a valid comparison.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 June 2004 and signed on its behalf by JOHN WHYBROW Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 56 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial statements for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, suitable accounting policies have been used and applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
Applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and sufficient internal controls to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud or any other irregularities.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DIXONS GROUP PLC We have audited the financial statements of Dixons Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 1 May 2004 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, the statement of total recognised gains and losses, the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 35.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of the directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law and accounting standards.
They are also responsible for the preparation of the other information contained in the annual report including the directors Remuneration Report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant UK legal and regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 57 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT continued We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Directors Report, the Chairman's Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Citizenship review, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Audit Committee Report, the Nominations Committee Report, the unaudited part of the directors Remuneration Report and the Five Year Record.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with UK auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys and the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
OPINION In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 1 May 2004 and of the profit of the Group for the 52 weeks then ended: and the financial statements and the part of the directors Remuneration Report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London 23 June 2004 58 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 52 weeks ended 1 May 2004 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003 restated Continuing operations Continuing operations Goodwill Goodwill amortisation amortisation and and Underlying exceptional Discontinued Underlying exceptional Discontinued results items operations Total results items operations Total Note million million million million million million million million Turnover 2,3 6,458.0 33.7 6,491.7 5,719.8 38.6 5,758.4 Group operating profit 4 317.8 48.2 2.2 271.8 276.1 17.6 15.0 273.5 Share of profit of associate 2.0 2.0 Total operating profit 2,3 317.8 48.2 2.2 271.8 278.1 17.6 15.0 275.5 Profit loss on sale of investment 4 79.6 79.6 5.1 5.1 Profit on disposal of business assets 4 3.2 3.2 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 317.8 34.6 2.2 354.6 278.1 22.7 15.0 270.4 Net interest 5 11.5 0.1 11.6 4.8 0.5 5.3 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 329.3 34.6 2.3 366.2 282.9 22.7 15.5 275.7 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 9 85.7 5.4 2.6 82.9 65.8 2.6 3.9 67.1 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 243.6 40.0 0.3 283.3 217.1 20.1 11.6 208.6 Equity minority interests 2.9 2.9 1.6 1.2 2.8 Profit for the period 240.7 40.0 0.3 280.4 215.5 20.1 10.4 205.8 Equity dividends 10 142.6 142.6 129.2 129.2 Retained profit for the period 24 98.1 40.0 0.3 137.8 86.3 20.1 10.4 76.6 Earnings per share pence 11 Adjusted diluted before discontinued operations, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 12.3p 11.1p Basic 14.4p 10.6p Diluted 14.3p 10.6p STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 restated million million Profit for the period 280.4 205.8 Currency translation adjustments 48.8 43.8 Unrealised loss on change from associated undertaking to subsidiary 8.7 Total gains and losses recognised in the period 231.6 240.9 Prior period adjustment Application Note G note 1.2 357.5 Prior period adjustment UITF 38 note 1.2 4.5 Total recognised gains and losses since the last annual report 121.4 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 59 BALANCE SHEETS Group Company 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 restated restated Note million million million million Fixed assets Intangible assets 12 937.1 997.6 Tangible assets 13 583.9 621.3 0.7 0.2 Investments 14 48.9 318.7 1,235.9 1,488.5 1,569.9 1,937.6 1,236.6 1,488.7 Current assets Stocks 15 793.0 779.7 Debtors falling due within one year 16 427.2 473.9 1,018.8 1,059.1 falling due after more than one year 16 79.3 100.9 Short-term investments 17 765.1 713.9 Cash at bank and in hand 239.3 152.0 71.4 31.7 2,303.9 2,220.4 1,090.2 1,090.8 Creditors falling due within one year Borrowings 18 61.5 151.3 23.9 Other creditors 18 1,504.3 1,527.7 1,201.4 1,338.9 1,565.8 1,679.0 1,201.4 1,362.8 Net current assets liabilities 738.1 541.4 111.2 272.0 Total assets less current liabilities 2,308.0 2,479.0 1,125.4 1,216.7 Creditors falling due after more than one year Borrowings 19 298.1 544.5 297.9 297.7 Other creditors 19 505.6 540.2 803.7 1,084.7 297.9 297.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 22 36.6 17.8 1.8 4.1 1,467.7 1,376.5 825.7 914.9 Capital and reserves 24 Called up share capital 48.7 48.7 48.7 48.7 Share premium account 140.5 137.9 140.5 137.9 Investment in own shares 1.5 1.8 1.5 1.8 Capital reserve 158.0 Merger reserve 386.1 386.1 Capital redemption reserve 425.5 425.5 425.5 425.5 Profit and loss account 1,200.9 954.9 212.5 304.6 Equity shareholders funds 1,428.0 1,337.1 825.7 914.9 Equity minority interests 39.7 39.4 1,467.7 1,376.5 825.7 914.9 The financial statements were approved by the directors on 23 June 2004 and signed on their behalf by: JOHN CLARE JEREMY DARROCH Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director 60 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 Note million million Net cash inflow from operating activities 26 328.2 340.4 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received 40.8 35.8 Interest paid 31.7 25.8 9.1 10.0 Taxation paid 52.9 71.3 Capital expenditure and financial investment Purchase of tangible assets 146.2 230.6 Sale of tangible assets 69.6 99.2 Sale of fixed asset investments net 216.2 122.3 139.6 9.1 Acquisitions and disposals Consideration for acquisitions 5.2 236.6 Net cash acquired with subsidiaries 33.0 Consideration for sale partial sale of subsidiaries 23.3 1.4 Net cash disposed of with subsidiaries 3.8 14.3 202.2 Equity dividends paid 132.3 119.9 Net cash inflow outflow before management of liquid resources and financing 306.0 52.1 Management of liquid resources Increase decrease in short-term investments 26 57.2 101.9 Financing Issue of ordinary share capital 24 1.9 1.6 Decrease in debt due within one year 26 123.8 201.1 Decrease increase in debt due after more than one year 26 32.9 251.8 154.8 52.3 Increase in cash in the period 26 94.0 102.1 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds 26 Increase in cash in the period 94.0 102.1 Cash outflow inflow from increase decrease in short-term investments 57.2 101.9 Cash outflow inflow from decrease increase in debt 156.7 50.7 Increase decrease in net funds resulting from cash flows 307.9 50.5 Debt arising from or issued for acquisitions 78.6 Debt and short-term investments disposed of with subsidiary 32.9 Other non-cash movements 127.2 Currency translation adjustments 6.7 56.5 Movement in net funds in the period 474.7 185.6 Opening net funds 170.1 355.7 Closing net funds 644.8 170.1 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 61 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK law and applicable accounting standards.
The principal accounting policies are set out below: 1.1 ACCOUNTING CONVENTION AND BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all of its subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
The results of subsidiaries acquired are included from the date on which control passes.
The net assets of subsidiaries acquired are recorded at their fair values, reflecting their condition at that date.
The results of subsidiaries disposed of are included up to the effective date of disposal.
Associated undertakings are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Accounting policies have been consistently applied throughout the current and preceding periods with the exception of the changes caused by the implementation of Amendment to FRS 5 Reporting the substance of transactions: Revenue recognition Application Note G and the adoption of Urgent Issues Task Force Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts UITF 38 which are further discussed below.
1.2 CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY AND PRESENTATION OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION Application Note G requires the seller to recognise as revenue the fair value of the sellers right to consideration through performance of its contractual obligations.
Accordingly, turnover in respect of extended warranties and service contracts is recognised over the life of the agreement on performance of the contractual obligations to the customer.
Related costs are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Revenues earned from extended warranties and service contracts were previously included in turnover in the period in which they were sold with full provision for liabilities for repair costs which the Group had assumed under these contracts.
This change has been accounted for as a prior period adjustment and previously reported figures have been restated accordingly.
The financial effects on the profit and loss account and balance sheet are set out in note 33.
UITF 38 supersedes UITF 13 and amends UITF 17 and requires own shares held through an employee share ownership plan trust to be deducted in arriving at shareholders funds and amends the requirements of UITF 17 concerning the recognition of the cost of awards of shares to employees.
The financial effects are set out in note 33.
1.3 TURNOVER Turnover comprises sales of goods and services excluding sales taxes.
Revenue for goods is recognised at the point of sale or, where later, upon delivery to the customer.
Revenue earned from extended warranty and service contracts is recognised as turnover over the life of the agreement when the Group obtains the right to consideration by performance of its contractual obligations under the extended warranty and service contract.
1.4 OPERATING LEASES Rentals payable under property leases are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments up to each market rent review date throughout the lease term.
Rentals payable under leases for plant and machinery are charged to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the total lease term.
1.5 TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange during the period.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences resulting from the translation of the results and balance sheets of overseas subsidiary undertakings and related foreign currency borrowings are charged or credited to reserves.
Other exchange differences arising from foreign currency transactions are included in profit on ordinary activities before taxation.
62 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.6 GOODWILL On acquisition of a subsidiary or associated undertaking, the fair value of the consideration is allocated between the identifiable net tangible and intangible assets liabilities on a fair value basis, with any excess consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill in respect of subsidiaries is included within intangible fixed assets.
Goodwill relating to associated undertakings is included within the carrying value of the associated undertaking.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised as an asset on the balance sheet.
Where goodwill is regarded as having a limited useful economic life, it is amortised on a systematic basis over its estimated life up to a maximum of 20 years.
Impairment reviews of goodwill are carried out at the end of the first full financial year of ownership and at other times if there are indications that the carrying amount may not be supportable.
Where goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite life it is not amortised.
As permitted by FRS 10 Goodwill and intangible assets, this represents a departure, for the purposes of giving a true and fair view, from the requirements of paragraph 21, Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985, which requires goodwill to be amortised.
The estimated useful economic life is regarded as indefinite where goodwill is capable of continued measurement and the durability of the acquired business can be demonstrated.
Where goodwill is not amortised, an annual impairment review is performed and any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account.
In estimating the useful economic life of goodwill, account is taken of the nature of the business acquired, the stability of the industry in which it operates, the extent of continuing barriers to market entry and the expected future impact of competition.
On a change from an investment in associated undertaking to a subsidiary, goodwill is calculated in accordance with FRS 2 Accounting for subsidiary undertakings.
This represents a departure, for the purposes of showing a true and fair view, from the requirements of paragraph 9, Schedule 4A to the Companies Act 1985.
Under the Companies Act 1985, goodwill on acquisition of a subsidiary is determined as a one stage calculation by considering the difference between the fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities and the aggregate consideration payable by the date that control passes and the entity is consolidated into the Groups balance sheet.
Under FRS 2, separate calculations of goodwill are made at each stage of acquisition.
As permitted by FRS 10, goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 2 May 1999 remains eliminated against reserves.
This goodwill will be charged in the profit and loss account as appropriate on the subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
1.7 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and, where appropriate, provision for impairment or estimated loss on disposal.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful lives.
The rates used are: Short leasehold property over the term of the lease 2 1 Freehold and long leasehold buildings between 1 % and 2 % per annum 3 2 1 Fixtures, fittings and equipment between 10% and 33 % per annum 3 No depreciation is provided on freehold and long leasehold land or on assets in the course of construction.
1.8 INVESTMENTS Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost, less any provision for impairment in value.
In the consolidated financial statements, shares in associated undertakings are accounted for using the net equity method.
The consolidated profit and loss account includes the Groups share of the operating profits, net interest and attributable taxation of the associated undertaking.
In the consolidated balance sheet, the investment in associated undertakings is shown as the Groups share of the net assets of the associated undertakings.
Short-term investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value with the exception of assets held to maturity, which are stated at cost net of amortised premium or discount.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 63 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 1.9 STOCKS Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of properties held for development includes the net development outgoings attributable to such properties and interest incurred during development on those projects where it is expected, on commencement, that the period will exceed one year.
1.10 DEFERRED TAXATION Deferred tax is provided for in full on all timing differences which have not reversed at the balance sheet date.
No provision is made for tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits of overseas subsidiaries or associated undertakings, unless the distribution of such earnings has been accrued in the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are regarded as more likely than not to be recoverable.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
1.11 POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group has adopted the transitional arrangements of FRS 17 Retirement benefits, which permits the costs, accruals and prepayments to be reported under the requirements of SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs.
The additional disclosures required by FRS 17 are detailed in note 27.
The expected cost of providing pensions for funded defined benefit pension schemes is calculated periodically by qualified actuaries and is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level percentage of current and expected future pensionable payroll.
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes and contributions made to state pension schemes for certain overseas employees are charged to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis as contributions become payable.
1.12 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS DERIVATIVES Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate derivatives are recognised as adjustments to interest over the period of the contract.
Foreign currency borrowings, investments and foreign exchange gains or losses on derivatives held to hedge net assets are carried in the balance sheet at the rates at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses in respect of hedging of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings and investments denominated in foreign currencies are taken to reserves.
Gains or losses in respect of hedging of future transactions are deferred and recognised as appropriate when the hedged transaction occurs.
2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS A TURNOVER AND OPERATING PROFIT 52 weeks ended 1 May 2004 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003 restated Operating Operating Turnover profit Turnover profit million million million million Continuing operations: UK Retail 4,697.9 254.2 4,524.5 238.0 International Retail Base 1,760.1 63.6 1,195.3 38.1 Associated undertakings 2.0 Underlying results 6,458.0 317.8 5,719.8 278.1 Discontinued operations: European Property 33.7 2.2 38.6 15.0 6,491.7 320.0 5,758.4 293.1 Goodwill amortisation 4.2 4.0 Exceptional items 44.0 13.6 6,491.7 271.8 5,758.4 275.5 64 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 2 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS continued Underlying operating profit is stated after recognising net property profits of 7.0 million 2002 03 9.8 million arising in the UK Retail division and 1.0 million 2002 03 nil arising in the International Retail division which is shown as other operating income in note 3.
B NET ASSETS 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 restated million million Continuing operations: UK Retail 163.1 118.8 International Retail 1,077.7 1,156.8 914.6 1,038.0 Discontinued operations: European Property 47.1 Net operating assets 914.6 1,085.1 Net non-operating liabilities assets 91.7 121.3 Net funds borrowings : Continuing operations 644.8 178.3 Discontinued operations 8.2 644.8 170.1 Total net assets 1,467.7 1,376.5 The International Retail division operates in the Nordic region, Italy, Spain, Ireland, France, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Greece.
Codic International S. A. which comprised the majority of the European Property division, operating in Belgium, Luxembourg and France, was sold on 8 December 2003.
As a result, these operations have been classified as discontinued.
Management responsibility for the small residual property operations in Germany which are to be discontinued, remain within the Group and the results have been integrated into the International Retail division.
Comparative figures have been restated to reflect this change in responsibility.
There were no material exports from the locations in which the Group operates.
On 11 November 2002, the Group acquired a further 71.4 per cent of UniEuro S. p. A. UniEuro together with economic control of the remaining 4.3 per cent of the issued share capital owned by management.
UniEuro was included as a subsidiary from that date.
Legal title to the remaining 4.3 per cent was acquired on 3 June 2003.
Net non-operating liabilities assets predominantly comprise dividends payable, deferred consideration and the Group's investment in France Telecom S. A.
2002 03 the Groups investment in Wanadoo S. A. dividends payable and deferred consideration.
Net funds include amounts held under trust to fund extended warranty and service contract liabilities.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 65 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 3 OPERATING PROFIT 52 weeks ended 1 May 2004 53 weeks ended 3 May 2003 restated Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total million million million million million million Turnover 6,458.0 33.7 6,491.7 5,719.8 38.6 5,758.4 Cost of sales: Underlying 5,777.0 29.1 5,806.1 5,108.6 17.9 5,126.5 Exceptional 44.0 44.0 3.3 3.3 5,821.0 29.1 5,850.1 5,111.9 17.9 5,129.8 Gross profit 637.0 4.6 641.6 607.9 20.7 628.6 Distribution costs 150.0 150.0 132.2 132.2 Administrative expenses: Underlying 221.2 2.4 223.6 212.7 5.7 218.4 Goodwill amortisation 4.2 4.2 4.0 4.0 Exceptional 10.3 10.3 225.4 2.4 227.8 227.0 5.7 232.7 Other operating income 8.0 8.0 9.8 9.8 Share of operating profit of associated undertaking 2.0 2.0 269.6 2.2 271.8 260.5 15.0 275.5 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 million million Operating profit is stated after charging: Goodwill amortisation 4.2 4.0 Depreciation 119.5 118.2 Exceptional impairment 7.8 2.9 Rentals paid under operating leases plant and machinery 4.9 4.9 other 293.4 259.4 Auditors remuneration: Audit services 0.8 0.7 Audit related regulatory reporting 0.1 0.1 Further assurance services 0.1 0.1 Tax services: compliance 0.2 0.2 Tax services: advisory 1.3 0.6 Other services 0.1 Total fees paid to the auditors 2.5 1.8 Less amounts not included in operating profit 0.3 Amounts charged to operating profit 2.5 1.5 Included in auditors remuneration not charged to operating profit are amounts of nil 2002 03 0.3 million relating predominantly to acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings where the amounts have been included as part of the cost of these acquisitions.
Amounts relating to non-audit services include work initiated over a number of years with specialist individuals previously employed by Arthur Andersen who have become employees of Deloitte & Touche LLP following the combination of the two firms.
66 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 4 GOODWILL AMORTISATION AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 million million Operating items: Goodwill amortisation 4.2 4.0 Restructuring charge i 44.0 13.6 48.2 17.6 Non-operating items: Profit loss on sale of investment ii 79.6 5.1 Profit on sale of business assets iii 3.2 82.8 5.1 i Restructuring charge: 2003 04 relates to the closure of 106 Dixons stores.
Costs relate predominantly to surplus leasehold property obligations, fixed asset impairment, stock write off and write down and employee severance.
2002 03 relates to a reorganisation of the Groups operations in order to realign the Groups cost base and protect future profitability.
Costs included employee severance, predominantly in administrative and service functions, surplus leasehold property obligations and fixed asset impairment.
ii Profit loss on sale of investment: 2003 04 relates to profit of 163.1 million 44.0 million arising on the sale of 48.4 million shares in Wanadoo S. A. on 24 November 2003.
Further profits of 153.9 million 35.6 million arose from the exchanges into shares in Wanadoo S. A. by bondholders of the 1% Exchangeable Bonds 2004 further details of which are provided in note 18.
2002 03 loss relates to the sale of 40.4 million shares in Wanadoo S. A.. iii Profit on sale of business assets relates to the sale of intangible assets held at nil book value within a division of DSG Retail Limited, a subsidiary undertaking.
5 NET INTEREST 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 million million Interest receivable and similar income 45.1 39.1 Interest payable: Bank loans and overdrafts 5.6 17.3 Other loans 28.4 17.4 34.0 34.7 Interest capitalised 0.5 0.9 11.6 5.3 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 67 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 6 EMPLOYEES 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 million million Staff costs for the period were: Wages and salaries 599.7 555.3 Social security costs 70.4 53.6 Other pension costs 19.1 18.7 689.2 627.6 Employees Employees The average number of employees, including part time employees, was: Continuing operations: UK Retail 30,443 29,654 International Retail 8,152 5,692 Discontinued operations: European Property 16 36 38,611 35,382 7 DIRECTORS Details of directors remuneration, share interests, share options, pensions and other entitlements, which form part of these financial statements, are shown in the audited sections of the directors Remuneration Report.
8 EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP TRUSTS Dixons TSR Trust Limited is the trustee of a number of employee share ownership trusts the Trusts.
At 1 May 2004, the Trusts held shares in the Company which may subsequently be awarded to specified executive directors and senior employees under the Deferred Equity Participation Plan DEPP and the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Prior to this date, the Trusts also held shares in the Company to satisfy bonus arrangements entered into following the disposal of Freeserve.
Details of the DEPP, LTIP and bonus arrangements are given in the Remuneration Report in sections ii and iii, respectively.
The Companys aim is to hedge its liability under the DEPP and LTIP by buying shares through the Trusts to meet the anticipated future liability.
The anticipated liability is regularly reassessed during the period and additional shares are purchased when required to meet an increase in this liability.
The cost of funding and administering the Trusts is charged to the profit and loss account in the period to which it relates.
Reserves are reduced by the amount of shares held in the Trusts which have not vested unconditionally.
Of these shares, 1,069,683 have been provisionally awarded to participants in the DEPP and LTIP 3 May 2003 1,421,129 shares had been provisionally awarded to participants in the DEPP, the LTIP and the bonus arrangements.
During the year, 2,484,203 shares in the Company were released to employees under the terms of the DEPP, LTIP and bonus arrangements referred to above.
Dixons TSR Trust Limited has waived all dividends except for a total payment of 1 penny at the time each dividend is paid.
The mid-market price of a share on 1 May 2004 was 155.25 pence.
68 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 9 TAXATION ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 restated million million Current taxation: UK corporation tax at 30% 68.7 53.0 Overseas taxation the Company and its subsidiaries 15.6 11.3 associated undertakings 0.6 Credit in respect of goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 5.4 Adjustment in respect of earlier periods: Corporation tax 2.2 1.5 Overseas taxation 0.4 81.1 63.8 Deferred taxation: Current period 3.9 5.5 Credit in respect of exceptional items 2.6 Adjustment in respect of earlier periods 2.1 0.4 1.8 3.3 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 82.9 67.1 A reconciliation of the notional current tax charge to the actual current tax charge is set out below: Profit on ordinary activities at UK statutory rate of 30% 109.9 82.7 Capital allowances for the period in excess of depreciation 0.5 0.9 Other timing differences 3.4 2.0 Differences in effective overseas taxation rates 10.9 15.7 Non-taxable exceptional gain loss 23.9 1.5 Non-deductible exceptional operating charges 7.8 2.7 Other 0.1 3.4 Adjustment in respect of earlier periods 2.2 1.1 Current taxation on profit on ordinary activities 81.1 63.8 The effective tax rate is expected to rise in future periods due to increases in effective overseas tax rates.
10 DIVIDENDS 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 Per share million Per share million On ordinary shares of 2.5p each Interim 1.660p 32.3 1.510p 29.2 Proposed final 5.660p 110.3 5.145p 100.0 Ordinary dividends paid and proposed 7.320p 142.6 6.655p 129.2 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 69 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 11 EARNINGS PER SHARE 52 weeks ended 53 weeks ended 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 restated million million Basic earnings 280.4 205.8 Diluted earnings 280.4 205.8 Discontinued operations 0.3 10.4 Goodwill amortisation 4.2 4.0 Exceptional items, net of taxation 44.2 16.1 Adjusted diluted earnings 240.7 215.5 million million Basic weighted average number of shares 1,945.0 1,940.3 Employee share option and ownership schemes 14.7 9.5 Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,959.7 1,949.8 pence pence Basic earnings per share 14.4 10.6 Diluted earnings per share 14.3 10.6 Discontinued operations 0.5 Goodwill amortisation 0.2 0.2 Exceptional items, net of taxation 2.2 0.8 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 12.3 11.1 Adjusted earnings per share are calculated using underlying earnings and are shown in order to disclose the impact of discontinued operations, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
12 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Group Goodwill million Cost At 4 May 2003 1,003.9 Acquisitions 3.4 Currency retranslation 59.7 At 1 May 2004 947.6 Amortisation At 4 May 2003 6.3 Charge for the period 4.2 Currency retranslation At 1 May 2004 10.5 Net book value At 1 May 2004 937.1 At 3 May 2003 997.6 70 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 12 INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS continued Goodwill in respect of Elkjp is regarded as having an indefinite economic life.
Elkjp is expected to continue to maintain its market share and profitability over the long term and it is not therefore possible to identify a finite useful economic life for the goodwill of 478.9 million arising on its acquisition.
It is considered that the barriers to entry which exist in Elkjps markets, which are anticipated to continue, will prove this goodwill to be durable.
UniEuro became a subsidiary undertaking in 2002 03 having previously been an associated undertaking.
Goodwill attributable to UniEuro of 419.8 million has been calculated in accordance with FRS 2, which represents a departure for the purposes of showing a true and fair view, as described in note 1.6.
Had the value of UniEuros goodwill been calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, goodwill of 428.6 million would be recorded rather than 419.8 million.
The goodwill is regarded as having an indefinite economic life owing to UniEuros market leading profitability and the expectation that this will continue in the long term.
The application by the directors of an annual impairment test supports the value of both the Elkjp and UniEuro goodwill and, as a result, no charge for impairment is required at the balance sheet date.
Because of the indefinite lives attributed to both Elkjp and UniEuro goodwill, there is no amortisation charge in the profit and loss account in respect of these acquisitions.
The adoption of indefinite lives represents a permissible departure from the Companies Act 1985 for the purposes of showing a true and fair view.
It has not been possible to quantify the effect of this departure from the Companies Act 1985 because no finite life for the goodwill can be identified.
Goodwill arising on other acquisitions is amortised over periods not exceeding 20 years.
13 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Group Company Fixtures, Fixtures, Land and fittings and fittings and buildings equipment Total equipment million million million million Cost At 4 May 2003 169.1 1,133.6 1,302.7 2.9 Additions 24.6 110.6 135.2 0.6 Disposals 33.4 48.8 82.2 Currency retranslation 1.7 7.4 9.1 At 1 May 2004 158.6 1,188.0 1,346.6 3.5 Depreciation At 4 May 2003 12.2 669.2 681.4 2.7 Charge for the period 5.0 114.5 119.5 0.1 Disposals 1.6 41.4 43.0 Exceptional impairment 7.8 7.8 Currency retranslation 0.1 2.9 3.0 At 1 May 2004 15.5 747.2 762.7 2.8 Net book value At 1 May 2004 143.1 440.8 583.9 0.7 At 3 May 2003 156.9 464.4 621.3 0.2 Long Short Freehold leasehold leasehold Total million million million million Land and buildings at cost to the Group At 1 May 2004 120.8 2.6 35.2 158.6 At 3 May 2003 129.4 2.8 36.9 169.1 Land and buildings include 28.4 million of land not depreciated 3 May 2003 26.6 million.
Land and buildings and fixtures, fittings and equipment include 2.6 million and 41.4 million, respectively of assets in the course of construction 3 May 2003 30.0 million and 36.0 million, respectively.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 71 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 14 FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS Group million At 4 May 2003 restated 318.7 Additions 0.5 Disposals 259.7 Currency retranslation 10.6 At 1 May 2004 48.9 Company Subsidiary undertakings Investments Total million million million Cost and net book value At 4 May 2003 restated 1,203.0 285.5 1,488.5 Disposals 254.2 254.2 Currency retranslation 1.6 1.6 At 1 May 2004 1,203.0 32.9 1,235.9 Disposals relate predominantly to the disposal of shares in Wanadoo S. A. on which exceptional gains were made as described in note 4.
Principal subsidiary undertakings are shown in note 34.
Investments held by the Group include the following listed investments: Market value at Relevant Net book value 1 May 2004 exchange million million France Telecom S. A. Paris 32.9 51.4 P. Kotsovolos S. A. Athens 13.4 9.8 46.3 61.2 The shares in France Telecom S. A. are held to cover potential share obligations under the 1% Exchangeable Bonds 2004 further details of which are provided in note 18.
15 STOCKS Group 2004 2003 million million Finished goods and goods for resale 777.1 699.9 Properties held for development or resale 15.9 79.8 793.0 779.7 Properties held for development or resale include interest of 0.6 1.8 72 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 16 DEBTORS Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 restated million million million million Falling due within one year Trade debtors 217.3 224.2 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings 997.8 1,028.2 Corporation tax recoverable 15.3 3.3 Overseas taxation recoverable 0.7 1.9 Deferred taxation asset 32.4 35.8 0.4 0.5 Other debtors 48.4 102.5 16.0 25.0 Prepayments and accrued income 113.1 106.2 4.6 5.4 427.2 473.9 1,018.8 1,059.1 Falling due after more than one year Deferred taxation asset 43.7 43.5 Other debtors 2.1 2.2 Prepayments and accrued income 33.5 55.2 79.3 100.9 506.5 574.8 1,018.8 1,059.1 Further details of deferred taxation assets are shown in note 23.
17 SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS Group 2004 2003 million million Listed 298.2 317.1 Unlisted 466.9 396.8 765.1 713.9 Listed investments mainly comprise floating rate notes.
Unlisted investments mainly comprise money market deposits and commercial paper.
Short-term investments include amounts which together with certain cash balances are held under trust to fund extended warranty and service contract liabilities as disclosed in note 20.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 73 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 18 CREDITORS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 restated million million million million Borrowings 1% Exchangeable Bonds 2004 45.5 3 7 4% Guaranteed Bonds 2004 99.9 Bank overdrafts 4.1 8.3 23.9 Other borrowings 11.9 43.1 61.5 151.3 23.9 Other creditors Trade creditors 527.4 523.4 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings 1,076.8 1,184.5 Corporation tax 97.2 59.2 4.7 Overseas taxation 12.3 16.4 Other taxation and social security payable 36.9 48.6 0.3 Other creditors 136.9 166.7 49.5 Accruals and deferred income from extended warranty and service contracts 330.7 341.0 Accruals and deferred income other 252.3 272.1 13.9 Dividends payable 110.6 100.3 110.4 100.2 1,504.3 1,527.7 1,201.4 1,338.9 1,565.8 1,679.0 1,201.4 1,362.8 Borrowings include 11.9 million 3 May 2003 19.1 million secured by legal charges over properties.
Trade creditors include 9.4 million 3 May 2003 6.8 million secured over the net assets of a subsidiary undertaking.
The 1% Exchangeable Bonds 2004, which are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, are euro denominated and are exchangeable into ordinary shares in France Telecom S. A. at the option of the bondholder, at the level of approximately 56 shares for each 11,000 principal amount of the bonds at a price of 117.85 per share up to 24 June 2004.
Until 28 April 2004, the Bonds were exchangeable into ordinary shares in Wanadoo S. A.
On this date, France Telecom S. A. completed its acquisition of Wanadoo S. A. and accordingly the bonds became exchangeable into shares in France Telecom S. A. with all other terms remaining unchanged.
During 2003 04, bonds with a principal value of 1192.6 million were exchanged.
Unless previously redeemed, exchanged or purchased and cancelled, the remainder of the Bonds will be redeemed on 5 July 2004.
3 The 7 % Guaranteed Bonds 2004 were redeemed at par on 16 February 2004.
4 74 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 19 CREDITORS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR Group Company 2004 2003 2004 2003 restated million million million million Borrowings 1% Exchangeable Bonds 2004 180.5 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 297.9 297.7 297.9 297.7 Loans repayable: In more than one year but not more than two years 0.2 26.0 In more than two years but not more than five years 39.6 In more than five years 0.7 298.1 544.5 297.9 297.7 Other creditors Other creditors 73.1 103.0 Deferred income from extended warranty and service contracts 432.5 437.2 505.6 540.2 803.7 1,084.7 297.9 297.7 Borrowings include nil 3 May 2003 9.7 million secured by legal charges over properties.
The sterling denominated 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012, which are unsecured, are guaranteed by DSG Retail Limited, a subsidiary undertaking, and are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Unless previously redeemed or purchased and cancelled they will be redeemed at par on 15 November 2012.
Further details are included in note 20.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 75 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS A statement of the Groups objectives, policies and strategies with regard to financial instruments is contained in the Operating and Financial Review under the section entitled Treasury policy.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from these disclosures as permitted by FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments: disclosures.
Additional information on fixed asset investments is included in note 14.
A INTEREST RATE AND CURRENCY PROFILE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES After taking into account the various interest rate and currency swaps entered into by the Group, the currency and interest rate exposures of its financial assets and liabilities were: 2004 Norwegian Other Sterling Kroner Euro currencies Total million million million million million Cash and short-term investments: Floating rate 924.6 17.3 43.0 14.9 998.8 Fixed rate 0.9 3.7 4.6 925.5 17.3 46.7 14.9 1,004.4 Borrowings: Floating rate 50.0 242.4 292.4 Fixed rate 67.2 67.2 50.0 309.6 359.6 Net funds debt at period end 875.5 17.3 262.9 14.9 644.8 Fixed asset investments 1.8 0.8 46.3 48.9 Other creditors falling due after more than one year 23.3 23.3 2003 Norwegian Other Total Sterling Kroner Euro currencies restated million million million million million Cash and short-term investments: Floating rate 744.9 7.6 81.6 23.0 857.1 Fixed rate 0.9 7.9 8.8 745.8 7.6 89.5 23.0 865.9 Borrowings: Floating rate 58.0 320.3 2.9 381.2 Fixed rate 128.2 186.4 314.6 186.2 506.7 2.9 695.8 Net funds debt at period end 559.6 7.6 417.2 20.1 170.1 Fixed asset investments 1.3 3.2 314.2 318.7 Other creditors falling due after more than one year 58.1 58.1 All short-term foreign currency investments are money market deposits with maturities of less than three months.
Fixed asset investments and other creditors falling due after more than one year are non-interest bearing.
Net funds, excluding amounts held under trust to fund extended warranty and service contract liabilities, totalled 342.2 million 3 May 2003 net borrowings 138.0 million.
76 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The principal sterling interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of the Groups net cash and investments, and interest based credit commission.
Each is based on floating interest rates and the two elements provide a natural hedge against each other.
Sterling cash and investments include 302.6 million 3 May 2003 308.1 million held under trust to fund extended warranty and service contract liabilities.
Floating rate assets consist of money market deposits and floating rate notes bearing rates fixed in advance for periods ranging from overnight to one year.
The average period until the next refixing is 36 days 2002 03 30 days.
Floating rate sterling borrowings comprise 50 million of the 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 that have been swapped so as to bear interest at rates based on LIBOR.
The remaining 250 million of these bonds have been swapped into floating rate euro borrowings.
After taking account of interest rate swaps entered into by the Group, no sterling borrowings carry interest at a fixed rate 2002 03 the weighted average period for which the rate was fixed was 0.7 years.
Floating rate euro borrowings represent 250 million of the 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 swapped to EURIBOR and bank borrowings to provide a hedge against euro denominated fixed asset investments and to finance working capital.
Fixed rate euro borrowings comprise the 1% Exchangeable Bonds 2004 which also provide a hedge against euro denominated fixed asset investments.
Amounts in respect of other currencies relate to funds held within Electro World and the Elkjp group.
After taking account of interest rate swaps entered into by the Group, the weighted average period for which the rate was fixed for euro denominated borrowings was 0.2 years 2002 03 1.2 years.
B FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 2004 2004 2003 2003 restated restated million million million million Fixed asset investments 48.9 63.9 318.7 369.0 Cash and investments: Cash at bank and in hand 239.3 239.3 152.0 152.0 Short-term investments 765.1 765.9 713.9 713.7 1,004.4 1,005.2 865.9 865.7 Borrowings due: In one year or less or on demand 61.5 67.7 151.3 155.7 In more than one year but not more than two years 0.2 0.2 206.5 226.9 In more than two years but not more than five years 39.6 39.6 In more than five years 297.9 300.9 298.4 309.0 359.6 368.8 695.8 731.2 Other creditors falling due after more than one year 16.7 16.7 58.1 58.1 Derivatives held to: Manage the interest rate profile 1.7 0.2 Manage currency exposure 3.2 18.7 1.0 16.0 Hedge net assets 2.3 2.5 Hedge future transactions expected to occur within one year 4.6 0.5 expected to occur after more than one year Most assets and liabilities are held at floating rates and therefore the fair value is close to the book value with the exception of the Groups bonds where a premium exists to the book value due to the coupon rate and exchange rights for the Guaranteed Bonds and the Exchangeable Bonds, respectively.
Fair values are derived from market values.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 77 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 20 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued C GAINS AND LOSSES ON INSTRUMENTS USED FOR HEDGING The Group manages exposures that arise on purchases and sales denominated in foreign currencies by entering predominantly into forward foreign exchange currency contracts.
It also uses swaps, forward exchange contracts and options to manage its interest rate and foreign exchange translation exposures.
Unrecognised net gains and losses on hedging instruments are as follows: Gains Losses Net total million million million On hedges at 4 May 2003 1.1 17.8 16.7 Arising in previous periods recognised in 2003 04 profit and loss account 0.5 2.4 1.9 Arising in previous periods not recognised in 2003 04 profit and loss account 0.6 15.4 14.8 Arising in 2003 04 not recognised in 2003 04 4.6 8.1 3.5 On hedges at 1 May 2004 5.2 23.5 18.3 Of which: Expected to be recognised within one year 5.2 4.5 0.7 Expected to be recognised after more than one year 19.0 19.0 D CURRENCY RISK The Groups policy is to hedge all significant transaction exposures on monetary assets and liabilities and consequently there are no material currency exposures that would give rise to gains and losses in the profit and loss account in the functional currencies of the operating businesses.
21 BORROWING FACILITIES Group 2004 2003 million million The Group had available the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities at the period end: Expiry date: Within one year 29.6 29.2 In more than one year, but not more than two years 309.8 In more than two years 400.0 429.6 339.0 78 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 22 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Restructuring costs Other Total million million million Group At 4 May 2003 as restated 13.7 4.1 17.8 Charge in the period 29.4 29.4 Utilised 8.3 2.0 10.3 Reclassification 0.3 0.3 At 1 May 2004 34.8 1.8 36.6 Company At 4 May 2003 4.1 4.1 Utilised 2.0 2.0 Reclassification 0.3 0.3 At 1 May 2004 1.8 1.8 The amount provided in the period for restructuring relates to the closure of 106 Dixons stores which is further described in note 4 and which is expected to be utilised primarily within one year but not more than five years.
23 DEFERRED TAXATION Group Company million million Deferred taxation asset liability At 4 May 2003 as previously reported 74.0 0.5 Prior period adjustment 153.3 At 4 May 2003 as restated 79.3 0.5 Charge in the period 1.8 0.1 Utilised 9.3 Reclassification 7.5 Exchange translation adjustments 0.4 At 1 May 2004 76.1 0.4 Group 2004 2003 as restated million million Analysis of deferred taxation asset: Accelerated capital allowances 20.1 23.1 Other timing differences 96.2 102.4 76.1 79.3 Deferred taxation assets are included within debtors in note 16.
As a result of share disposals, allowable losses have been incurred which are available for offset against certain future chargeable gains.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of these losses as it is considered that there is insufficient evidence that chargeable gains will arise.
The deferred tax asset not recognised, measured at the standard rate of 30 per cent, is not less than 700 million.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and associated undertakings.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on these earnings in the foreseeable future.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 79 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 24 SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS AND SHARE CAPITAL A SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS Group Share Investment Capital Profit Share premium Capital in own Merger redemption and loss capital account reserve shares reserve reserve account Total million million million million million million million million At 4 May 2003 as previously reported 48.7 137.9 158.0 386.1 425.5 1,312.4 1,696.4 Prior period adjustments: Application Note G 357.5 357.5 UITF 38 1.8 1.8 At 4 May 2003 as restated 48.7 137.9 158.0 1.8 386.1 425.5 954.9 1,337.1 Retained profit 137.8137.8 Vesting of own shares 0.3 0.3 Currency retranslation 48.8 48.8 Transfer 158.0 158.0 Ordinary shares issued: Share options employees 1.9 1.9 employee trusts 0.7 0.7 At 1 May 2004 48.7 140.5 1.5 386.1 425.5 1,200.9 1,428.0 Company At 4 May 2003 as previously reported 48.7 137.9 425.5 304.6 916.7 Prior period adjustment: UITF 38 1.8 1.8 At 4 May 2003 as restated 48.7 137.9 1.8 425.5 304.6 914.9 Retained loss 91.8 91.8 Vesting of own shares 0.3 0.3 Ordinary shares issued: Share options employees 1.9 1.9 employee trusts 0.7 0.7 At 1 May 2004 48.7 140.5 1.5 425.5 212.5 825.7 As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, no profit and loss account for the Company is included in these financial statements.
The profit for the period of the Company was 50.8 million 2002 03 262.7 million.
The transfer from the capital reserve to the profit and loss account represents the attributable profit in respect of Wanadoo S. A. shares exchanged for the Groups holding in Freeserve in 2000 01 that were released from lock up arrangements in the period.
The cumulative amount of goodwill written off directly against reserves at the start and end of the period in respect of undertakings still within the Group is 127.9 million.
Own shares held by the Group and the Company represent the shares in the Company held by Dixons TSR Trust further details of which are given in note 8.
The 1,316,813 shares held at 1 May 2004 had a market value of 2.0 million 3 May 2003 3,691,355 shares held had a market value of 4.2 million and their nominal value was 0.1 million 3 May 2003 0.1 million.
80 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 24 SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS AND SHARE CAPITAL continued B RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS 2004 2003 million million Opening equity shareholders funds as previously reported 1,696.4 1,581.1 Prior period adjustments: Application Note G 357.5 355.5 UITF 38 1.8 1.8 Opening equity shareholders funds as restated 1,337.1 1,223.8 Profit for the period 280.4 205.8 Dividends 142.6 129.2 137.8 76.6 Other recognised gains and losses relating to the period 48.8 35.1 Ordinary shares issued: Share option and ownership schemes 1.9 1.6 Net additions to equity shareholders funds 90.9 113.3 Closing equity shareholders funds 1,428.0 1,337.1 The effects of the prior period adjustments described above are detailed further in note 33.
C CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL 2004 2003 million million Authorised 4,980,252,496 3 May 2003 4,980,252,496 ordinary shares of 2.5p each 124.5 124.5 Allotted and fully paid 1,948,689,632 3 May 2003 1,946,742,907 ordinary shares of 2.5p each 48.7 48.7 During the period 1,946,725 shares were issued in respect of options exercised under employee share option schemes.
Options granted under discretionary schemes prior to 28 July 2003 are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant, conditional upon a defined minimum increase in the market price of a share and, in certain cases, to the attainment of a specified rate of growth in the Companys adjusted diluted earnings per share.
Options may be exercised earlier in certain circumstances.
Options granted on 28 July 2003 are exercisable only if on the third, fourth or fifth anniversaries of the date of grant a defined minimum increase in the Companys adjusted diluted earnings per share have been achieved.
These options lapse if the performance criteria have not been met after five years from the date of grant.
82 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 26 NOTES TO THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT A RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 2003 04 2002 03 restated million million Operating profit 271.8 275.5 Depreciation 119.5 118.2 Amortisation of goodwill 4.2 4.0 Share of profit of associated undertaking 2.0 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 8.0 9.8 Net additions to exceptional provisions and impairment 26.9 9.2 Increase in stocks 101.1 25.1 Decrease in debtors 3.4 17.9 Increase decrease in creditors 11.5 47.5 328.2 340.4 B ANALYSIS OF CASH FLOWS FOR HEADINGS NETTED IN THE CASH FLOW STATEMENT 2003 04 2002 03 million million Net increase decrease in current asset investments Money market and other short-term fixed rate deposits 75.3 68.7 Floating rate notes 18.1 33.2 57.2 101.9 Net decrease increase in debt due within one year 3 7 4% Guaranteed Bonds 2004 99.9 Secured borrowings 7.9 18.5 Other short-term borrowings 16.0 219.6 123.8 201.1 Net decrease increase in debt due after more than one year 6.125% Guaranteed Bonds 2012 297.7 Secured borrowings 8.9 5.5 Other borrowings 24.0 40.4 32.9 251.8 C ANALYSIS OF NET FUNDS Disposals Other 4 May excluding cash non-cash Exchange 1 May 2003 Cash flow and overdrafts movements movements 2004 million million million million million million Cash at bank and in hand 152.0 89.7 2.4 239.3 Overdrafts 8.3 4.3 0.1 4.1 143.7 94.0 2.5 235.2 Short-term investments 713.9 57.2 5.5 0.5 765.1 Debt due within one year 143.0 123.8 6.6 52.0 7.2 57.4 Debt due after more than one year 544.5 32.9 31.8 179.2 2.5 298.1 26.4 213.9 32.9 127.2 9.2 409.6 170.1 307.9 32.9 127.2 6.7 644.8 Other non-cash movements relate to the reclassification of the 1% Exchangeable Bonds 2004 from debt due after more than one year to debt due within one year, followed by the subsequent exchange of 1192.6 million in principal value of these bonds into shares in Wanadoo S. A. as described in note 18.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 83 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 27 POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme operates in the UK where the Group maintains a funded defined benefit pension scheme for certain employees with assets held in a separate trustee administered fund.
Contributions are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries so as to spread the pension cost over the normal expected service lives of members.
The scheme is valued by a qualified actuary at least every three years.
Since 1 September 2002, the defined benefit section of the scheme has been closed to new entrants.
Membership of the defined contribution section of the pension scheme is now offered to eligible employees.
In the Nordic region, the Group operates secured defined benefit pension schemes with assets held in a life insurance company and an unsecured pension arrangement.
In addition, it makes contributions to a state pension scheme.
The effect of these schemes on the Groups results is not significant.
A REGULAR PENSION COSTS SSAP 24 Pension costs are accounted for in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs.
The Group paid contributions to its principal defined benefit plan during the period of 19.0 million 2002 03 16.6 million.
The pension charge in the profit and loss account amounted to 18.0 million 2002 03 18.1 million which represented the regular pension cost.
The pension charge in respect of defined contribution schemes was 1.0 million 2002 03 0.5 million.
A further 0.1 million 2002 03 0.1 million provision was made in respect of the unsecured pension arrangement.
The last actuarial valuation of the UK scheme was carried out as at 5 April 2001 using the projected unit method and has been used to determine the level of funding to the scheme.
The next actuarial valuation as at 5 April 2004 is in the course of completion.
The Groups contribution rate for the period ended 1 May 2004, agreed in consultation with the actuaries, was 9.9 per cent.
The contribution rate for future periods is planned to increase to 12.9 per cent by August 2006 in annual increments of 1 per cent commencing in August 2004.
The principal actuarial assumptions used as at 5 April 2001 for determining costs and contributions were: Rate per annum Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.25% Rate of increase to pensions Guaranteed Minimum Pension 3.0% Pension in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pension 2.5% Discount rate for accrued benefits 6.5% Inflation 2.5% Investment return for future service benefits 6.75% At 5 April 2001, the market value of the schemes investments was 388.2 million and, based on the above assumptions, the value of the assets was sufficient to cover 106 per cent of the benefits accrued to members after allowing for expected future increases in earnings.
This amounted to a surplus of assets over liabilities of 25 million.
84 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 27 POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued B FRS 17 DISCLOSURES FRS 17 will introduce new accounting policies in respect of pension arrangements.
FRS 17 is not fully effective for the Group until 2005 06, although additional information is required to be disclosed in the intervening period.
This information comprises the fair value of assets held and the financial assumptions made in valuing the liabilities of the scheme as well as disclosures concerning pension assets and liabilities and pension expense.
The methodologies set out in FRS 17 are different from those used by the scheme actuaries in determining funding arrangements.
Assumptions 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 Rate per annum Rate per annum Rate per annum Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 4.3% 4.0% 4.25% Rate of increase in pensions in payment deferred pensions 2.8% 2.3% 2.5% Discount rate 5.9% 5.6% 6.0% Inflation 2.8% 2.3% 2.5% Valuation 1 May 2004 3 May 2003 27 April 2002 Long term Long term Long term expected rate expected rate expected rate of return million of return million of return million Equities 8.4% 362.5 8.3% 299.3 8.0% 347.6 Bonds 5.0% 49.6 4.6% 34.2 5.2% 30.4 Cash 3.8% 6.1 4.0% 2.7 4.5% 14.8 Market value of assets 418.2 336.2 392.8 Present value of liabilities 543.9 562.8 468.9 Deficit in the scheme 125.7 226.6 76.1 Related deferred tax asset 37.7 68.0 22.8 Net FRS 17 pension liability 88.0 158.6 53.3 The effect on the profit and loss account reserve and accordingly net assets is set out below: Net FRS 17 pension liability 88.0 158.6 53.3 Reversal of existing SSAP 24 prepayment 5.3 5.3 5.3 Net adjustment which would result from the adoption of FRS 17 93.3 163.9 58.6 Profit and loss account reserve as reported as restated 1,200.9 954.9 712.1 Profit and loss account reserve on FRS 17 basis 1,107.6 791.0 653.5 The deficit under FRS 17 reflects the different basis for valuing assets and liabilities compared with SSAP 24.
The net position is sensitive to market conditions at the assessment date of 1 May 2004, particularly changes in equity values.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 85 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 27 POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS continued The FRS 17 deficit, before deferred tax benefits, has decreased during the 52 week period ended 1 May 2004 as set out below: million As at 4 May 2003 226.6 Movement in year: Contributions 19.0 Current service cost 27.4 Curtailment gain 0.4 Other finance charge 3.9 Actuarial gain 112.8 As at 1 May 2004 125.7 An analysis of the amount which would be charged to the profit and loss account is as follows: 2004 2003 million million Current service cost 27.4 22.8 Curtailment gain 0.4 Total operating charge 27.0 22.8 Expected return on pension scheme assets 27.2 31.2 Interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 31.1 28.3 Net other finance charge income 3.9 2.9 Total chargeable to profit before taxation 30.9 19.9 The amount which would be recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses is as follows: % of scheme % of scheme assets 2004 assets 2003 liabilities million liabilities million Gain loss arising from actual return less expected return on scheme assets 9.3% 38.8 31.2% 104.9 Experience gain loss arising on scheme liabilities 9.4% 51.1 3.0% 16.7 Changes of assumptions underlying the present value of scheme liabilities 3.6% 22.9 4.5% 25.6 Actuarial gain loss recognisable in statement of total recognised gains and losses 112.8 147.2 86 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 28 DISPOSAL On 8 December 2003, the Group sold its 90 per cent share in Codic International S. A. which constituted the majority of the Groups European Property division, for 133.3 million 23.3 million in cash.
The consideration was equal to the Groups share of the net asset value of Codic of 137.0 million 25.9 million at 31 October 2003.
As part of the transaction the purchasers assumed 141.8 million 29.1 million of net debt.
Net assets disposed of were as follows: million Tangible fixed assets 0.6 Short-term investments 5.5 Cash 3.8 Other current assets 96.4 Borrowings falling due within one year 6.6 Borrowings falling due after more than one year 31.8 Other creditors falling due within one year 42.0 Net assets 25.9 Minority interest 2.6 Consideration 23.3 29 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS Group 2004 2003 million million Contracted for but not provided for in the accounts 6.8 15.7 30 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES Company 2004 2003 million million 3 Guarantee of 7 % Guaranteed Bond 2004 100.0 4 Guarantee of notes issued under 1% Exchangeable Bond 2004 45.5 180.5 Guarantee of borrowings of subsidiary undertakings 25.8 Other guarantees 21.7 22.7 In the normal course of business, the Group has contingent liabilities in respect of lease covenants relating to premises assigned to third parties.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 87 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 31 OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS Group Land and buildings Other assets 2004 2003 2004 2003 million million million million At 1 May 2004 the Group was committed to the following payments during the next 52 week period in respect of operating leases which expire: Within one year 12.2 5.5 0.7 Between two and five years 56.0 48.9 1.7 0.8 After five years 249.8 226.2 318.0 280.6 2.4 0.8 32 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Company has granted Dixons TSR Trust, the employee share ownership trust, loan facilities of 50 million.
The Company made a charitable donation of 875,000 to The Dixons Foundation, the Groups registered charitable trust.
The Company is the sole benefactor of the Foundation, the principal beneficiaries of which are concerned with education, business ethics, community affairs, medicine and disabilities, heritage and the environment.
33 PRIOR PERIOD ADJUSTMENTS The change in accounting policy arising from Application Note G as described in note 1.2 has resulted in comparative figures for 2002 03 being restated as follows: As previously Prior period reported adjustment As restated million million million Profit and loss account Turnover 5,760.5 2.1 5,758.4 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 278.6 2.9 275.7 Taxation on profits on ordinary activities 68.0 0.9 67.1 Balance sheet Creditors falling due within one year Extended warranty and service contract liabilities 94.7 94.7 Accruals and deferred income from extended warranty and service contracts 341.0 341.0 Creditors falling due after more than one year Extended warranty and service contract liabilities 172.7 172.7 Deferred income from extended warranty and service contracts 437.2 437.2 Deferred taxation 74.0 153.3 79.3 Effect on cumulative reserves brought forward at 4 May 2003 357.5 The impact of the new accounting policy on the current periods turnover and profit on ordinary activities before taxation is a decrease of 1.4 million and an increase of 0.8 million, respectively.
The adoption of UITF 38, as described in note 1.2, has the effect of reducing cumulative reserves brought forward at 4 May 2003 by 1.8 million with no material effect on the profit and loss account in either the current or prior years.
The amount recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses of 4.5 million relates to the cumulative amortisation of own shares as at 4 May 2003 previously recognised in the profit and loss account and now deducted from the profit and loss account reserve.
88 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 34 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The principal subsidiary undertakings at 1 May 2004 were as follows: UK Retail International Retail Coverplan Insurance Services Limited Elkjp A. S. A. Norway Dixons Insurance Services Limited Isle of Man Elkjp Norge AS Norway DSG Card Handling Services Limited El-Giganten AB Sweden DSG Retail Limited El-Giganten Kkkenland AS Denmark Mastercare Service and Distribution Limited Gigantti OY Finland The Link Stores Limited 60% UniEuro S. p. A. Italy PC City Spain S. L. Spain Other DSG Retail Ireland Limited Ireland Dixagon S. A. Switzerland PC City France S. A. France Dixagon Finance S. A. Switzerland Electro World Hungary Kft Hungary Dixons Group Holdings Limited Electro World s. r. o. Czech Republic Dixons Overseas Investments Limited Dixons European Investments Limited Direct subsidiary of Dixons Group plc Unless otherwise indicated, principal subsidiary undertakings are wholly owned and incorporated in Great Britain.
All Group undertakings operate in their country of incorporation.
35 POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT On 4 June 2004, the Group acquired the UK operations of WHSU, Inc. and WHSU International, Inc. together known as Micro Warehouse, which specialise in direct reselling of branded IT products and services to business.
The consideration was $37.7 million 20.7 million paid in cash.
2 Underlying figures exclude the effects of discontinued operations, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
3 Net exceptional items before taxation include both operating and non-operating items.
4 Adjusted diluted earnings per share are calculated using underlying earnings and are shown in order to disclose the impact of discontinued operations, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
5 Where appropriate, prior year comparative figures have been restated to reflect the absorption of the small German property operations into the International Retail division as well as the integration of the Internet Services division, previously reported separately, into the appropriate retail division.
Comparative figures have been restated to reflect these changes in responsibility.
6 Excludes discontinued operations Codic International S. A. and Freeserve.
7 Comprises cash, short-term investments and borrowings and excludes funds held under trust in respect of extended warranty and service contract liabilities and, where relevant, funds held by Freeserve.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 91 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REGISTERED OFFICE INTERNET Maylands Avenue The Annual Report & Accounts and other information Hemel Hempstead about the Group are available on the corporate website Hertfordshire HP2 7TG shown opposite.
3847921 Shareholders are able to complete the proxy voting www.
co. uk form in relation to the annual general meeting on-line through the Registrars' website shown REGISTRARS AND TRANSFER OFFICE opposite.
You will need to input your Investor Capita IRG plc Code see opposite, surname and postal code.
The Registry 34 Beckenham Road DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN Beckenham Details of the Company's Dividend Reinvestment Plan Kent BR3 4TU are available from the Registrars.
To receive the final Tel: 0870 162 3100 dividend in the form of shares, mandate forms from www.
com new participants should be received by the Registrars by 9 September 2004.
JOINT BROKERS Cazenove DIVIDEND MANDATE Citigroup Shareholders who wish dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES the Registrars for a dividend mandate form.
This You can access shareholding details over the internet.
method of payment reduces the risk of delay or loss The web address for our Registrars site is shown of dividend cheques in the post and ensures that your above.
As well as checking name, address and account is credited on the dividend payment date.
shareholding details in the Shareholder Help section, To receive the final dividend in this way, mandate change of address, dividend mandate and stock forms should be received by the Registrars by transfer forms can be downloaded.
This is a secure 27 August 2004. site.
So that the system can validate enquiries, an Investor Code is required.
This is a numerical INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNT account number shown on share certificates and A corporate ISA is available for investors wishing dividend tax counterfoils.
to take advantage of preferential tax treatment in relation to their shareholdings.
Details are available SHARE DEALING SERVICES from Stock Trade.
Tel: 0131 240 0448 and ask for the On-line and telephone share dealing services Dixons Group helpline.
are available through our Registrars providing shareholders with easy access and simple to use ADR DEPOSITARY services.
There is no need to pre-register and the The Companys shares are available in the form of facilities allow you to trade in real time and at a American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
The Companys known price which will be given to you at the time depositary is Bank of New York.
In order to deal via these from the United States of America 888-269-2377 facilities you will need your Investor Code see above toll-free.
as well as stating your surname, full postcode and date of birth.
Details of the on-line dealing service CREST are available on www.
com and the The Companys shares are traded on CREST.
CREST telephone dealing service is on 0870 458 4577. is a voluntary system which enables shareholders to Cazenove operates a postal share dealing service hold and transfer their shareholdings electronically for private investors who wish to buy or sell the rather than by paper.
Shareholders holding shares in Companys shares.
Details are available from this way can complete the proxy voting form through Cazenove.
92 DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2003 04 CAPITAL GAINS TAX ALTERNATIVE FORMAT For the purpose of computing capital gains tax, the market value of an ordinary share in the Company If you would like the Report & on 31 March 1982 was 1.35 pence adjusted for Accounts or other shareholder rights and capitalisation issues and the corporate restructuring effected on 7 March 2000. documentation in alternative UNSOLICITED MAIL formats, please send a request The Company is obliged to make its share register to disability dixons.
co. uk or @ available to third parties on payment of a prescribed fee.
This may result in shareholders receiving telephone 01727 204474 or unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the receipt of unsolicited mail you should write to: minicom 01727 206753.
The Mailing Preference Service FREEPOST 22 London W1E 7ER Or register on their website at www.
uk SHAREGIFT The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available on the ShareGift internet site, www.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Final dividend record date 27 August 2004 Annual general meeting 8 September 2004 Payment of final dividend 30 September 2004 2004 05 interim results announcement January 2005 Payment of 2004 05 interim dividend March 2005 Designed and produced by CGI BrandSense.
Printed by St. Ives Westerham Press.
The papers used in this report are manufactured using Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp sourced from sustainable managed forests.
The pulp and paper mills hold the ISO14001 Environmental Accreditation.
DIXONS GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 04 DIXONS GROUP plc Maylands Avenue Hemel Hempstead Herts HP2 7TG Telephone 0870 850 3333 www.
