NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2004 Notice is hereby given that the Annual General b this authority shall expire on 9 September d the authority hereby conferred shall, unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, Meeting of DS Smith Plc will be held at the Great 2009 save that the Company shall be entitled expire on 9 March 2006 or, if earlier, at Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, London EC2M under such authority to honour at any time the conclusion of the next Annual General 7QN, on Friday 10 September 2004 at 12 noon to before expiry thereof any commitment to allot Meeting of the Company, save that the consider and, if thought fit, pass the following its ordinary shares which will or might be Company shall be entitled under such authority resolutions, of which resolutions 1 to 12 will be concluded wholly or partly after the expiry to make at any time before the expiry thereof proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions of such authority: and any contract to purchase its ordinary shares 13 and 14 will be proposed as special resolutions: c all previous authorities under Section 80 which will or might be concluded wholly 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report, the of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
or partly after the expiry of such authority.
Auditors Report and financial statements for 13 That: By Order of the Board the year ended 30 April 2004. a in accordance with Article 7 of the Articles Carolyn Cattermole 2 To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares.
of Association of the Company, the Directors be Secretary 3 To approve the Report on Remuneration.
given power to allot equity securities for cash: 4-16 Artillery Row London SW1P 1RZ 4 To re-elect Mr A D Thorne as a Director of the b for the purposes of paragraph 1 b of 14 July 2004 Company.
Article 7 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the nominal amount to which this 5 To re-elect Mr R G Beeston as a Director of power is limited other than in connection with the Company.
a rights issue is 1,936,489: 6 To re-elect Mr D R Piette as a Director c this power shall expire on 9 September of the Company.
2009 save that the Company shall be entitled 7 To elect Mr C J Bunker as a Director under such authority to honour at any time of the Company.
before expiry thereof any commitment to allot its ordinary shares which will or might be 8 To elect Mr J-P Loison as a Director concluded wholly or partly after the expiry of the Company.
of such authority: and 9 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor d all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Company.
of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
10 To authorise the Directors to determine the 14 That in accordance with Article 11 of the remuneration of the Auditor.
Articles of Association of the Company and 11 That: the Companies Act 1985, the Company is generally and unconditionally authorised to a the DS Smith Long-Term Incentive Plan make market purchases within the meaning the Plan, the main features of which are of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares summarised on pages 65-66, be approved and of 10p each in the capital of the Company the Directors be authorised to do all such acts in such manner and on such terms as the and things as they may consider necessary or Directors may from time to time determine expedient to carry the Plan into effect: and provided that: b the Directors be authorised to establish a the maximum number of ordinary shares such schedules to the Plan as they may hereby authorised to be purchased is consider necessary in relation to employees 38,728,840 ordinary shares: in jurisdictions outside the UK, with such modifications as may be necessary or desirable b the minimum price which may be paid to take account of local securities laws, for each ordinary share is 10p exclusive exchange control and tax legislation, provided of expenses payable by the Company : that any shares made available under such c the maximum price which may be paid schedules must be treated as counting against for each ordinary share is an amount equal the relevant limits on individual participation to 105% of the average of the middle market and overall participation in the Plan.
quotations for an ordinary share as derived 12 That: from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days a in accordance with Article 6 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Directors immediately preceding the date of any such purchase exclusive of expenses payable by be authorised to allot relevant securities up to a maximum nominal amount of 10,844,341: the Company : and 64 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 Resolution 3: a Eligibility Notes The Remuneration Committee has discretion Approval of Report on Remuneration i Only those members registered in the Register to grant awards under the Plan Awards to As required by the Directors Remuneration Report of Members of the Company as at 6 pm on any employee including an executive director Regulations 2002, shareholder approval is sought for 8 September 2004 shall be entitled to attend and of the Company or any of its subsidiaries the Report on Remuneration set out on pages 28 to 34. vote at the Meeting in respect of the number the Group who is required to devote of shares registered in their names at that time.
Resolutions 4-8: substantially the whole of his working time to Re-election of Directors ii A member entitled to attend and vote at his employment and is not within six months The Articles of Association of the Company require the Meeting is entitled to appoint one or of his anticipated retirement date.
that all Directors retire at least once every three more Proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote b Grant of Awards years but are eligible to submit themselves for instead of him.
A Proxy need not be a member Awards will be over ordinary shares in the re-election by the shareholders.
The Directors who of the Company.
Subject to the exceptional retire at each AGM are those who would otherwise iii A Form of Proxy is enclosed.
To be effective, circumstances referred to below, their vesting have served for over three years without re-election Forms of Proxy must reach the Registrars at will be contingent on the satisfaction of a by the date of the following AGM.
the address shown on the Form not later than specified performance target and the continued 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
Mr Beeston and Mr Thorne will retire and, being employment of the participant with the Group.
Completion and return of the Form will not, eligible, offer themselves for re-election at this Awards may be granted at any time within the however, prevent a member from attending years AGM.
Mr Piette is submitting himself for six-week period following the date on which and voting at the Meeting.
re-election as he has served more than three terms the Plan is approved by the Company in general of appointment.
iv Copies of the Directors service contracts with meeting and thereafter in any six-week period the Company or any of its subsidiaries, other The Articles of Association of the Company require following the announcement of the Companys than contracts expiring, or terminable by the that a Director appointed since the previous AGM results or at any other time when the employing company without compensation, within shall be subject to election by the shareholders.
circumstances are considered to be exceptional one year, will be available for inspection at the Mr Bunker and Mr Loison were appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
No payment registered office of the Company during normal Directors with effect from 9 December 2003 is required from participants for either the business hours on any weekday Public Holidays and, in accordance with the Articles, they both grant of an Award or when an Award vests.
excepted and at the place of the Meeting, from retire from office at the Meeting.
Being eligible An Award will not generally vest before the 11.45am until the conclusion of the Meeting.
they offer themselves for election.
specified performance target has been met at v Mr R G Beeston is Chairman of the A short biography of each Director, including the end of the period of three financial years Remuneration Committee and a member those seeking re-election and election, appears beginning with the year in which Awards are of the Audit and Nomination Committees of on page 22 of the Annual Report.
The extent to which the performance the Board.
Mr C J Bunker is a member of the has a service contract with the Company which target is met will determine the number of Audit and Remuneration Committees of the may be terminated by the Company on giving Shares under the Award which will vest.
Mr D R Piette is a member of the 12 months written notice.
Mr Loison has a c Performance targets Remuneration Committee.
Mr A D Thorne Letter of Appointment with the Company and The performance target for the initial Awards is a member of the General Purposes and a service contract with the Companys subsidiary, will relate to the Companys total shareholder Nomination Committees of the Board.
Kaysersberg Packaging S. A. S. which may be return performance relative to companies in the terminated by the Company or Kaysersberg vi The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and FTSE Mid 250 Index, excluding investment Packaging S. A. S. respectively on giving Nomination Committees will be available to trusts.
Total shareholder return takes into 12 months written notice.
answer relevant questions at the Meeting.
account both share price performance and dividend payments, and will be averaged over Resolutions 9 and 10: Explanatory notes on the resolutions the two-month periods immediately before the Re-appointment of Auditor Resolution 1: beginning and end of the performance period The auditor of a company must be re-appointed at Report and financial statements in order to minimise the impact of short-term each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
The Directors present to shareholders at the AGM price fluctuations.
Resolution 9 proposes the re-appointment of the the Reports of the Directors and Auditor and the Companys existing Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, until The performance targets which will apply financial statements of the Company for the year the next AGM.
Resolution 10 gives authority to the for Awards granted in 2004 are set out in ended 30 April 2004.
These are contained in the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
Total Shareholder Return Ranking % of Award Vesting Resolution 11: Resolution 2: Approval of new Long-Term Incentive Plan Upper Quartile 100% Declaration of a final dividend The rationale for the introduction of the new Final dividends declared by shareholders must Median 30% Long-Term Incentive Plan is set out in the not exceed the amount recommended by the Median-Upper Quartile 30%-100% Report on Remuneration on page 29.
By passing Resolution 2, shareholders pro rata, on a operation of the Plan will be supervised by will declare a final dividend.
The amount of the straight-line basis the Remuneration Committee of the Board final dividend recommended by the Directors Below Median Nil the Remuneration Committee.
is 5.6p net per ordinary share.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 65 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 2004 In addition, no Awards will vest unless the still an employee of the Group.
However, Shares issued pursuant to the Plan shall rank pari Companys earnings per share growth is at where a participant leaves due to: passu in all respects with the ordinary shares least equal to the increase in the Retail Prices already in issue except that they will not rank for death: or Index over the performance period.
any dividend or distribution paid or made by injury or disability evidenced to the satisfaction reference to a record date falling prior to the date Only a single test will be made at the end of of the Remuneration Committee: or the shares are transferred to participants.
the three year performance period, and no re-testing will be permitted.
statutory redundancy: or Benefits obtained under the Plan will not be pensionable, and Awards are not assignable or Performance targets on existing awards may be retirement at or after contractual retirement transferable except in the event of death, amended to ensure that they remain appropriate, age or early retirement with the consent of when they may be assigned to the participants provided that the amended targets are no less the Remuneration Committee: or personal representatives.
or more challenging than the initial ones.
the company employing the participant The Remuneration Committee will regularly k Amending the rules of the Plan ceasing to be a member of the Group, or the monitor the continuing suitability of the The Remuneration Committee may amend business in which the participant works being performance targets and may impose different transferred to a person who is not a member the Plan provided that the prior approval targets on Awards granted in subsequent years, of the Group: or of the Company in general meeting will be provided that they are no less challenging.
required for any amendment to the advantage any other reason that the Remuneration of participants to those provisions of the Plan d Individual limit Committee in its discretion so permits: relating to eligibility, the limitations on No individual may receive an Award over then Awards may vest immediately.
However, the number of Shares subject to the Plan, Shares which have an aggregate market value the number of Shares under an Award which a participants maximum entitlement, the basis when the Award is granted which is more than vest in these circumstances will depend for determining a participants entitlement 100 per cent of his annual rate of basic salary.
upon the extent to which the performance under the Plan and the adjustment of Awards in In the event that any individual is granted both targets are satisfied at that time unless the event of a variation in capital, except in the options under the Companys executive share the Remuneration Committee decides case of minor amendments to benefit the option scheme and Awards under the Plan in otherwise in exceptional circumstances.
administration of the Plan, to take account of the same financial year, the aggregate market g Delivery of Shares on vesting changes in legislation or to obtain or maintain value of Shares granted under his Award for Once a participants Award has vested, the favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory that year will not exceed 75 per cent of his relevant number of ordinary shares in the treatment for participants or for any member of salary, other than in exceptional circumstances Company will be delivered to the participant the Group.
such as high level recruitment or promotion as soon as practicable.
in which case the 100 per cent of salary limit l Overseas jurisdictions will apply to his Awards.
h Change of control Additional schedules to the rules may be In the event of a takeover, reconstruction, incorporated to operate outside the UK.
These e Limits on the issue of Shares under the Plan amalgamation or winding-up of the Company, schedules may vary the rules of the Plan to No Award may be granted under the Plan if, as all subsisting Awards will vest immediately take account of any securities law, exchange a result, the aggregate number of Shares issued to the extent the performance conditions are control or taxation laws or regulations.
Any or issuable pursuant to grants made during the satisfied when measured up to the date of the shares made available under such schedules previous 10 years under the Plan and all other relevant event.
Awards will be pro-rated to will count against the relevant limits on executive share schemes established by the time unless the Remuneration Committee Company would exceed 5 per cent of the issued individual participation and overall decides otherwise in the circumstances.
ordinary share capital of the Company from participation in the Plan.
i Variation of share capital time to time, or more than 10 per cent of the m Termination In the event of any variation in the share capital issued ordinary share capital of the Company The Plan may be terminated at any time by of the Company prior to the vesting of an Award, when aggregated with grants made under all resolution of the Board or of the Company including a capitalisation issue, a rights issue, of the Companys employee share schemes.
in general meeting and shall in any event a sub-division or consolidation of shares, a Any treasury Shares used in the Plan will terminate on the tenth anniversary of the reduction in capital or a demerger, the payment count against these limits.
date on which the Plan is approved by the of capital dividend or similar event affecting the The Plan may use Shares purchased in the Company in general meeting.
Termination will Company, the Remuneration Committee may market and held by an employee benefit trust, not affect the outstanding rights of participants.
make such adjustments to the number of shares but it is not intended that such trust will hold subject to Awards as it considers appropriate.
Resolution 12: more than 5 per cent of the Companys issued Directors authority to allot shares j Rights relating to the Awards ordinary share capital at any time.
Authority was granted to the Directors at last years Awards shall not confer the right to vote f Vesting of Awards AGM, pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies the Shares under them or receive any An Award will normally vest on the third Act 1985, to allot shares in the Company without dividends or any other rights in respect anniversary of its grant date to the extent that the prior consent of shareholders for a period of of those Shares until the Shares under the the applicable performance condition has been Awards have been allotted or transferred five years.
Resolution 12, which will be proposed satisfied and provided that the participant is to the participant following vesting.
as an ordinary resolution, will, if passed, give 66 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 the Directors renewed authority to allot shares up this authority and would do so only when, in the Important notes about the to a maximum nominal value of 10,844,341 light of market conditions, they believed that the Annual General Meeting representing 28 per cent of the issued share effect of such purchases would be to increase Date capital of the Company at 23 June 2004. earnings per share, and that the purchases were in Friday 10 September 2004. the interests of shareholders generally.
The Directors Other than in connection with any exercise Location would also give careful consideration to gearing of options under the Groups employee share Great Eastern Hotel, Liverpool Street, London levels of the Company and its general financial option schemes, the Directors have no present EC2M 7QN.
The purchase price would be paid out of intention of exercising the allotment authority Timing distributable profits.
Any shares purchased under proposed by this Resolution.
The authority will The Meeting will start promptly at 12 noon and this authority will be cancelled and the number expire on 9 September 2009, except in so far as shareholders wishing to attend are advised to be of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly.
commitments to allot shares have been entered into in the venue no later than 11.50 am.
The reception before that date.
It is the present intention of the Resolution 14 specifies the maximum number area will be open from 11.30 am, from which time Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
of shares which may be purchased representing refreshments will be served.
10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital Resolution 13: Travel information at 30 April 2004, the minimum and maximum Directors power to disapply See map on the reverse of Admittance Card for the prices at which they may be bought and when the pre-emption rights location of the Great Eastern Hotel, and the nearest authority will expire, reflecting the requirements This Resolution, which will be proposed as underground and railway stations.
The venue is less of the Companies Act 1985 and the Listing Rules a special resolution, supplements the Directors than five minutes walk from Liverpool Street station.
of the UK Listing Authority.
authority to allot shares in the Company There are no car parking facilities at the venue.
The maximum price at which the shares may be Admission purchased is 5 per cent above the average of the Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 requires Please bring the Admittance Card with you to middle market values of those shares for the five a company proposing to allot equity securities the Meeting.
You may be asked to show the Card business days before the purchase is made.
for cash to offer them first to existing shareholders before being admitted to the venue.
Shareholders pro rata to their existing shareholdings.
Authority Purchases of shares under the proposed authority and proxy holders may also be required to provide was granted to the Directors at last years AGM are required by the UK Listing Authority to be proof of identity.
The registration process may take and the Directors propose to seek shareholders made in compliance with The Model Code for longer without these documents.
approval to renew this authority, pursuant to securities transactions by directors of listed Facilities Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot companies.
Accordingly, the Company would not The Great Eastern Hotel has wheelchair access.
such securities, notwithstanding the requirement exercise the authority at a time when the Directors If you are planning to come to the Meeting and are imposed by Section 89, in two cases: would be precluded from dealing in the Companys a wheelchair user, it would be helpful if you would shares.
Specifically, purchases would not be made in connection with a rights issue: and telephone the venue in advance on 020 7618 5618. within the two months preceding the announcement allotments of shares for cash up to a total Enquiries and questions of the interim or final results.
This proposal should nominal value of 1,936,489 representing Shareholders who intend to ask a question related not be taken as an indication that the Company 5 per cent of the Companys issued share to the business of the Meeting are asked to provide would purchase shares at any particular price or capital at 23 June 2004.
This gives the their name, address and question at the Registration to imply any opinion on the part of the Directors Directors flexibility to take advantage of desk.
Staff from Lloyds TSB Registrars will be on as to the market or other value of the Companys business opportunities as they arise, whilst hand to provide advice and assistance.
the 5 per cent limit ensures that existing The total number of ordinary shares that are under shareholders interests are protected, and is in line with guidelines issued by institutional option through the Companys share option schemes investors bodies.
at 23 June 2004 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this notice is 13,248,235 This authority will expire on 9 September 2009, of which 11,968,775 are options over unissued except in so far as commitments to allot shares ordinary shares.
The proportion of issued ordinary have been entered into before that date.
It is the share capital that the options over unissued present intention of the Directors to seek a similar ordinary shares represented on this date was 3.09% authority annually.
and the proportion of issued ordinary share capital Resolution 14: that they will represent if the full authority to Companys authority to purchase shares purchase shares existing and being sought is This Resolution, which will be proposed as used is 2.81%.
a special resolution, seeks to renew the existing The authority will expire on 9 March 2006 authority for the Company to purchase its own shares or at the conclusion of the next AGM whichever in the market.
This authority gives the Company greater flexibility in managing its capital resources.
It is the present intention of the Directors to seek a similar authority annually.
The Directors have no specific intention of using DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2004 67
