Accounting policies Basis of preparation Turnover The consolidated financial statements are prepared Turnover represents the invoiced value or contracted under the historical cost convention and in accordance amount of goods and services supplied by the Company with applicable accounting standards.
The results for and its subsidiaries.
Turnover excludes value added tax the years ended 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2003 and similar sales-related taxes.
represent continuing operations except the joint venture HMV Group plc discontinued.
Pension costs Pension costs, which are determined in accordance with Basis of consolidation SSAP24 Accounting for Pension Costs are charged to The consolidated financial statements comprise the the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The pensions over the working lives of the employees within results of all subsidiaries are taken from their accounts the Group.
Valuation surpluses or deficits are amortised made up to 31 March or such earlier date not prior to over the expected remaining working life within the 31 December which represents their financial period Group of the relevant employees estimated to be eight end, as adjusted for material items that have occurred years in respect of the UK.
The amortisation of valuation in the intervening period.
The results of subsidiaries, surpluses is restricted to an amount equal to the regular joint ventures and associated undertakings disposed pension cost.
Accordingly, employer expense in respect of or acquired during the year are included up to, or of the main scheme, which covers employees in the UK, from, the date that control passes.
has been taken as nil for each of the two years ended 31 March 2004.
Changes in financial reporting standards Transitional arrangements for FRS17 Retirement Joint ventures and associated undertakings Benefits continue to be adopted by the Group with effect Where the Group has an investment in an entity which from 31 March 2002 see Note 27. is sufficient to give the Group a participating interest, and over which it is in a position to exercise significant During the year the Accounting Standards Board issued influence, the entity is treated as an associated UITF38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts and UITF17 undertaking and is accounted for using the equity Revised Employee Share Schemes.
Entities in which the Group holds an interest on adopted by the Group with effect from 1 April 2003 and a long-term basis and which are jointly controlled by the the comparatives for the year ended 31 March 2003 Group and one or more other parties under a contractual have been restated where appropriate see Note 23. arrangement, are treated as joint ventures and are accounted for using the gross equity method.
Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are The results of joint ventures and associated recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the date undertakings are taken from their accounts made up of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities to 31 March or such earlier date not prior to 31 denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into December which represents their financial period end, Sterling either at year-end rates or, where there are as adjusted for material items that have occurred in the related forward foreign exchange contracts, at contract intervening period.
The resulting exchange differences are dealt with in the determination of profit for the financial year.
Goodwill and other intangibles Goodwill and recorded catalogue intangibles arising on On consolidation, average exchange rates have been acquisitions made after 31 March 1998 are capitalised used to translate the results of overseas subsidiaries, and amortised over their expected useful life, principally joint ventures and associated undertakings.
The assets restricted to 20 years, in accordance with FRS10 and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and associated Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
They are reviewed for undertakings are translated into Sterling at year-end impairment at the end of the first full financial year rates.
following acquisition and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the Exchange differences arising from the retranslation at carrying value may not be recoverable.
year-end exchange rates of: i the opening net investment in overseas subsidiaries, Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 March joint ventures and associated undertakings and 1998 has been charged directly against shareholders foreign currency borrowings in so far as they are funds in the year of acquisition and is included within the matched by those overseas investments: and profit and loss reserve, yet separately identified within ii the results of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures the reserves note.
This goodwill will remain in reserves and associated undertakings, until, on the disposal or closure of any business, the are dealt with in Group reserves.
profit and loss account includes a charge in respect of the goodwill previously written off against shareholders funds on the acquisition of the business.
48 Music copyrights Taxation Music copyrights purchased prior to 1 April 1989 were The Company has undertaken to discharge the liability written off against shareholders funds on acquisition.
to corporation tax of the majority of its wholly owned UK Copyrights acquired as a result of acquisitions on or after subsidiaries.
Their UK tax liabilities are therefore dealt 1 April 1989 are capitalised as intangible assets in the with in the accounts of the Company.
Group balance sheet, and are amortised by equal annual amounts over not more than 20 years, other than Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing in exceptional circumstances when sufficient ongoing differences that have originated but not reversed at the impairment tests can be performed to support a useful balance sheet date, where transactions or events have economic life of over 20 years.
Where a useful economic occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to life of up to 20 years has been adopted, copyrights are pay more tax, or right to pay less, or to receive more, tax, reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full with the following exceptions: financial year following acquisition and in other periods Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of carrying value may not be recoverable.
fixed assets, or gains on disposal of fixed assets, only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, there is Advances to artists a binding agreement to dispose of the assets Advances to artists and repertoire owners are assessed concerned.
However, no provision is made where, and the value of the unrecouped portion to be included on the basis of all available evidence at the balance in debtors is determined by the prospects of future sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable recoupment, based on past sales performance, current gain will be rolled over into replacement assets.
Provision is made for gains which have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the extent that, Leased assets at the balance sheet date, there is a commitment Assets held under finance leases are included as to dispose of the replacement assets.
tangible fixed assets at their estimated purchase cost Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise and depreciated over their expected useful lives, or over on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas the primary lease period, whichever is shorter.
The subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the obligations relating to finance leases net of finance extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have charges allocated to future periods are included under been accrued as receivable.
borrowings due within or after one year, as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss that the Directors consider that it is more likely than account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing differences can be Depreciation of tangible fixed assets deducted.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated on cost at rates estimated to write off the cost, less the Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at estimated residual value of the relevant assets, by equal the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in annual amounts over their expected useful lives: effect which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and is given, where necessary, to commercial and technical laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance obsolescence.
The annual rates used are: Financial instruments Freehold buildings and long-term Any premium or discount associated with the purchase leasehold property 2% of interest rate instruments is amortised over the life of Short-term leasehold property Period of lease the transaction.
Interest receipts and payments are 1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 33 3% accrued to match the net income or cost with the related finance expense.
No amounts are recognised in respect The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are of future periods.
reviewed for impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not Directly attributable issue costs have been reported be recoverable.
as a reduction in the proceeds of the relevant capital instruments and are amortised over the life of the Stocks instrument.
Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, less progress payments New media holdings on uncompleted contracts and provisions for expected Holdings in new media companies that arise as a losses.
Cost includes manufacturing overheads where consequence of licensing, distribution and other similar appropriate.
deals with such companies, are carried at cost.
Income from these holdings, net of costs, is only recognised when received as cash and is treated as other operating income.
The costs relating to these investments are held within debtors until they are recognised with the related income.
