65 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 US GAAP reconciliation Reconciliation to Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in considering the Groups market capitalisation.
If the fair value of the United States any individual reporting unit is determined to be less than its book value, a second step is performed for the reporting unit to The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in compute the amount of the impairment.
In this process, the fair accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the value for goodwill is estimated, based in part on the fair value of United Kingdom UK GAAP, which differ in certain significant the reporting unit as determined during step one, less the fair respects from those generally accepted in the United States value of its net assets.
The shortfall of calculated goodwill from US GAAP.
The adjustments to net profit loss for the period step two and the carrying value of goodwill attributable to the and equity shareholders funds required when reconciling such reporting unit represents the amount of goodwill impairment.
amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements to the corresponding amounts in accordance with US GAAP are shown Differences also arise upon the calculation of goodwill under UK in the tables that follow.
This footnote does not include all and US GAAP due to differences in determining net asset values disclosures required by US GAAP.
at the time of acquiring subsidiaries.
Goodwill amortisation and impairment Under UK GAAP, Pension costs In the Groups consolidated financial statements, the policy followed prior to the introduction of FRS10 which pension costs are accounted for in accordance with SSAP 24, is effective for accounting periods ended on or after with costs being charged to income over employees estimated 23 December 1998 and was adopted on a prospective basis working lives.
Under US GAAP, pension costs are determined in was to write off goodwill against equity shareholders funds accordance with the requirements of SFAS 87 Employers in the year of acquisition.
On the subsequent disposal or Accounting for Pensions and SFAS 88 Employers Accounting termination of a previously acquired business, the profit or for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension loss is calculated after charging the amount of related goodwill Plans and for Termination Benefits.
Differences between the UK previously charged to reserves.
FRS10 requires goodwill to and US GAAP figures arise from the requirement to use different be capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful methods and assumptions for valuing scheme assets and a economic life.
Under US GAAP, goodwill arising on all different method of amortising surpluses or deficits.
As a result, a difference between Deferred taxation Under UK GAAP, FRS19 requires deferred tax UK GAAP and US GAAP arises on goodwill balances on to be provided in full on all liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are acquisitions pre-implementation of FRS10.
recognised to the extent it is regarded as more likely than not The Group has adopted a 20 year estimated useful life with that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future respect to goodwill amortisation, however effective from reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
29 September 2002, under US GAAP, the Group adopted the Under US GAAP, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised provisions of SFAS 142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets for the estimated future tax consequences of events attributable SFAS 142.
SFAS 142 requires the discontinuance of goodwill to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts amortisation, along with the requirement to perform goodwill of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and impairment tests as discussed below.
operating and capital loss and tax credit carry forwards.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reduced through the Under UK GAAP, goodwill is evaluated for impairment whenever establishment of a valuation allowance at such time as, based events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying on available evidence, it is more likely than not a likelihood of amount of goodwill may not be recoverable.
The Group assesses if more than 50% that the deferred tax assets will not be realised.
the carrying amount of goodwill is recoverable by using discounted The resulting adjustment from UK GAAP to US GAAP relates to cash flows.
When the cash flow analysis indicates that goodwill is the timing of the recognition of certain deferred tax assets related impaired, the impairment loss to be recognised is measured by to losses, as well as the tax effect on the other reconciling items.
the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the present value of the assets of the related reporting unit.
Under US GAAP, Other In the Groups consolidated financial statements, immaterial impairment tests are performed on at least an annual basis or differences arise between UK and US GAAP.
These differences unless facts and circumstances indicate that a potential relate to the required accounting treatments for leasing impairment exists.
These impairment tests require a comparison of transactions, share option costs, restructuring and relocation the book value of net assets to the fair value of the related charges, derivative instruments, loss contingencies, long-lived reporting units that have goodwill assigned to them.
The Group assets and capitalised interest.
The net effects of these GAAP estimates the fair values of its reporting units using discounted differences are disclosed as Other in the tables below.
The cash flow forecasts are adjusted by an appropriate discount rate plus a suitable control premium as well as 66 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 US GAAP reconciliation The effects of the differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP on net profit loss and equity shareholders funds are as follows: 53 weeks to 52 weeks to 2 October 27 September 2004 2003 m m Net profit loss Retained profit loss in accordance with UK GAAP 43.9 9.4 Items increasing decreasing UK GAAP operating profit loss Goodwill amortisation 12.1 13.5 Pension costs 3.2 2.2 Deferred taxation 25.9 36.9 Other 1.4 2.6 Net profit loss in accordance with US GAAP before cumulative effect of accounting change 25.5 9.2 Cumulative effect of accounting change SFAS 142 84.9 Net profit loss in accordance with US GAAP 25.5 94.1 2004 2003 m m Equity Shareholders funds Equity Shareholders funds as reported in accordance with UK GAAP 196.7 160.6 Items increasing decreasing equity shareholders funds Goodwill amortisation 85.4 79.2 Pension costs 31.4 9.2 Deferred taxation 11.8 32.4 Other 2.3 1.2 Equity Shareholders funds in accordance with US GAAP 304.0 261.8 All adjustments exclude the effect of taxes, with all tax related adjustments included within the taxation line item.
