41 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Accounting policies Basis of accounting Derivative financial instruments The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce all been applied consistently throughout the year and the exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate movements.
preceding year with the exception of accounting for the ESOP The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments trust which is explained in notes 12 and 21. for speculative purposes.
The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost For a forward foreign exchange contract to be treated as a hedge convention and comply in all respects with applicable Accounting the instrument must be related to actual foreign currency assets Standards in the UK.
or liabilities or to a probable commitment.
It must involve the same currency or similar currencies as the hedged item and must also Basis of consolidation reduce the risk of foreign currency exchange movements on the These accounts consolidate the accounts of the Company and all Groups operations.
Gains and losses arising on these contracts its subsidiary companies and undertakings subsidiary entities, are deferred and recognised in the profit and loss account, or as collectively the Group, made up to the period end.
The results of adjustments to the carrying amount of fixed assets, only when the subsidiary entities are included in the Group profit and loss the hedged transaction has itself been reflected in the Groups account from the date of acquisition to the date of disposal.
Acquisitions and disposals For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge the instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or a probable On the acquisition of a business, including an interest in an commitment and must change the nature of the interest rate associated undertaking, fair values are attributed to the Groups by converting a fixed rate to a variable rate or vice versa.
share of net separable assets.
Where the cost of the assets Interest differentials under these swaps are recognised by exceeds the fair values attributable to such net assets, the adjusting net interest payable over the periods of the contracts.
difference is treated as purchased goodwill.
Following the implementation of FRS10, goodwill arising on the acquisition of If an instrument ceases to be accounted for as a hedge, for subsidiaries is capitalised in the Group balance sheet in the year example because the underlying hedged position is eliminated, of acquisition.
Goodwill arising on associates is included with the the instrument is marked to market and any resulting profit or carrying value of the associate.
loss recognised at that time.
Foreign currency translation Turnover Foreign exchange differences arising from exchange rate variations Turnover represents amounts receivable for goods and services on trading transactions are included in operating profit.
Overseas provided in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts profits remitted to the UK during the period are translated at and allowances, value added tax and other sales related taxes.
The balance sheets of overseas Revenue from product sales is recognised when evidence of subsidiary entities are translated into sterling at rates of exchange an arrangement exists, all the risks and rewards of ownership ruling at the year end.
Profit and loss accounts are translated at and loss have transferred to the customer, the price is fixed the average rate for the month in which the profits were earned.
or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured.
Differences arising from the restatement of opening foreign Service revenue is recognised when services are rendered.
currency net investments and net overseas profits or losses are Property revenue is recognised upon completion of the sale dealt with through reserves, as are differences on long-term when the profit is determinable and the earnings process is foreign currency borrowings used to finance overseas investment.
Other translation differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
42 Enodis annual report accounts 2004 Accounting policies Research and development Investments Research and development expenditure is written off as it a Subsidiary entities In the accounts of the Company is incurred.
investments are held at cost less any provision for impairment.
Pension costs b Other fixed asset investmentsThese are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
It is the general policy of the Group to fund pension liabilities, on the advice of professionally qualified actuaries, by payments to Goodwill and intangible fixed assets independent trusts or to insurance companies.
Independent Goodwill arising on acquisitions has been capitalised and is actuaries valuations are carried out at regular intervals, on a amortised over a period of 20 years: the Directors regard 20 years projected unit funding or attained age basis.
In addition, the impact as a reasonable estimated useful life of goodwill since it is difficult of any significant related events, such as major changes in stock to make projections exceeding this period.
When it is apparent that market values, are assessed through a formal review process.
the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the estimated net present Charges in respect of defined benefit schemes are made to the value of future cash flows less operating assets, an impairment profit and loss account so as to spread the costs of pensions at provision is charged against the profit for the period.
Goodwill a substantially level percentage of payroll costs over employees eliminated against reserves before the application of FRS10 has estimated service lives.
Contributions to defined contribution not been reinstated and has been offset against the profit and loss schemes are charged to the profit and loss account on a account reserves.
Goodwill previously taken to reserves is charged payment basis.
in the profit and loss account when the related business is sold.
Finance costs Tangible fixed assets Finance costs incurred in arranging debt facilities are capitalised Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
and recognised in the profit and loss account over the term of Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write-off the cost or the debt.
valuation of each asset, on a straight line basis, over its expected useful life as follows: Taxation Freehold land: nil.
Corporation tax payable is provided on taxable profits at the current rate.
Credit is taken for Advance Corporation Tax written-off in Freehold and long leasehold buildings: 1%2%.
previous years when it is recoverable against current corporation Short leasehold properties: over the unexpired period of tax liabilities.
Deferred taxation is provided on timing differences that result in 1 Plant and equipment: 10%33 3%.
obligations at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they Leases crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised and arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the expected taxation computations in periods different from those in which useful life of the asset.
Operating lease rentals are charged to they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax assets and the profit and loss account as incurred.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised in full.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Stocks considered more likely than not that the asset will be recovered.
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
No provision has been made for any potential taxation liability that The cost of work-in-progress and finished goods includes an would arise were the earnings of foreign subsidiary entities to be appropriate portion of manufacturing overheads.
