Explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the amount of the auditors fees.
The Audit Committee Company to be held on Thursday, 20 January 2005 keeps under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
After considering relevant is set out on pages 70 to 73.
The following notes provide an explanation as to why the resolutions set information, the Audit Committee recommended to the out in the notice are to be put to shareholders.
Board the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
Resolution 8 Remuneration Report Resolutions 1 to 15 are ordinary resolutions.
These The Act requires the Company to seek shareholder resolutions will be passed if more than 50 per cent of the votes cast for or against are in favour.
approval for the directors remuneration report at the general meeting before which the Companys annual Resolution 1 Laying of Accounts accounts are laid.
The directors remuneration report is The Companies Act 1985 the Act requires that, for included in the annual report and accounts.
If each financial year, the directors lay the Companys shareholders vote against the report the directors will annual accounts, the directors report, the directors still be paid but the Remuneration Committee will remuneration report and the auditors report on the reconsider its policy.
annual accounts and the auditable part of the directors Resolution 9 Increase of fees payable to nonremuneration report before a general meeting.
executive directors Resolution 2 Declaration of a Final Dividend Article 92 of the Articles provides that the Company An interim dividend of 3.6 pence net has already been may, by ordinary resolution, increase the maximum paid in respect of the 2003 2004 financial year.
The aggregate amount of fees payable to its non-executive directors are recommending a final dividend of 8.4 directors to a level above 200,000.
Passing this pence net per ordinary share of 5 pence, payable on resolution will increase the maximum aggregate amount 24 January 2005 to holders on the register as at 6.00 of fees that may be paid to non-executive directors to p. m. on 31 December 2004.
The final dividend will not 500,000 per year.
The proposed increase reflects the be paid without shareholder approval.
growth of the Company and the impact on nonexecutive directors fees of the substantial increase in Resolutions 3, 4 and 5 Reappointment of Mr G E their corporate governance and other responsibilities in Tuppen, Mr D C George and Mr A J Stewart recent years.
The increase will also provide headroom for The Companys articles of association the Articles any additional non-executive appointments and further require that any director who was not appointed or increases in responsibility which may be required as a reappointed at either of the last two annual general result of the new Combined Code on Corporate meetings before this meeting must retire, although they Governance.
Details of the fees paid to non-executive may offer themselves for reappointment.
Accordingly, Mr directors in the financial year ended 30 September 2004 G E Tuppen, Mr D C George and Mr A J Stewart are are included in the annual report and accounts.
Biographical information for Mr G E Tuppen, Mr D C George and Mr Resolution 10 Authority to the directors to allot A J Stewart is included in the annual report and accounts.
shares Under the Act the directors may only allot shares if Resolution 6 Reappointment of Mrs S E Murray authorised to do so.
If passed, this resolution will The Articles require that all directors appointed by the authorise the directors to allot and issue new shares Board since the previous annual general meeting must be and or sell shares held as treasury shares up to an reappointed by the shareholders of the Company.
Mrs S E aggregate nominal value of 5,819,264 up to Murray was appointed by the Board on 3 November 2004 116,385,280 new ordinary shares of 5 pence each, and is therefore retiring and seeking reappointment by which is equal to approximately one-third 33.3% of the shareholders.
Biographical information for Mrs S E Murray current issued share capital of the Company.
At the date is included in the annual report and accounts.
of this notice the issued share capital of the Company Resolution 7 Auditors was 349,505,390 ordinary shares of 5 pence each and The Act requires that auditors be appointed at each the Company held no treasury shares.
The authority will general meeting at which accounts are laid, to hold expire 15 months after the date of passing of the office until the next such meeting.
The resolution also resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual seeks authority for the directors to determine the General Meeting of the Company in 2006.
74 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 Explanatory notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting Passing this resolution will continue the directors share excluding expenses is 5 pence and the maximum flexibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, price payable per share excluding expenses is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middlewhen opportunities arise, by issuing new shares or market quotations for an ordinary share according to the selling treasury shares.
The directors currently have no Daily Official List of London Stock Exchange plc for the intention of issuing new shares.
five business days immediately preceding the day on Resolutions 11 to 15 Adoption of new share which the contract for purchase is made.
This authority plans of the Company will only be exercised if market conditions make it Information in relation to these resolutions and advantageous to do so.
summaries of the proposed new share plans can be The directors present intention is that shares purchased found in the Chairman of the Remuneration Committees pursuant to this authority to the extent statutory letter to shareholders dated 30 November 2004, a copy requirements are met and provided they do not exceed of which is enclosed with the document of which this 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital will notice and explanatory notes form part.
be held in treasury for future cancellation, sale for cash, Resolutions 16 and 17 are special resolutions.
or provided Listing Rule Requirements are met transfer These resolutions will be passed if not less than 75 to an employee share plan, although they may be per cent of the votes cast for and against are in cancelled immediately on repurchase in the light of favour.
The effect of any cancellation would be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For Resolution 16 Disapplication of statutory most purposes while held in treasury shares are treated pre-emption rights as if they have been cancelled for example, they carry If the Company issues new shares for cash it must first no voting rights and do not rank for dividends.
The offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their directors will only make purchases under this authority current holdings, in compliance with their statutory preafter considering the effect on earnings per share and emption rights.
If passed, this resolution will authorise the benefits for shareholders generally.
the directors to modify these rights to deal with legal, regulatory or practical problems that may arise on a At the date of this notice options were outstanding over rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue.
5,482,482 ordinary shares of 5 pence each in the Company representing approximately 1.57% of the The resolution also seeks shareholder authority to issue current issued share capital of the Company.
If the a limited number of shares for cash and or sell treasury proposed market purchase authority were used in full, shares without offering them to shareholders first.
The shares over which options were outstanding would authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of up to 5 represent approximately 1.85% of the Companys per cent of the aggregate nominal value of the current adjusted share capital.
issued share capital of the Company up to 17,475,269 new ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
The authority will expire at the same time as the authority to allot shares given pursuant to resolution 10.
The directors consider this authority necessary in order to give them flexibility to deal with opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions contained in this resolution.
Resolution 17 Purchase of own shares by the Company If passed this resolution will grant the Company authority for a period of up to 15 months after the date of passing of the resolution to buy its own shares in the market.
The resolution limits the number of shares that may be purchased to 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
The minimum price payable per Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 75 76 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 Ship Inn The Enterprise Inns Team Contents Financial Highlights 1 Directors and Advisers 2 Spread Eagle Chairmans Statement 4 Chief Executives Review 5 Finance Directors Report 10 Directors Report 13 Corporate Governance 17 Ship Inn, Hoylake.
Report on Directors Remuneration 23 Group Profit and Loss Account 31 Left to right: Andrew Clifford, Strategic Planning and Investment Manager: David George, Finance Director: Ted Tuppen, Chief Executive: Four Alls Group Statement of Total Recognised Gains And Losses 32 Simon Townsend, Customer Services Director: Gordon Harrison, Note of Historical Cost Profits and Losses 32 Operations Director.
Group Balance Sheet 33 Balance Sheet 34 Group Statement of Cash Flows 35 Spread Eagle, Tunbridge Wells.
Notes to the Accounts 36 Former Whitbread managers Keith and Lindsay Ackerman took on the lease Report of the Auditors 66 of The Spread Eagle when it was acquired by the Company.
After steadily Five Year Record 68 repositioning the pub by growing its food offering, the size and layout of Analysis of Shareholders 69 the site restricted further growth.
A joint investment has now added a garden room restaurant and a kitchen extension to further develop the Financial Calendar 69 catering opportunity which has flourished since completion.
Notice of Meeting 70 Explanatory Notes to the Notice of AGM 74 Four Alls, Welford on Avon.
An investment of over 300,000 has established the Four Alls as a stylish, contemporary, food-led destination and enabled it to exploit its riverside location to the full.
Weekly takings have more than tripled as a result.
The Vine The Red & Mellow Yellow The Bell Inn The Bell Inn, Tanworth in Arden The Thornberries The closure of the local village Post Office provided the catalyst for lessee Ashley Bent and the Company to install a Post Office counter together with a high quality delicatessen in a littleused public bar area of this pub.
"Following the refurbishment of all trading areas, this stylish and highly successful pub can now add ""Shopping"" to its theme of ""Eating, Drinking & Sleeping""."
This project was supported by the Pub is The Vine Bar & Kitchen, Cambridge the Hub campaign, of which the Prince of Wales is the patron.
The Vine has been a well-known live music venue in Cambridge for many years, but had progressively declined in popularity until it was no longer a viable operation.
New lessee Falcon Pubs Ltd elected to completely transform the customer proposition of the Vine to take advantage of its proximity to shops, leisure venues, offices and local residents.
A substantial joint investment with the Company has produced immediate results and The Red & Mellow Yellow, Mansfield.
the pub is now taking in excess of 10,000 per week.
Rising Sun The trade in this former managed house had The Bell declined to such an extent that a total repositioning was required to create a sustainable business.
Using another successful project as a benchmark, licensees Norman Lowry and Danny Hughes have transformed the outlet to include a highly successful coffee shop as well as the traditional pub fayre.
Plans are already underway to further develop the site by adding a restaurant.
Rising Sun, Clanfield 35 years ago, in this small Hampshire village of thatched cottages and brick and flint houses, the Rising Sun was built in 1 day as a prefabricated structure designed to last no more than a few years.
In a project lasting almost a year, the Working in partnership with the Company, increasing numbers existing building was demolished and a brand new brick and flint building has been created out of reclaimed materials.
Lessees the Wheeler family have jointly of licensees are recognising the business opportunity which invested with the Company to create a vibrant village pub which is totally in can be developed by offering a wider range of services in pubs.
keeping with its local community and surroundings.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Enterprise Inns plc 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B90 4SJ Tel: 44 0 121 733 7700 Fax: 44 0 121 733 6447 www.
7971 06.12.04 Proof 1 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
