Notice of Meeting The 2005 Annual General Meeting of Enterprise Inns any offer or agreement which would or might require plc the Company will be held at the offices of relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry the Company, 3 Monkspath Hall Road, Solihull, and the directors may allot relevant securities in West Midlands, B90 4SJ at 11.00 a. m. on pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the 20 January 2005 for the following purposes: authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following 11.
THAT the Enterprise Inns 2005 Annual Bonus Plan resolutions which will be proposed as ordinary the Bonus Plan referred to in the Chairman of the resolutions: Remuneration Committees letter to shareholders dated 30 November 2004, a copy of the rules of 1.
To receive the directors report and the audited which are produced to this meeting and, for the accounts for the year ended 30 September 2004 and the auditors report on the accounts.
purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman, be and is approved and the directors be and are 2.
authorised to make such modifications to the Bonus 3.
To reappoint Mr G E Tuppen as a director.
Plan as they may consider appropriate to take 4.
To reappoint Mr D C George as a director.
account of best practice and to adopt the Bonus 5.
To reappoint Mr A J Stewart as a director.
Plan as so modified and to do all such acts and things as they may consider appropriate to 6.
To reappoint Mrs S E Murray as a director.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to 12.
THAT the Enterprise Inns 2005 Long-Term Incentive authorise the directors to fix the remuneration of the Plan the LTIP referred to in the Chairman of the auditors.
Remuneration Committees letter to shareholders 8.
To approve the directors remuneration report for the dated 30 November 2004, a copy of the rules of year ended 30 September 2004. which are produced to this meeting and, for the 9.
THAT, in accordance with article 92 of the purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman, Companys articles of association, the maximum be and is approved and the directors be and are aggregate amount of fees payable, excluding any authorised to make such modifications to the LTIP as amounts payable under any other provision of its they may consider appropriate to take account of the articles of association, to all directors other than requirements of the UK Listing Authority and best any director who for the time being holds an practice and to adopt the LTIP as so modified and to executive office or employment with the Company do all such acts and things as they may consider or a subsidiary of the Company be and is increased appropriate to implement the LTIP.
THAT the Enterprise Inns 2005 Employee Share 10.
THAT the directors be and are generally and Option Scheme ESOS referred to in the Chairman unconditionally authorised in substitution for all of the Remuneration Committees letter to subsisting authorities to the extent unused pursuant shareholders dated 30 November 2004, a copy of to and in accordance with section 80 of the the rules of which are produced to this meeting and, Companies Act 1985 to allot relevant securities as for the purposes of identification, initialled by the defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal Chairman, be and is approved and the directors be value of 5,825,084.
This authority shall expire, and are authorised to do all such acts and things as unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by the they may consider necessary or desirable to Company in general meeting, 15 months after the implement the ESOS.
date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at 14.
THAT the Enterprise Inns 2005 Save as You Earn the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Scheme SAYE referred to in the Chairman of the Company in 2006, except that the Company may at any time before the expiry of this authority make Remuneration Committees letter to shareholders 70 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 Notice of Meeting dated 30 November 2004, a copy of the rules of overseas territory, the requirements of any which are produced to this meeting and, for the regulatory body or stock exchange or any other purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman, matter whatsoever: and be and is approved and the directors be and are b any such allotment and or sale, otherwise than authorised to do all such acts and things as they pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, of equity may consider necessary or desirable to implement securities for cash having, in the case of relevant the SAYE.
shares as defined in section 94 5 of that Act, 15.
THAT the Enterprise Inns 2005 Share Incentive Plan an aggregate nominal value or, in the case of SIP referred to in the Chairman of the other equity securities, giving the right to Remuneration Committees letter to shareholders subscribe for or convert into relevant shares dated 30 November 2004, a copy of the rules of having an aggregate nominal value not which are produced to this meeting and, for the exceeding in aggregate the sum of 873,763. purposes of identification, initialled by the Chairman, This authority shall expire, unless previously be and is approved and the directors be and are renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in authorised to do all such acts and things as they general meeting, at such time as the general may consider necessary or desirable to implement authority conferred on the directors by resolution 10 the SIP.
expires, except that the Company may at any time SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS before such expiry make any offer or agreement To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following which would or might require equity securities to be resolutions which will be proposed as special allotted or equity securities held as treasury shares resolutions: to be sold after such expiry and the directors may 16.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 10, the allot equity securities and or sell equity securities directors be and are empowered pursuant to section held as treasury shares in pursuance of such an offer 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity or agreement as if the power conferred by this securities as defined in section 94 2 of that Act for resolution had not expired.
cash pursuant to the general authority conferred on 17.
THAT the Company be and is generally and them by resolution 10 and or to sell equity unconditionally authorised to make market securities held as treasury shares for cash pursuant purchases as defined in section 163 3 of the to section 162D of that Act, in each case as if Companies Act 1985 of its ordinary shares of 5 section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to any such pence each provided that: allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be a the maximum number of ordinary shares of 5 limited to: pence each which may be acquired is a any such allotment and or sale of equity 52,390,857: securities in connection with an issue or offer by b the minimum price per share which may be paid way of rights or other pre-emptive issue or offer, for any such share excluding expenses is 5 open for acceptance for a period fixed by the pence: and directors, to holders of ordinary shares other c the maximum price per share which may be paid than the Company on the register on any record date fixed by the directors in proportion as for any such ordinary share of 5 pence excluding expenses is an amount equal to 105 per cent of nearly as may be to the respective number of the average of the middle-market quotations for ordinary shares deemed to be held by them, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements an ordinary share according to the Daily Official as the directors may deem necessary or List of London Stock Exchange plc for the five expedient in relation to fractional entitlements, business days immediately preceding the day on legal or practical problems arising in any which the contract to purchase is made.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 71 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2003 71 Notice of Meeting This authority shall expire, unless previously authority if any under which it is signed, or a renewed, revoked or varied by the Company in notarially certified copy of such authority, to the general meeting, 15 months after the date of the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, The Pavilions, passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 3FA: or b a CREST conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Proxy Instruction as set out in paragraph 4 below : Company in 2006, except that the Company may, at or c an online proxy appointment at any time before the expiry of this authority, enter www.
com uk etp epa fop you will into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which need your unique PIN and Shareholder Reference would or might be executed wholly or partly after Number printed on the Form of Proxy, in each case such expiry and purchase ordinary shares in so that it is received no later than 11.00 a. m. on accordance with such contract as if the authority 18 January 2005. conferred by this resolution had not expired.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or The directors believe that the proposals in proxies through the CREST electronic proxy resolutions 1 to 17 are in the best interests of appointment service may do so for the Annual shareholders as a whole and they unanimously General Meeting and any adjournment s of the recommend that you vote in favour of all the meeting by using the procedures described in the resolutions.
The directors intend to do so in respect CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other of their own beneficial interests.
CREST sponsored members and those CREST On behalf of the Board Registered office: members who have appointed a voting service 3 Monkspath Hall Road provider s should refer to their CREST sponsor or D C George Solihull voting service provider s, who will be able to take Company Secretary West Midlands, B90 4SJ the appropriate action on their behalf.
30 November 2004 Registered in In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made England and Wales using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate No.
2562808 CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must Notes be properly authenticated in accordance with 1.
A shareholder of the Company who is entitled to CRESTCo Limiteds specifications and must contain attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting may the information required for such instructions, as appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, described in the CREST Manual.
The message, vote instead of him.
A proxy does not need to be a regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment shareholder of the Company.
of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given 2.
A form of proxy for use in connection with the to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be Annual General Meeting is enclosed with the valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the document of which this notice forms part.
If you do Companys agent ID 3RA50 by the latest time s for not have a form of proxy and believe that you receipt of proxy appointments set out in paragraph 3 should, please contact the Companys registrars, above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be Computershare Investor Services PLC, on 0870 702 taken to be the time as determined by the 0003 or at Computershare Investor Services PLC, timestamp applied to the message by the CREST P. O.
Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, Applications Host from which the Companys agent BS99 7NH.
Completion and return of a form of proxy is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST will not preclude a shareholder from attending and in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time voting at the Annual General Meeting.
any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the 3.
To appoint a proxy or proxies shareholders must appointee through other means.
complete: a a form of proxy, sign it and return it, together with the power of attorney or other CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 72 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 Notice of Meeting sponsors or voting service providers should note that Bonus Plan, the LTIP, the ESOS, the SAYE and the SIP CRESTCo Limited does not make available special will also be available for inspection at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna, Mitre House, procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
160 Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4DD during Normal system timings and limitations will therefore normal business hours on any weekday excluding apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays until the Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST end of the Annual General Meeting.
member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as is necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered on the Companys share register at 6.00 p. m. on 18 January 2005 shall be entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting and vote in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that time.
Changes to entries on the share register after 6.00 p. m. on 18 January 2005 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Copies of the directors service contracts, the directors remuneration report, the biographical information of the directors seeking reappointment, the Bonus Plan, the LTIP, the ESOS, the SAYE, the SIP and the register of directors interests are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours on any weekday excluding Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays until the end of the Annual General Meeting and will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the Annual General Meeting.
The Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2004 73
