Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 99 Supplementary shareholder information Register analysis Shareholder analysis as at 14 February 2005.
By selecting Share price under the Investors section of the website, shareholders can check the value of their shareholding online or review share charts illustrating annual share price performance trends.
Shareholders within the UK can also use Ceefax, Teletext and the FT Cityline service Telephone: 0906 846 3545 calls charged at premium rate.
The share price is also listed in most daily national newspapers.
05 Electronic communications If you would prefer not to receive a paper copy of the Annual Report, Exel offers shareholders the opportunity to receive notication via e-mail when a Company publication such as the latest Annual Interim Report or notice of a shareholder meeting is released on the Exel website.
To take advantage of this you will need to register for the Shareview service operated by Lloyds TSB, our Registrar.
co. uk, click Register now and follow the online instructions.
Shareholder enquiries Lloyds TSB Registrars hold the Companys share register.
Any enquiries relating to the administration of shareholdings in Exel plc, such as dividend payment instructions or a change of address should be notied direct to the Registrar.
Your correspondence should refer to Exel plc and the registered name and address of the shareholder.
The frequently asked questions section of the Exel website, www.
com, also aims to answer some common shareholder queries click on Investors then Shareholder services.
Shareholder services Shareholders can benefit from a range of additional services including direct payment of dividends into a chosen bank account, payment of dividends in foreign currencies and a dividend re-investment plan which enables shareholders to use the whole of their cash dividends to buy additional Exel shares in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details of these services can be obtained from the Registrar.
Financial calendar 2005 Preliminary announcement of 2004 results and final dividend Friday 4 March Annual Report posted Tuesday 29 March Ex-dividend date Wednesday 13 April Dividend record date Friday 15 April Last date for shareholders to elect for DRIP Friday 15 April Annual General Meeting Thursday 28 April Payment of 2004 final dividend Monday 9 May Announcement of 2005 interim results and dividend Thursday 28 July Payment of 2005 interim dividend October Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Thursday 28 April 2005 at: The Congress Centre 28 Great Russell Street London WC1B 3LS Shareholders will be asked to approve the Directors remuneration report, the election of John Pattullo and re-elections of John Coghlan, Jean-Claude Guez and Nigel Rich to the Board of Directors, the new Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 and the new Share Matching Plan 2005.
Other resolutions include proposals to renew, for a further year, the Directors general authority to allot relevant securities of the Company, to allot equity securities for cash and to renew the authority for the Company to buy back its own ordinary shares.
No such purchase was made during 2004.
If approved, the authorities will expire at the end of the 2006 AGM.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 99 Reference Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 100 Share dealing service Company Secretary The Companys brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove, provide Doug Evans shareholders with a low cost way of buying and selling Exel shares by post.
Director of Investor Relations Duncan Magrath For further information and to obtain the necessary forms please contact: Registered ofce Ocean House JPMorgan Cazenove The Ring Corporate Dealing Department Bracknell Postal Dealing Service Berkshire RG12 1AN 20 Moorgate Telephone: 44 0 1344 302000 London EC2R 6DA Telephone: 44 0 207 155 5155 Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars Shareholders can also take advantage of the dealing service The Causeway operated by Lloyds TSB Registrars by logging on to Worthing www.
co. uk dealing for internet dealing, West Sussex BN99 6DA or by calling 0870 850 0852 for telephone dealing.
Exel shareholder helpline: Merger Telephone: 0870 600 3970 from within the UK Ocean Group plc now Exel plc and former Exel plc or 44 0 121 415 7047 from outside the UK previously NFC plc merged in May 2000 to form Exel plc.
Textphone: 0870 600 3950 from within the UK Charitable donations Auditors The Exel Foundation is a charitable trust supported by the Ernst & Young LLP Company, which helps disadvantaged children and young 1 More London Place people.
Shareholders wishing to donate cash shares to the London SE1 2AF Exel Foundation, or to receive details of its matched giving programme, should contact Community Affairs.
Stockbrokers Telephone: 44 0 1234 833090 JPMorgan Cazenove 20 Moorgate Institutional investors London EC2R 6DA Institutional investors can make enquiries by using the e-mail link on the Companys website or by telephone.
UBS Telephone: 44 0 1344 744409 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Unsolicited mail The law states that the Company must make its register Current and potential investors are encouraged to visit the Investors of members available to other organisations and, as a section of our website at http: www.
com exel home investors shareholderservices consequence, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from third party organisations.
Shareholders wishing to limit the amount of such mail can write to: Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website at www.
com The Mailing Preference Service FREEPOST 29 LON20771 London W1E 0ZT Telephone: 0845 703 4599 Facsimile: 44 0 207 323 4226 T o register online visit www.
uk Exel plc 100 Annual Report 2004 Exel Cover Bk Prf 16 3 2005 4:15 pm Page 2 www.
com In October 2004, we relaunched our global website, www.
The aim was to enhance 6.2% 13% 75% content, strengthen brand consistency, refresh design and improve navigation.
The primary The airfreight market is predicted Exels customers expect outsourcing Exel works with over 75% driver was the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 section 21 December 1999, legislation to grow 6.2% per annum over to increase 13% in the next of the worlds top 250 nonthe next 20 years.
requiring that all websites be accessible to the visually impaired.
Some of the many accessible Source: Boeing Air Cargo Forecast 2004-2024.
Source: Exels global customer survey conducted by Source: Business Week top 250 global companies 2004.
MORI in May 2004. and enhanced tools are demonstrated below: 300bn Customers Industries This area of the site provides We estimate the supply chain We work with: details on our sector specialisms market is valued at 300bn 19 of the top 20 consumer goods companies with easy access to all relevant $550bn globally and expect 7 of the top 13 global retailers internal links across the site.
28 of the top 30 global technology manufacturers 7 of the top 8 automotive companies 17 of the top 20 healthcare companies 7 of the top 10 chemical companies Source: Business Week top 250 global companies 2004.
Our markets We believe the supply chain offers us real opportunities for growth and development Delivering the supply chain needs of our customers Wherever and however our customers need Solutions Investors across all our sectors and regions.
Our business comprises both freight management and contract our support, we have the answers to their supply chain problems.
We offer a wide range of services For further details on the solutions Enhancements to the Investors logistics and increasingly our customers see the value of, and benefit from, integrated logistics that to suit market and sector needs.
Some of our services are highlighted below.
and core services we offer, visitors area include the option to view can view this information in share prices in a graph as well incorporate both.
Within this section, as in a table.
The regulatory news we have extensively used the feed includes a comprehensive Market opportunities Over the Growth prospects To date, Exel Our customers Today, our customers related links boxes to ease search function by keyword, date past decade, more and more has grown through a combination include 75% of the largest nonnavigation and consistent and category.
The blue financial formatting of content and companies have chosen to focus of organic growth and acquisitions.
financial companies in the world, news box within the navigation In-plant logistics Customs broking Inbound Consultancy Warehousing Outbound After-sales uniformed templates for clarity.
panel highlights the latest financial on core competencies and outsource Over the next three years, while there as defined by Business Weeks transport transport news releases.
the rest of their business, including will be opportunities for selected bolttop 250 global companies 2004.
Our teams deliver Our regulatory Whether by air, With an experienced Exel is the worlds We provide Our innovative their supply chains, to specialists like on acquisitions, we will concentrate Our global reach, skilled people, and store all types knowledge and sea or road, we international largest warehouse integrated transport supply chain Exel.
The global business environment on organic growth.
This will come market knowledge, consistent of raw materials local expertise combine our freight management team, logistics provider.
services, often by solutions move has been impacted by globalisation, from the underlying growth of our processes and innovative solutions from their point enable us to work services and webwe offer our We offer both road and rail, either beyond traditional of origin.
Using a with customs enabled tracking competition, technology, regulation markets, the take-up of our integrated make us the partner of choice for customers best dedicated and on a stand-alone logistics and Home combination of air, authorities to ease to move items practice solutions shared facilities to basis or as part of transport services.
We have logistics services and the strengthening many leading companies on a A number of accessible enhancements were made to sea or roadfreight the movement effectively and to their supply store our customers a total solution.
We add value to developed a market-leading position of our customer relationships.
Our global, regional and local scale.
the home page including improvements to download we transport of goods across efficiently.
We also These services finished products by adapting to these changes.
Our strategy is to increase Exels value time, updating of photography and the removal of flash raw materials national borders.
extensive global have developed provide a range of optimise cost and the products on downloads across the site.
There is also a scrolling news flexibility has enabled us to move to customers by providing additional to the point We offer a complete coverage, multiexpertise in project value-added services time as products the store shelf ticker to keep visitors up-to-date with the latest news of manufacture.
menu of broking modal capabilities, management and to reduce costs and move from by providing with the times and keep on meeting services and working with them from Exel.
We also support services as customs a range of timeIT solutions, backed improve inventory warehouse to final services such as our customers changing needs.
our customers management is definite transport by strong experience management.
Often in-store logistics, assembly operations central to our solutions and are in consultancy and Warehousing we use bespoke order processing, Contract logistics Contract logistics includes warehousing and ground-based distribution, separately and in combination.
by ensuring the service offering well positioned design and have a services support technology, such call centre These services are charged in two ways over the life of the contract: open book with costs passed on to the customer timely delivery of in every market to support our proven track record inbound logistics, as Exels managed management, raw materials to of operation.
customers plus a management fee usually linked to performance, or closed book with an inclusive price agreed upfront linked of successful distribution and transport service, to home delivery, prevent production throughout our start-ups.
after-market services assess a customers after-sales set up to volume and mix.
Hybrid contracts use both types of fee, which is of mutual benefit, particularly when using campus delays, often from network of locations and can ensure transport network and installation and and shared-user solutions.
Additional value share arrangements may also be included within the contract structure supplier parks across more than maximum flexibility in its entirety and the return of faulty to encourage both parties to work together to deliver cost savings and other areas of value such as lower inventories.
in sub-assembly, provide cost or damaged items.
other product Freight management We do not own any planes or ships, but we are a world leader in the co-ordination and customisation.
movement of air, ground and sea freight.
Freight management is the movement of customers products, using the Contact us Regions most efficient mode of transport, whether air, sea, rail or road, whilst meeting customers expectations on delivery Whether visitors enquiries are Exel s global network is time and cost.
Customers buy freight capacity from us as our rates are generally cheaper than those quoted direct.
new business, investor or media demonstrated within the We are able to offer cheaper rates by consolidating the shipments of different customers to the same destination related, we have made contacting Regions section of the site.
For and delivering this to the carrier as a single shipment.
Rates charged to customers and margins generated vary according Registrations Exel simpler.
The contact us forms accessibility, we have used a clear Visitors are encouraged to register enable visitors to e-mail their and user-friendly interactive map to supply and demand which is seasonal.
In addition, carriers may increase rates to reflect increases in their costs, to receive regular updates from Exel, enquiries directly to the relevant with the option to use a dropsuch as fuel.
In general, price and commercial terms with customers and suppliers are less committed in freight including the latest news releases department or function in Exel.
down menu if visitors prefer.
management than in contract logistics.
Additional services are often added to the basic forwarding service, for example, and case studies.
To make the On the country sites, green customs broking which enhances seamless transfer of cargos across borders.
Our sophisticated IT systems enable process more accessible, the loglanguages boxes indicate to in details sit on the left navigation us to track products at every step of the journey.
the visitor the option to switch panel where visitors can also amend between languages.
Integrated logistics Integrating our contract logistics and freight management services enables us to provide customers with a one-stop supply chain shop.
This is a real area of growth for Exel.
We are unique in that we have the geographical presence and operational scale to meet customer demand for an end-to-end supply chain around the world.
For more on our logistics solutions and core services visit in collaboration with Ammunition.
com exel home solutions This publication was printed on Skye Coated Extra Matt which is certified Totally Chlorine Free TCF and Nordic Swan approved, and Lumi Silk which is certified Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and is in accordance with ISO 14001.
All paper was acquired from suppliers operating sustainable forest reserves, and using a majority of forest and sawmill waste.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 Exel Cover Bk Prf 15 3 2005 5:13 pm Page 1 Head Office Exel plc Exel plc Annual Report 2004 Ocean House, The Ring Bracknell RG12 1AN Contents Turnover Basic earnings United Kingdom bn % per share pence % Telephone 44 0 1344 302000 25 18 Increase Increase in in turnover earnings per share Exel explained 01 Global Freight Management Americas Europe, Middle East and Africa Asia Pacific Turnover from Underlying earnings At a glance, our 00 Business at a glance continuing per share before Exel Exel Exel Exel business and 02 Market sectors operations and exceptional items, 4120 Point Eden Way, Suite 200 570 Polaris Parkway Solstice House 81 ALPS Avenue acquisitions was goodwill and the markets 04 The way forward Hayward, Westerville 251 Midsummer Boulevard Singapore 498803 up 25% to 6.3bn net return on California, CA 94545 Ohio, OH 43082 Milton Keynes MK9 1EQ Telephone 65 6318 6388 08 Exel in action pension schemes United States United States United Kingdom was up 18% Telephone 1 510 731 3333 Telephone 1 614 865 8500 Telephone 44 0 1908 244000 2003 2004 2003 2004 to 40.3p Performance 02 How our 14 Highlights Profit before tax Dividend per m share pence % % business has 15 Group performance performed 20 Europe, Middle East & Africa 15 18 22 Americas Increase in profit Increase in 24 Asia Pacific before tax dividend per 26 Environmental Profit before tax, share goodwill, exceptional The total dividend 27 Financial risk management items and net return per share for the and IFRS on pension schemes year was up 18% was up 15% at 29.2p at 170.2m 2003 2004 2003 2004 Governance 03 Who runs our 30 Board of Directors business and how 32 Directors report Exel explained Its a high-speed world and Exel keeps 33 Corporate governance it moving.
People want things quicker than ever before, 38 Directors remuneration report tomorrows products today.
50 Corporate responsibility 54 Corporate governance summary Exel always delivers, which is why we are the number 56 Directors responsibilities one provider of supply chain management services.
We bring the latest technology to homes and offices, Financials 04 food and clothes to shops, fuel to forecourts, components 2004 financial 57 Auditors report to manufacturers, medical supplies to hospitals and much, statements 58 Group profit and loss account 62 Group balance sheet much more.
Around 111,000 Exel people in over 64 Accounting policies 135 countries provide our customers with innovative 66 Notes to the financial and dynamic supply chain solutions on a daily basis.
statements 95 Group five year record Exels unique blend of contract logistics and freight management services is the product of our skilled people, 05 Reference local knowledge, global expertise and sophisticated 96 Glossary of supply chain terms Shareholder 99 Supplementary shareholder systems.
These qualities enable us to deliver value information information across the entire supply chain.
com In order to reflect more clearly the underlying operating performance of the business, the charts and figures above for operating profit, profit before tax and earnings per share are shown before goodwill, exceptional items and net return on pension schemes.
A reconciliation of these figures to www.
com the equivalent FRS 3 numbers is included in the Group profit and loss account or note 8 to the financial statements on pages 58 and 74 respectively of this report.
The percentages above are calculated using unrounded figures at actual exchange rates.
