Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 15 3 2005 5:10 pm Page 64 Accounting policies A summary of the more important accounting policies Dened benefit schemes are funded in separate trustee adopted by the Group is set out below.
The policies are administered funds, with the assets of the schemes held consistent with the previous year.
separately from those of the Group.
Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value, and liabilities are measured on Basis of accounting an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and The financial statements are prepared under the going discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return concern concept and the historical cost convention and are on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
term to the scheme liabilities.
Full actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance Basis of consolidation sheet date.
The resulting dened benefit asset or liability, The group financial statements consolidate the results and net of the related deferred tax, is presented separately after financial position of the Company and its subsidiary other net assets on the face of the balance sheet.
undertakings and include, using the equity method of accounting, the Groups share of associated and joint venture For dened contribution schemes the amount charged to undertakings, the financial statements for all of which are the profit and loss account in respect of pension cost is the made up to 31 December.
Their results are included for the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between period during which they are members of the Group.
contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the Revenue recognition balance sheet.
Turnover is recognised based on the fair value of the right to consideration for the sale of services and goods to third The Group does not maintain any other post-retirement parties.
For the sale of services, turnover is determined by benets.
the percentage of the total service chargeable to customers completed by the balance sheet date.
Turnover excludes Goodwill value added tax and equivalent taxes, duty and other Purchased goodwill is capitalised and amortised by equal disbursements made on behalf of customers and interannual instalments through the profit and loss account over company transactions.
its estimated life of up to 20 years.
The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full Logistics contracts year after an acquisition and at other times if circumstances Under certain logistics contracts the Group purchases goods indicate that it may not be recoverable.
The Groups policy from third parties as agent for its customers and sells them up to 1 January 1998 was to eliminate goodwill arising on to those customers at cost.
The Group receives income for acquisitions against reserves.
Under the provisions of FRS 10 handling and storing the goods but as the sale and purchase such goodwill will remain written off to reserves until disposal of the goods have no impact on operating profit they are or termination of the previously acquired business, when the excluded from turnover and operating charges.
Stocks, profit or loss on the disposal or termination will be calculated debtors and creditors relating to such transactions are after charging the gross amount of any such goodwill.
included in the group balance sheet.
Tangible xed assets and depreciation Employee share schemes Fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation and provision Executive share options granted at the market price of the for impairment.
Cost includes interest on the funding of Companys shares at the date of the grant do not attract a major assets until the construction of the asset is complete.
For those awards that are granted The Groups minimum unavoidable cost in relation to landll at a discount to the market price at the date of the grant, the site restoration is capitalised as a xed asset.
discount is charged to the profit and loss account based on an assessment of the probability of the performance conditions Depreciation of tangible xed assets excluding freehold and being met.
The charge is allocated on a straight line basis long leasehold land and assets in course of construction, over the performance period of the relevant scheme.
which are not depreciated is charged evenly over their estimated useful lives as follows: The Group has taken advantage of the exemption in UITF 17 from applying that Abstract to Inland Revenue approved Freehold and long leasehold buildings 35 to 50 years.
SAYE schemes or equivalent overseas schemes.
Short leasehold land and buildings over the life of the lease.
Retirement benets Landll sites over the operational The Group maintains UK and overseas dened benefit life of the site.
pension schemes for the funding of retirement benets for Plant and equipment 2 to 20 years.
scheme members during their working lives in order to pay benets to them after retirement and to their dependants Assets that are not expected to be held for the whole of their after their death.
useful lives are written down to estimated residual values at disposal.
For dened benefit schemes the amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs and any gains and losses Disposals of land and buildings are taken into account when on settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part a binding contract to sell has been entered into prior to the of staff costs.
Past service costs are charged to operating profit balance sheet date, provided that the disposal has been immediately to the extent that the benets have vested.
If the completed before the financial statements are approved.
benets have not vested immediately, the costs are recognised by equal annual instalments over the period until vesting The carrying values of tangible xed assets are reviewed for occurs.
The interest cost and the expected return on assets impairment if circumstances indicate that they may not be are included as other finance income.
losses net of deferred tax are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Exel plc 64 Annual Report 2004 Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 65 Leased assets Foreign currency translation Assets held under finance leases are capitalised at fair value All transactions denominated in foreign currencies are and treated as tangible xed assets.
Depreciation is charged translated at the rate of exchange on the day the transaction over the shorter of the lease period or the useful life of the occurs or at the contracted rate if the transaction is covered asset.
The deemed capital element of future rentals is by forward foreign currency contracts.
Assets and liabilities included in borrowings.
Deemed interest, calculated on the denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the reducing balance method, is charged as interest payable over exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date or if the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals are charged appropriate at a forward foreign currency contract rate.
against operating profit as incurred.
Exchange differences arising on foreign currency transactions are included in the profit and loss account.
Investments The Groups investment in associated undertakings and joint The results and cash ows of overseas subsidiary and ventures is its interest in their net assets plus goodwill and associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated loans.
Other investments are stated at cost less provision at average rates of exchange for the year.
The assets and for impairment.
liabilities of subsidiary undertakings and the investments in associated undertakings and joint ventures are translated at Investment in own shares rates ruling on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences Investments in own shares, held through various trusts, arising on translation of the net investment in overseas are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost subsidiary and associated undertakings and joint ventures in accordance with UITF 38. are dealt with through reserves, together with exchange 04 differences on the translation of foreign currency borrowings Stocks and forward foreign currency contracts used to hedge Stocks, principally raw materials and consumables, are stated such investments.
at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes, where appropriate, relevant overheads.
Derivatives and other financial instruments The Group uses instruments to hedge the risks associated Uninsured losses with interest rates, foreign currency cash ows, and overseas The Group maintains insurance policies with significant net assets.
Financial instruments, principally forward foreign excesses, below which claims are borne by the Group.
currency contracts, are stated at fair value at the balance Full provision is made for the estimated costs of claims sheet date.
Gains or losses on hedges are recognised in the or losses arising from past events falling outside the limits period to which they relate.
of these policies, based on advice from the Groups external insurance advisers.
Currency derivatives taken out to hedge cash ows are matched to the cash ows and are included in the profit Onerous lease contracts and loss account.
Provision is made for onerous lease contracts including property leases surplus to requirements where the Gains and losses on financial instruments used to hedge obligations under the contracts exceed the economic overseas net assets, together with the related tax where benets expected to be received under them.
applicable, are taken to reserves and included in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The interest Deferred taxation element of forward foreign currency contracts is included in Deferred taxation is provided in full on all timing differences net interest.
which have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where an event has occurred that results in an Interest rate hedges primarily interest rate swaps and obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the forward rate agreements are related to a financial asset future, except that: or liability and change the character of the interest rate by converting a variable rate to a xed rate or vice versa.
Interest a no provision is made in respect of the unremitted earnings rate swaps are not revalued to fair value or shown on the of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings group balance sheet at the year end, except for FRS 13 and joint ventures unless dividends have been accrued disclosures note 18.
The results of interest rate hedges are as receivable: and released to the profit and loss account over the life of the hedging instrument.
If they are terminated early, the gain b no provision is made where xed assets are sold and it is or loss is taken to the profit and loss account.
more likely than not that the resulting taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Deferred tax is provided at the rates expected to apply in the accounting periods in which the underlying timing differences are expected to reverse.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 65 Financials
