Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 96 Glossary of supply chain terms 3PL or third-party logistics provider: Consolidation The combination of Distribution Centre DC a supplier of logistics services that two or more consignments to create A facility that accepts inbound primarily uses its own assets and a more economical freight solution.
consignments of raw materials, resources.
components or nished goods, divides Consolidation Centre A warehouse and then recombines them into 4PL or fourth-party logistics provider: in which goods are packaged into outbound shipments.
Many DCs also a supplier of supply chain co-ordination larger units for onward distribution.
contain specialised handling storage and management services that generally Container A sealed, reusable metal equipment and IT systems and serve does not own or operate the underlying box for the shipping of goods by sea as warehouses.
lead logistics provider LLP, it may also Drop shipment The direct shipment of Contract logistics The process of co-ordinate and integrate the services goods from a manufacturer to a dealer outsourcing product ow management, of others with complementary or or consumer, bypassing the wholesaler.
storage and related information supporting capabilities.
End-to-end The complete cycle of transfer services, usually under longAdded-value processes services logistics activity.
End-to-end supply term contract, with the objective of Complementary processes or services chain management comprises the increasing efficiency and control.
applied to a product or service to sourcing and transport of goods from Control Tower Bespoke packages of increase its value to internal or external point of origin to final customer information services used to manage customers.
and control supply chain activities Aftermarket Activities completed End-of-life Goods that have reached on behalf of customers and suppliers.
after the sales process, such as the the end of their shelf life: can include Also known as Logistics Control replacement and servicing of parts: obsolete items or items that cannot Tower LCT.
particularly prevalent in the automotive be repaired.
Cross-dock docking The direct ow industry.
Free Trade Zone FTZ A commercialor of goods from receipt to shipping, Airfreight The transport of goods industrial area near a port of entry bypassing storage.
Used to reduce costs by air.
where merchandise and raw material and lead-times for fast-moving and imports are not subject to customs Backstage areas Behind-the-scenes perishable goods.
areas of stores and shops where stock Customs broking The handling of is held and logistics support and services Freight forwarder A person or company customs formalities around the import are managed.
involved in the collection, consolidation, and export of goods on behalf of shipping and distribution of goods from Bonded warehouse A facility or importers.
Typically, freight consolidation centre that is authorised Demand chain The reverse of the forwarders clear freight through customs, by customs to store goods.
The payment supply chain, when the processes prepare documents and arrange of duties and taxes are only payable employed switch from push to pull.
once the goods are removed.
The demand chain is driven by Freight management The management Box car A closed freight car.
consumers rather than manufacturers of third-party carriers to ensure the of goods.
Bulk container A large container swift, safe and cost-efficient delivery designed to carry bulk cargo.
Dispatch The release of a container of shipments, often involving the to a carrier or amounts paid to a carrier Campus A site where multiple integration of a range of services.
to charter the transport of goods.
distribution centres share resources Freight Transport Association such as employees and transport to Distribution The process of storing UK trade association serving the maximise time and cost efficiencies.
and transporting nished goods between transport interests of companies See also Distribution Centre: Multi-user.
the end of the production line and the moving goods by air, rail, road and sea.
Consignment One or more items that Full-truck-load FTL Where goods a carrier has accepted for shipment being shipped occupy a complete truck.
Exel plc 96 Annual Report 2004 Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 97 Garments on hangers Standard International inbound logistics Logistics service provider LSP containers tted with bars and ropes supply chain See inbound logistics.
An organisation that offers 3PL or to keep the clothes neat so they can 4PL services.
Inventory Stocks of raw materials, be put straight on to shop shelves.
components, work in progress, nished Logistics Control Tower LCT Globalisation The internationalisation goods and other supplies.
of trade, by which domestic economies Just-in-time Activities, including Logistics outsourcing become inter-dependent.
deliveries, completed at the right time See outsourcing.
Home delivery The transportation of in order to meet production and client Multi-modal Shipping that includes goods to customers locations of choice schedules.
These techniques help at least two modes of transport.
including workplaces : can also refer companies improve their return on Multi-user Typically, a storage site to order fullment.
Most e-commerce investment by reducing in-process used by more than one manufacturer sales involve home delivery.
inventory and its associated cost.
International Air Transport Kerbside Delivery to and or collection National Distribution Centre NDC Association IATA Trade association from the roadside.
serving airlines, governments, Kitting The assembly of components Origin services Support added-value passengers, shippers and travel agents.
functions offered at the point of origin Inbound logistics The movement Last 50 yards mile The transfer of merchandise or materials.
Can include of raw materials and components of goods from the rear of the delivery buying, purchase order management, from suppliers vendors to production vehicle to the store shelf.
vendor compliance, quality inspection, processes and storage facilities.
05 Lead logistics provider partner document management, container International inbound logistics is the LLP See 4PL.
optimisation, pick-and-pack, pallet management of the international loading, customs processing and Less-than-truckload LTL inbound supply chain on behalf consolidation.
A shipment that does not ll of retailers.
 The Logistics The process of planning, Outsourcing The sub-contracting to sourcing and transport of goods from implementing and controlling the external companies of tasks considered their point of origin manufacture efficient and cost-effective ow and to be outside an organisations core through to the manufacturing facility.
storage of raw materials, in-process competence.
Logistics outsourcing In-store logistics The provision of stocks, nished goods and related is one of the most popular forms.
pre-retailing services within shops, information from the point of origin to Pallet A at wooden tray that is often in backstage areas.
Services can the point of consumption for customers.
loaded by a fork-lift truck, used for include stock replenishment, storage Put more simply, it is the science and transporting goods.
art of ensuring that the right products Pick-and-pack The process by which Integrated logistics supply chain reach the right place in the right goods are picked against customers The management of multiple supply quantity at the right time in order to orders and then packed for onward chain components as a single entity on satisfy consumer demand.
This practice encompasses warehousing, transport, can result in a more efficient supply Pre-retailing The process of preparing added-value pre-retailing services chain and lower costs.
merchandise in the DC for transfer to and IT solutions and covers inbound, and display at the retail outlet.
Can Inter-modal The co-ordinated outbound, internal, international include the removal of transit packaging, movement of freight using different and reverse product ows.
transfer of garments from boxed to methods of transport, which is often Logistics re-engineering The study hanging format, ticketing, tagging and a combination of truck and rail.
and re-design of logistics processes assembly of merchandise into storeto achieve a significant improvement oor or store-shelf order.
Pre-shipping Activities completed before goods are transported by sea.
Exel plc Annual Report 2004 97 Reference Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 98 Glossary of supply chain terms continued Pull replenishment The customerService logistics Logistics activities Time-definite A freight or delivery driven ow of materials and merchandise relating to the management of parts service that species or guarantees through the supply chain.
See also to and from customers.
Track-and-trace The process for Railfreight The transport of goods recording the progress of a consignment Solution sets Packages of core services by rail.
through the supply chain, usually in or that cover multiple supply chain activities.
near real-time, in order to track its status Roadfreight The transport of goods Solution sets are based on standardised or trace its movements.
processes and pre-congured IT products.
Control Tower systems function as Real-time In the present.
A real-time Sourcing The practice of locating and a single point of control, delivering system that enables an immediate procuring goods and products.
centralised command of the supply response to external events.
Often Sub-assembly The processes for chain with full visibility.
used in relation to tracking: see also putting together individual units to Transload The transfer of 40ft track-and-trace.
t with other components to make container loads into truck-driven Roadside See kerbside.
53ft containers to reduce costs per Reverse logistics The process of Supply chain A linked set of resources unit and achieve faster and more collecting, handling and transporting and processes that begins with the accurate deliveries.
used, damaged, unwanted or end-ofsourcing of raw materials and ends Truckload FTL and LTL above.
life goods and or packaging for disposal, with the delivery of merchandise to Upstream See reverse logistics.
Can also refer to the final customer.
It covers vendors, the return of re-usable transit equipment manufacturing facilities, logistics service Unit cost The total cost of producing pallets, containers etc.
to a point providers, internal distribution centres, a single unit.
further up the supply chain i. e. upstream.
distributors, wholesalers and other Value-added services See addedintermediaries.
RFID smart labels RFID is radio value services.
frequency identication, a system that Supply chain management The Vendor consolidation The process uses radio signals to locate and identify co-ordinated control of the supply for managing various vendors in order merchandise, batched products or chain, from the acquisition of raw to consolidate multiple LTL shipments transportation assets tted with special materials from vendors through their within a consignment to reduce costs electronic tags.
The tags also known transformation into nished goods and improve delivery efficiency.
as smart labels or intelligent tags to the delivery of merchandise to the Vendors The sellers of products enable the automatic track-and-trace final customer.
It involves end-to-end and services.
of merchandise assets throughout the information sharing, planning, resource Visibility The ability to view detailed supply chain.
RFID can help to reduce synchronisation and performance information about supply chain administration, improve productivity, measurement.
management processes, typically optimise the use of warehousing space TEU or 20-foot equivalent unit: the in real or near real-time.
and increase accuracy and control.
standard size of a seafreight container.
Warehouse warehousing Routing The process for arranging  The storage See distribution centre.
the course of direction of goods of goods within a certain temperature for transport.
range as required by the product type, Seafreight The transport of goods e. g. chilled and frozen.
