Exel 032 100 Bk Prf 10 3 2005 3:21 pm Page 56 Corporate governance summary continued Combined Code provision Comment Page The Audit Committee, comprising three independent non-executive Directors, meets at least three C. 3.1 Compliant 35 times a year and met on three occasions during 2004.
Dennis Millard, Chairman of the Audit Committee, is Group Finance Director for Cookson Group plc and therefore has recent and relevant financial experience.
The main role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference and these C. 3.2 Compliant 35 include all the requirements set out in the Code.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have recently been reviewed and are available C. 3.3 Compliant 35 on the Companys website.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are described in the corporate governance report.
The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, C. 3.4 Compliant 36 raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of internal audit activities.
C. 3.5 Compliant 36 The Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, C. 3.6 Compliant 35 reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
A statement on how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded is included in the C. 3.7 Compliant 35 corporate governance report.
If applicable, the Chairman would ensure that the views of major shareholders were communicated to the D. 1.1 Compliant 37 Board as a whole.
Non-executive Directors are offered the opportunity to meet major shareholders and the Senior Independent Director has attended meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The corporate governance report sets out the steps taken by the Board to ensure that Directors D. 1.2 Compliant 37 develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
At the 2005 AGM, the Company will count all proxy votes and, unless a poll is called, will provide the D. 2.1 Compliant 37 level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the balance for and against the resolution and the number of abstentions, after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The Company uses its Registrars, who have a proven and established procedure, to ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the 2005 AGM on each substantially separate issue D. 2.2 Compliant Notice of and there will be a resolution to receive the Annual Report and Accounts for 2004.
Meeting The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available D. 2.3 Compliant 37 to answer questions at the 2005 AGM and all Directors will attend.
The Notice of Meeting for the 2005 AGM was sent to shareholders at least 20 working D. 2.4 Compliant 37 days before the meeting.
Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the Auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare a financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit of the Group for the financial year and b a Directors remuneration report.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements on pages 58 to 94, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, which have been consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them both to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors, having prepared the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report, have requested the Auditors to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
