notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant Company will be held at 11 a. m. on 5 May 2004 at the offices of securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot Davenport Lyons, Solicitors, 1 Old Burlington Street, LONDON W1S relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if 3NL for the following purposes: the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Ordinary Business 7 THAT: the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant 1 To receive and adopt the audited accounts and the report to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities of the Directors and of the auditors for the financial year ended within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash pursuant 31 January 2004. to the authority conferred by resolution 6 above as if Section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment such power being 2 To approve the Directors' Remuneration Report for the financial year limited to: ended 31 January 2004. i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue 3 To re-elect Neil Williams who is required to retire from the office of in favour of holders of ordinary shares pro rata to their then existing Director by rotation in accordance with the provisions of the Articles shareholdings: and or of Association of the Company, as a Director of the Company.
ii the allotment otherwise than under sub-paragraph i above of 4 To declare a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 January equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 47,679 2004 at the rate of 2.25p per ordinary share payable on 6 July 2004 representing 5% of the issued share capital for the time being to shareholders registered on 19 March 2004. and shall expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of 5 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the the Company after the passing of this Resolution SAVE THAT the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such Special Business expiry in pursuance of such an offer or agreement and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such an offer or To consider and, if thought fit, pass resolutions 6 and 7 below as Special agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Resolutions of the Company: 6 THAT: the Directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to By order of the Board allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of Roy Naismith 296,424 representing the authorised, unissued share capital of the Secretary Company PROVIDED THAT this authority shall expire on the date of 1 Old Burlington Street, the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing London W1S 3NL of this Resolution SAVE THAT the Company may before such expiry 8 March 2004 Note The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
A member is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and on a poll, vote instead of the member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
52 annual report 2004 Produced by Perceptions 01284 828300 annual report 2004
