45 Statement of directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the report of the auditor set out on page 46, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditor in relation to the financial statements.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company and the group will continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and of the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group 4 Securicor plc website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
46 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Independent auditors report to the members of Group 4 Securicor plc We have audited the financial statements on pages 47 to 86.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the directors Remuneration Report the auditable part.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors Remuneration Report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, and United Kingdom Auditing Standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the company and other members of the group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Report, the Operating Review, the Chief Executives Overview, the Combined unaudited pro forma financial information and the Summary financial information in Danish Kroner.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors Remuneration Report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors Remuneration Report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors Remuneration Report.
Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at 31 December 2004 and of the group result for the year then ended: and the financial statements and the auditable part of the directors Remuneration Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Baker Tilly Registered Auditor Chartered Accountants 2 Bloomsbury Street, London WC1B 3ST 3 May 2005
