51 Statement of accounting policies 1 Basis of accounting As a result of a Scheme of Arrangement of Securicor plc, which became effective on 19 July 2004, Group 4 Securicor plc became the ultimate holding company of the Securicor plc group of companies and, on the same date, and as a result of a recommended offer for its shares, acquired Group 4 A S, the holding company of the former security businesses of Group 4 Falck A S. In accordance with the provisions of Financial Reporting Standard 6: Acquisitions and mergers and, on the basis that the transaction has been effected by using a new parent, Group 4 A S was identified as the acquiror, and the combination with Group 4 Securicor plc has therefore been accounted for using merger accounting principles.
The acquisition of Securicor plc by Group 4 A S has been accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting.
The results for Group 4 Securicor plc for the year to 31 December 2004 therefore include the full year of trading of the security businesses of the former Group 4 Falck A S and the trading of the businesses of Securicor plc for the period from 20 July 2004 to 31 December 2004.
The comparative results for the year to 31 December 2003 are those of the security businesses of the former Group 4 Falck A S. These were reported in the Listing Particulars for Group 4 Securicor plc of 4 June 2004 in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and UK accounting standards applicable as at that date.
The comparative results were stated in the Listing Particulars in Danish Kroner and have been translated into the financial statements into sterling using the rates as reported in the Listing Particulars.
The report on the Listing Particulars made by the reporting accountants of the security businesses of the former Group 4 Falck A S businesses was unqualified.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the UK.
A summary of the groups principal accounting policies is given below.
These accounting policies have been adopted by the enlarged group.
The directors have reviewed the impact of these accounting policies on the financial statements of the group, as previously reported, and are of the opinion that none of the adjustments arising are of such significance as to give rise to the need for a prior year adjustment.
The directors have also reviewed the accounting estimates of the previous years and have harmonised these in the preparation of the financial statements.
Due to its size, the financial effect of these revisions is disclosed as an exceptional item, within operating profit.
2 Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
3 Foreign exchange translation Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading activities are translated at the average rate applicable to the accounting period.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet dates.
Foreign exchange adjustments, including those arising on consolidation and on borrowings arranged to finance overseas investments, have been transferred to reserves as disclosed in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
All other exchange adjustments are taken to the profit and loss account.
4 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial results of Group 4 Securicor plc, its subsidiary undertakings and the groups share of the results and net assets of its associates and joint ventures for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Associated undertakings and joint ventures Associated undertakings are entities in which a member of the group holds a long-term minority equity interest, but over which it is in a position to exert a significant influence.
The financial statements include the relevant proportion of the results of associated undertakings based on the last audited financial statements and subsequent management accounts where year ends are not coterminous.
In the consolidated balance sheet the investments in associated undertakings are shown as the groups share of underlying net assets under the heading Investment in associated undertakings.
Joint ventures are entities in which a member of the group holds a long-term interest and shares control under a contractual agreement.
The financial statements include the groups share of results based on the last audited financial statements and subsequent management accounts where year ends are not coterminous.
In the consolidated balance sheet the share of gross assets and gross liabilities is shown under the heading Net investment in joint ventures.
52 Group 4 Securicor ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Statement of accounting policies continued 4 Basis of consolidation continued Dominant influence For those associated undertakings and joint ventures where the group exercises dominant influence by virtue of a common control contract the accounting treatment follows that of subsidiary undertakings.
Quasi-subsidiaries Entities which do not meet the legal definition of a subsidiary, but in which the group has 100% of the economic interest and exposure to substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership, are treated as quasi-subsidiaries in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 5 : Reporting the substance of transactions.
Accordingly, the accounting treatment of such entities follows that of subsidiary undertakings.
5 Accounting for acquisitions and disposals The results of businesses acquired or disposed of are consolidated from or to the effective dates of acquisition or disposal.
On the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings or businesses, the acquisition cost is allocated against the fair value of net assets acquired, after adjustments to bring accounting policies into line with those of the group.
6 Group turnover Turnover represents sales, excluding value added tax and sales tax by group companies to external customers.
Turnover in the manned security and cash services products and in security systems services is recognised in the period in which the service is provided.
Turnover is recognised on security systems installations upon completion in respect of product sales and in accordance with the percentage of completion method in respect of bespoke systems.
According to this method, revenue, expenses and income are accounted for in the period in which the service is related.
7 Research and development expenditure Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure represents expenditure incurred in establishing new services and products of the group.
Such expenditure is capitalised to the extent that it meets criteria defined in Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 13: Accounting for research and development.
In all other circumstances the expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised over the period during which the expenditure is revenue-producing up to a maximum of ten years.
The directors review the capitalised development expenditure on an ongoing basis and, where appropriate, provide for any impairment in value.
8 Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets other than freehold or long leasehold land.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of fixed assets to their estimated residual values by equal annual instalments over their expected economic life as follows: Freehold and long leasehold buildings up to 2% Short leaseholds under 50 years over the life of the lease Equipment 10% - 33.33% Motor vehicles 10% - 33.33% 9 Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents expenditure incurred in the ordinary course of business to bring stock to its present condition and location and includes appropriate overheads.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
10 Current asset investments Current asset investments comprise investments in securities and investments in subsidiary undertakings excluded from consolidation and in the process of disposal.
Listed securities are stated at the lower of cost and their net realisable value.
A distinction is made in their presentation between those which fall within the definition of Liquid resources given in Financial Reporting Standard 1: Cash flow statements and those which do not.
53 Statement of accounting policies continued 11 Taxation Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 19: Deferred tax in full on timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations, except that a net deferred tax asset is recognised only when it can be regarded as more likely than not that it will be recovered.
Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise upon the remittance of earnings from overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax is provided at current rates and is not discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where they relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority and arise in the same taxable entity or group.
12 Goodwill and amortisation Goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value attributed to the net tangible assets at acquisition, is capitalised and amortised over its useful economic life, which is expected to be twenty years.
Provision is made for any impairment.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or before 30 September 1998 was charged directly to reserves.
The profit or loss on disposal or closure of a business includes any attributable goodwill previously charged to reserves.
13 Provisions Provisions are made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
The costs of meeting lease requirements on unoccupied properties are provided for at a discounted rate.
Interest is calculated at an applicable interest rate and charged to the profit and loss account in external interest payable.
Restructuring provisions are made for the costs of a business reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and where the appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken at the balance sheet date.
Expenditure incurred in the year is charged to the relevant provision.
14 Leases Assets held under finance leases are included as tangible fixed assets at their capital value and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic life.
The capital element of future rentals is included within creditors and finance charges are allocated to accounting periods over the period of the lease.
Except for unoccupied properties see note 13 above, annual rentals payable or receivable under operating leases are charged or credited to the profit and loss account as incurred and future rental obligations are disclosed in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
15 Pensions The group operates various funded pension schemes that are established in accordance with local conditions and practices within the countries concerned.
The principal defined benefit schemes are located in the UK.
The regular cost of providing benefits is charged to operating profit over the service lives of the members of the schemes on the basis of a constant percentage of pensionable pay.
Variations from the regular cost arising from periodic actuarial valuations of the schemes are allocated to operating profit over the expected remaining service lives of the members.
The principal schemes in use for new employees are defined contribution schemes.
The group has adopted the interim disclosure requirements of Financial Reporting Standard 17: Retirement benefits as shown in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
16 Financial instruments The financial instruments utilised by the group are interest rate swaps and forward exchange contracts.
These instruments are held to manage the interest rate exposure of borrowings and currency exposures arising from operational transactions.
Interest differentials arising from derivatives are recognised by adjusting net interest payable.
Gains or losses on forward contracts taken out to hedge certain transactions are recognised in the profit and loss account at the same time as the transactions to which they relate.
17 Share awards The estimated cost of share awards is spread evenly over the vesting period.
