44 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1 Basis of accounting 3 Goodwill Where considered appropriate, foreign The following principal accounting policies Goodwill representing the excess of currency instruments are used to provide have been applied consistently in dealing the fair value of the consideration and a hedge against Group investments with items which are considered material associated costs given over the fair value in foreign enterprises.
In such cases, in relation to the Groups accounts.
of the separable net assets acquired exchange differences on those arising on consolidation in respect instruments are taken directly to reserves The accounts have been prepared under of acquisitions before 4 January 1998 together with the exchange differences the historical cost convention, as modied the date from which FRS 10 Goodwill on the carrying amounts of the related by the revaluation of certain xed assets, and intangible assets was adopted investments.
and in accordance with applicable was written off to reserves in the year accounting standards and the Companies of acquisition.
When a subsequent Transactions in foreign currency are Act 1985 and have been prepared disposal occurs, any related goodwill recorded at the rate of exchange ruling on a going concern basis as outlined previously written off to reserves is at the date of transaction, or at the on page 25. included in the profit and loss account contracted rate if the transaction is as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
covered by a forward exchange contract.
Details of changes in accounting policies profits and losses on exchange arising in the period are provided in note 1 to Goodwill arising on consolidation in in the normal course of trading are dealt the accounts.
respect of acquisitions since 4 January with in the profit and loss account.
1998 is capitalised and amortised to 2 Basis of consolidation nil by equal annual instalments over 5 Tangible xed assets The Group accounts include the accounts the shorter of 20 years or its estimated and depreciation of the Company and all its subsidiary useful life.
Tangible xed assets are initially recorded undertakings drawn up under the at cost.
Depreciation is provided on acquisition method for the fty two weeks Goodwill is reviewed for impairment tangible xed assets other than freehold ended 1 January 2005 and comparatives at the end of the first full year following land and investment properties so as for the fty three weeks ended 3 January acquisition and in other periods if events to write off the cost or valuation, less 2004.
The accounts include the or changes in circumstances indicate estimated residual value of each asset, appropriate share of the results and that the carrying value may not over its expected useful life as follows: net assets of its joint ventures and be recoverable.
Freehold buildings 2% to 5% 4 Foreign currency per annum The results of subsidiary undertakings The profit and loss accounts of overseas Leasehold land Remaining term and joint ventures acquired or disposed subsidiary undertakings are translated and buildings of lease of in the period are included in the at the average rate of exchange ruling Plant and equipment 5% to 33% consolidated profit and loss account for the period.
Assets and liabilities per annum from the date of acquisition or up to are translated at the rates of exchange the date of disposal.
ruling at the balance sheet date.
Most plant and equipment is written off Any exchange differences arising on over eight years 12.5% to recognise Where the Group has an investment the retranslation of opening net assets the risk of market obsolescence.
which is sufficient to give the Group are dealt with through reserves.
a participating interest, and over which it exercises significant inuence, the entity is treated as an associate and is accounted for using the equity method.
Entities in which the Group holds an interest on a long term basis, and are jointly controlled by the Group with one or more other parties under a contractual agreement, are treated as joint ventures and are accounted for using the gross equity method.
No profit and loss account is presented for the Company as permitted by Section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985.
Accounts and notes Geest PLC 45 6 Leasing 9 Turnover 11 Employee share schemes Assets held under finance leases are Turnover represents the net invoiced The Company operates a number capitalised and depreciated over their value of goods and services to external of share based incentives as outlined useful lives.
The capital element of future customers excluding value added and on page 31 in the Directors pay and rentals is treated as a liability and the sales taxes.
Where the Company acts as benets report.
The cost of awards to interest element is charged to the profit an agent i. e. where it arranges on behalf employees that take the form of shares and loss account in proportion to the of a customer the supply of goods or rights to shares are recognised over capital outstanding.
or services the commission element the period of the employees related received in return for its services is performance.
No cost is recognised Rentals paid under operating leases are recognised as turnover i. e. the amount in respect of the sharesave or Company charged to the profit and loss account billed to the customer less the amounts share option schemes.
on a straight-line basis over the term paid to the supplier see note 23. of the lease.
12 Government grants 10 Post retirement benets Grants in respect of capital expenditure 7 Stocks The Groups accounting policy in respect are credited to the profit and loss Stocks are stated at the lower of cost of dened benefit schemes was revised account over the anticipated life of the and net realisable value.
Costs include for the year following the implementation related xed asset.
Total grants received, direct materials and direct labour plus of FRS 17 Retirement benets, with less the amounts credited to the profit attributable overheads.
the results for the fty three weeks ended and loss account at the balance sheet 3 January 2004 restated to reect the date, are included in the balance sheet 8 Taxation effect of this change in accounting as deferred income.
The charge for taxation is based on policy note 1. the profit loss for the period and takes 13 Related party transactions into account taxation deferred because The Groups dened benefit scheme FRS 8 Related party disclosures permits of timing differences between the requires contributions to be made groups to be exempt from disclosing treatment of certain items for taxation to a separately administered fund.
transactions or balances with entities and accounting purposes.
The amounts charged to operating profit, which form part of the group.
as part of staff costs, are the current Where applicable, the Company takes Deferred taxation is recognised in service costs.
The interest on pension advantage of this exemption.
respect of all timing differences that scheme liabilities and the expected have originated but not reversed at the return on assets are shown as a net 14 Research and development balance sheet date where transactions amount of other finance costs or income.
expenditure or events have occurred at that date that Actuarial gains and losses are recognised Expenditure on research and development will result in an obligation to pay more, immediately in the statement of total is written off in the period in which it or a right to receive more, taxation.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised Pension scheme assets are measured 15 Financial instruments only to the extent that the Directors at fair value and liabilities are measured Off balance sheet financial instruments consider that it is more likely than not on an actuarial basis using the projected are used to hedge the Groups exposure that there will be suitable taxable profits unit method and discounted at a rate to interest rate and exchange rate risk.
from which the future reversal of the equivalent to the current rate of return Gains and losses arising in relation underlying timing differences can on a high quality corporate bond to such instruments are accounted be deducted.
of equivalent currency and term to the for on an accruals basis note 16. scheme liabilities.
The actuarial valuations Deferred taxation is measured on are obtained at least triennially and are a discounted basis to reect the time updated at each balance sheet date.
value of money over the period between The resulting dened benefit asset the balance sheet date and the dates on or liability, net of the related deferred which it is estimated that the underlying taxation, is presented separately timing differences will reverse.
on the face of the balance sheet.
Contributions to the other Group pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as they become payable.
Additional details are given in note 25.
