Vital information Geest PLC 65 GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN THIS REPORT In this glossary we have tried to cover many of the Capital employed Corporation tax specic financial and business terms used in this All capital used in a business.
It may refer to net assets The tax on a companys profits or losses.
The list is not exhaustive and many total assets less liabilities and often is dened as inuenced by the tax rate applicable for a company of the denitions have been interpreted from a Geest shareholders funds plus long term liabilities.
Operating of our size 30% but also the level of profits and any perspective and so may not be pertinent to other capital employed relates to those net assets involved differences between accounting treatment and tax businesses.
Please let us know of any omissions in operational activities.
This gives rise to the effective tax rate or suggested improvements.
which expresses tax payable as a percentage of profit.
Deferred tax relates to the tax that may be payable Captial expenditure Capex receivable in future as a result of the differences Actuarial valuation Payment for obtaining a long term asset e. g. buildings, between accounting treatments and tax treatments A professional assessment of the funding position machinery.
If stated net then it is after the disposal adopted to date.
of a companys pension scheme, based on assumptions of any such assets.
regarding future events including average life span of members, returns on the different investment types etc.. CSOS Cash ow Company share option scheme.
A plan under which A measure of the actual cash generated by the business employees are granted an option to purchase shares Amortisation rather than accounting profit.
In the UK, this is typically at a future date at market value on grant, provided Depreciation of an intangible asset for Geest, the pre-tax profit plus depreciation, amortisation and other performance criteria are met.
cost of goodwill spread over the number of years non-cash items.
which are judged to benefit.
Debt Equity ratio Close period See Gearing.
Associate Associated undertaking The period prior to the release of a companys interim A business in which Geest has a long term shareholding, or preliminary results, during which the Directors and but does not have management control.
other senior managers are not permitted to trade in Deferred tax the shares of a company.
Base rate Annual interest rate on which lending charges are COIP Delegated authorities calculated by British banks.
Executive co-investment plan a plan by which Geest The process by which the Board of Geest delegates will match certain investments in Geest shares made part of its authority to managers in the business by senior management, if particular conditions are met e. g. a Purchasing Manager is authorised to place Basis point 1 th relating to the long term performance of the Company.
orders up to a specified limit.
Usually 100 of a percentage point 0.01%, used in quoting movements in interest rates or yields on securities.
Combined Code Depreciation The code enshrined in the listing rules of the Financial The means by which a business spreads the cost of an Services Authority setting out how the Board of a asset over its useful life to the business a proportion Book value regulated company should operate.
All companies of the value of the asset is charged against profit in The net value of assets or liabilities cost, less any whose shares are listed in the UK must comply with each year.
For an intangible asset, this is generally amounts written off held in the books of account at the code or explain why they do not.
It may not reect current market value or replacement cost.
Contingent liabilities Derivatives A potential liability of a company, which is deemed Complicated and higher risk financial instruments Bond sufciently unlikely to arise so as not to require generally avoided by Geest.
A certicate of debt issued to raise funds.
Bonds typically inclusion in the accounts, but which management feels pay a xed rate of interest and are repayable at a xed should be brought to the attention of shareholders future date.
AA Bonds are a high quality corporate Diluted earnings per share e. g. the outcome of litigation against a company.
bond used to assess the value of our dened benefit See Earnings per share.
Continuing Dividends Describes the ongoing element of a companys British Retail Consortium BRC The proportion of a companys profits paid to results and excludes the results of disposed Trade association representing retailers in the UK.
shareholders, usually declared as a dividend per share.
In the UK, the dividend is usually paid in two parts: an interim dividend payment and a final dividend Broker analyst Corporate governance payment once the final results for the year are known.
A sell-side analyst employed by a stockbroker who The system by which companies are directed and Dividend cover is the number of times a company assesses a company and makes recommendations controlled.
It is the way the companys affairs are could pay its dividend out of its net profit after tax.
to investors as to the relative value of that handled by the Directors and ofcers.
Dividend yield is widely used to measure the income companys shares.
It is the ratio of annualised dividend per share to market share price.
A special dividend is Capital commitment a distribution to shareholders other than interim and The situation where a company has contractually final dividend payments.
agreed to undertake some capital expenditure before the period end, but the money has not yet been spent nor the asset received.
66 Geest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 GLOSSARY OF TERMS USED IN THIS REPORT CONTINUED Due diligence FRC Code International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS For a potential acquirer, includes the understanding of The Financial Reporting Council is an independent and International Accounting Standards IAS the obligations of the targeted company and typically regulator for corporate reporting and governance The common accounting principles on which the major takes the form of the acquirers list of several hundred which, in 2003, published a code promoting high industrial nations are harmonising their accounting questions and requests for copies of documents that quality corporate reporting, auditing and corporate treatments.
the potential seller must answer and provide.
Joint venture Earnings FRS 17 Retirement benets Co-operation on a project or business between two profit available to ordinary shareholders, after Financial Reporting Standard detailing how companies or more parties, generally sharing management control all operating expenses, interest charges, taxes should account for pensions costs.
This replaces and profit loss.
and preference dividends have been deducted.
Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 Accounting for pension costs SSAP 24 and has LIBOR been fully implemented by Geest for the first time in Earnings per share EPS London Inter Bank Offered Rate the rate of interest 2004.
Earnings divided by the number of ordinary shares at which banks will lend in the inter bank market.
Diluted earnings per share amend the number The EURIBOR is similar the inter bank offer rate of shares to reect the potential number of shares Financial Services Authority FSA within the European banking system.
outstanding after the exercise of any options.
Adjusted The independent body that regulates listed companies earnings per share amend the earnings gure to take and the financial services industry in the UK.
Liquidity out the effect of certain items as dened in the accounts.
The proportion of cash or cash equivalents in a FTSE 250 350 companys assets.
Sometimes used as a measure EBIT The companies traded on the London Stock Exchange of the short term financial health of a company.
Earnings as above before interest and tax.
which are the largest 250 and 350 respectively in terms of market capitalisation after the largest 100 which Listing rules make up the FTSE 100.
EBITA The rules made by the Financial Services Authority Earnings as above before interest, tax and goodwill which apply to all companies whose shares are listed amortisation.
GARD Group Audit and Review Department in the UK.
Geest function which carries out internal audit activities on behalf of the Audit Committee and the Board and EBITDA Long term incentive plan LTIP also provides support and assistance to the finance Earnings as above before interest, tax, depreciation A share incentive plan whereby a company awards functions.
shares to senior managers subject to performance criteria related to the long term performance of a company.
Gearing Effective tax rate % Used to describe the relationship between debt and See Corporation tax.
Calculated by dividing a companys debt by the Geests executive operational team.
A highly geared company carries Electronic communication with shareholders a lot of debt.
Also measured by the debt equity ratio.
Documents which, upon agreement with shareholders, Market capitalisation can be sent to shareholders electronically e. g. by e-mail Value at current market prices of a companys share Goodwill or placed on a website, instead of by post.
Calculated by multiplying current share price An intangible asset representing the amount paid for by the number of shares in issue.
an acquired business over and above the net assets Enterprise value acquired.
It is a reection of the reputation, trading A measure of a companys value calculated by its Mid price connections and future earning potential of the business.
market capitalisation plus debt, minus cash.
The mid point between the bid buy and offer sell share Only goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business prices quoted in the market.
is included in these accounts.
Exceptional items Gains losses incurred that should be noted in a Minority interests Hedging companys results according to accounting standards.
Arise when subsidiary undertakings are not 100% owned Reducing exposure to risk of loss resulting from Even when these items are considered to be a part by the parent company.
Amounts reecting the share uctuations in exchange rates, commodity prices, interest of ordinary business activities, due to their size of the results in the period, or assets at the balance rates etc.
Typical tools include forward foreign exchange or frequency, management considers that they should sheet date, of the subsidiaries that are not attributable contracts and interest rate swaps.
Interest cover Executive Directors Net debt The number of times a company could pay its most Board Directors who are also full time employees The excess of a companys borrowings over its cash recent interest charges out of its net profit before of a company and have management responsibility.
Experience gain loss Internal rate of return IRR The gain or loss on pensions which arises from liability A technique for appraising capital investment.
It is the assumptions excluding investment return being different rate of return that needs to be applied as the discount from the actual events in the period under review.
factor to future cash ows from a project to give an overall net present value of zero.
In simple terms, if the IRR is higher than a predetermined hurdle rate then the project is worthwhile.
Vital information Geest PLC 67 Operating and financial review OFR Remuneration Total Shareholder Return TSR That part of the Annual Report and Accounts which Pay, share scheme entitlements and benets in kind The capital gains or losses achieved by investing in a sets out a companys performance in words and provided to Directors.
share, assuming all dividends are re-invested in those statistics, representing a performance summary of the shares, expressed in annualised terms as a percentage period under review.
Guidelines recommend that both of the amount invested.
Retail Price Index RPI financial and non-financial data deemed material A basket of goods services the price of which is to a companys performance should be reported, calculated monthly and which provides a broad Treasury shares in order to present a balanced picture of the business.
measure of the level of ination.
Shares in a company which are held by the company itself.
Option Return on Capital Employed ROCE The right but not the obligation to buy or sell shares Return on Invested Capital ROIC Whistle-blowing policy at a given price exercise price before a given date These are measures of the profitability of the funds The policy setting out the procedures an employee expiry date.
assets used by the business.
ROCE measures operating can take to alert management to a breach of the profit before goodwill amortisation as a percentage law or internal regulation in areas, for Geest, such Percentile ranking of total capital employed excluding goodwill.
ROIC as food safety, health and safety, the environment The ranking of an item in relation to its peer group, measures operating profit before goodwill amortisation and financial procedures.
taking the population as 100% and identifying the but after tax as a percentage of capital invested, which performance in terms of a grouping within the overall includes goodwill arising on acquisitions.
Working capital th population e. g. 25 percentile means in the top 25% or The cash that the business has tied up in funding quarter of all members of the peer group.
This includes the value of the A Geest committee of senior management, including stock it holds, the amount owed to it in trade debts Price Earnings P E ratio the Chief Executive officer and a non-executive Director, by customers less any amounts that are funded by our Ratio or multiple calculated by dividing the market which meets to oversee the systems in place that suppliers creditors in the form of trade debts to them.
price per share by the earnings per share.
It is a ensure that issues relating to food safety, health and simple measure for comparing the relative valuations safety and the environment are dealt with appropriately.
Shareholder value Price sensitive information PSI The value a company generates for shareholders in Any information which, if in the public domain, could terms of both dividends and growth in a companys cause the share price to move.
Prior period adjustment Sharesave scheme This arises where the accounting treatment of an item A savings related share option scheme whereby has changed and the new policy is applied to restate employees are granted an option to purchase shares the results and assets for the previous period to in the Company after a certain time period, usually aid comparison.
at a discount of up to 20% to the market price at date of grant.
Employees save regularly to accumulate the funds to exercise the option.
Proxy form A form which allows a shareholder to nominate someone else to vote on their behalf.
Statement of total recognised gains and losses A statement required under UK accounting standards which shows the change in the book value of Record date a company over the period before allowing for The date on which a shareholder should be entered dividend payments.
on a companys share register to qualify for a dividend payment.
Subsidiary Subsidiary undertaking These are businesses in which Geest owns all or Related party the majority of their shares and or can exercise This covers Directors of Geest, their immediate families, management control.
or any other company in which those people have a significant interest excluding other Group companies and any Group company holding shares on trust for Substantial shareholdings the benefit of employees who may include Directors.
Shareholdings of 3% and over of the issued Joint ventures of the Group are also related parties.
