NOTICE OF MEETING GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 66 NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the twenty seventh Annual General a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a Meeting of George Wimpey Plc will be held on 14 April 2005 at rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer or 11.30 am at The Royal College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, a scrip dividend alternative in each case in favour of ordinary Regents Park, London NW1 4LE, to transact the following business: shareholders excluding any shareholder holding shares as treasury shares where the equity securities respectively ORDINARY BUSINESS attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are 1 To receive and consider the Report of the Directors and Accounts proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number for the year ended 31 December 2004. of ordinary shares held or deemed to be held by them, and 2 That a final dividend of 10.8 pence per share in respect of the year subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors ended 31 December 2004 be and is hereby declared due and may deem necessary or expedient to deal with fractional payable on 13 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at close entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any overseas of business on 4 March 2005, such final dividend to be payable only territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock in respect of such of the shares in respect of which the relevant exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and holder of the shares has not exercised any entitlement to receive b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph new shares instead of a dividend in cash pursuant to the scrip a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal dividend scheme.
value of 4,897,435: To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation: and shall expire five years after the date of passing of this resolution, 3 Peter Johnson save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be 4 Andrew Carr-Locke allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity 5 Christine Cross securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
and to re-appoint: 10 That the Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally 6 Peter Redfern following his first appointment to the Board authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of 7 To re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of not more than Company, to hold ofce until the conclusion of the next general 39,179,481 ordinary shares of 25 pence each in its share capital at a meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, and to price not less than 25 pence per share and not more than 5% above authorise the Directors to x their remuneration.
the average of the middle market quotations for the ordinary shares in the Company taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the which are to be proposed, in the case of resolutions 8, and 11, day on which such shares are contracted to be purchased in each as ordinary resolutions and, in the case of resolutions 9 and 10, case exclusive of any expenses provided that the authority hereby as special resolutions of the Company: conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General 8 That the Directors be and they are hereby generally and Meeting of the Company to be held after the date hereof except unconditionally authorised in substitution for all previous authorities that the Company may make a contract to purchase its own shares conferred upon them to exercise all powers of the Company to allot under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such relevant securities within the meaning of section 80 2 of the authority, which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal value of expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of its own shares 32,649,568, provided that this authority shall expire five years after in pursuance of any such contract.
the date of passing of this resolution save that the Company may SPECIAL BUSINESS before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or 11 That the Remuneration Report contained within the Annual might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 is and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of hereby approved.
such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
9 That the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 94 2 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by the resolution numbered 8 above and or where such allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 94 3A of the Companies Act 1985, as if sub-section 1 of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: NOTICE OF MEETING www.
co. uk 67 EXPLANATION OF RESOLUTIONS Resolution 10: To Empower the Company to Make Market Purchases Resolution 1: To Receive the Directors Report and Accounts of its Shares The Directors are required to present to the meeting the Directors and This resolution is intended to renew the authority of the Directors to AuditorsReports and the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004. make market purchases of shares within a 10% limit, and in accordance with Article 53 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board has Resolution 2: To Approve a Dividend no present intention of exercising this authority.
Moreover, purchases The proposed 2004 final dividend of 10.8 pence per share will be paid will only be made if they would result in an expected increase in on 13 May 2005 to shareholders who are on the register on earnings per share, taking into account other available investment 4 March 2005.
The final dividend will be paid in cash to all shareholders opportunities, and will be in the best interests of shareholders other than those who exercise their right to receive shares instead of generally.
Any shares purchased in accordance with this authority their cash dividend pursuant to the scrip dividend scheme.
will subsequently be cancelled or they may be held in treasury Resolution 3: To Re-elect Peter Johnson pursuant to the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Article 103 of the Companys Articles of Association states that one Shares Regulations 2003.
These regulations allow the Company to third of the Directors must retire annually, those doing so being the hold its own shares in treasury following a buy back as an alternative longest serving since last being re-elected.
Peter Johnson offers himself to cancelling them.
Holding bought back shares in treasury provides for re-election.
the Company with the ability to sell or transfer them quickly and effectively and also provides exibility in using such shares for Resolution 4: To Re-elect Andrew Carr-Locke employees schemes.
If any such shares are used, the Company will, Andrew Carr-Locke offers himself for re-election in accordance with so long as required under the guidelines of the Association of British Article 103 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Insurers Investment Committee, count them towards the limits in the Resolution 5: To Re-elect Christine Cross schemes as if they were newly issued shares.
Christine Cross offers herself for re-election in accordance with Article All rights attaching to the shares, including voting rights and the right 103 of the Companys Articles of Association.
to receive dividends, are suspended whilst they are held in treasury.
Resolution 6: To Re-appoint Peter Redfern Options were outstanding as at 1 February 2005 to subscribe for a total Article 108 allows the Board to appoint a person to the Board number of 8,798,764 ordinary shares, or 2.25% of the Companys issued during the year, subject to them being re-appointed at the share capital.
Peter Redfern was appointed on 12 October 2004 and offers himself for re-appointment.
If the authority to purchase shares is ever used in full and the purchased shares cancelled, the proportion of issued share capital Directors biographical details are shown on page 35 of the represented by this gure would be 2.5%.
These include dates of appointment, ages, career histories, current directorships and other significant appointments.
Resolution 11: To Approve the Remuneration Report of the Company The Board recommends the re-election and the re-appointment In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations of the above Directors.
2002 the Board is required to present the Remuneration Report to shareholders for approval at the Meeting.
The Remuneration Report is Resolution 7: To Re-appoint  as Auditors set out on pages 41 to 46 of the Annual Report and Accounts for This resolution proposes that  LLP the year ended 31 December 2004.
The Board considers that be re-appointed as auditors, and permits the Directors to x appropriate executive remuneration plays a vital part in helping to their remuneration.
achieve the Companys overall objectives.
The vote will have advisory Resolutions 8 9: To Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption Rights status in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration Under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, the Directors cannot packages and is not specic to individual levels of remuneration.
generally allot shares in the Company unless they are authorised to By Order of the Board do so by the Company in general meeting.
Resolution 8 will authorise the Directors to issue new shares up to the lower of one third of the amount of the nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as at the date of this Notice i. e. up to a value of 32,649,568 or the amount of the nominal value of the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company.
The authority will expire five years after James J Jordan the date of passing of this resolution.
The Directors have no present Group Company Secretary intention of issuing shares, except as needed to satisfy the exercise George Wimpey Plc of options under the Companys Employee Share Scheme and the Manning House allotment of shares pursuant to such elections made by shareholders 22 Carlisle Place of the Company.
London SW1P 1JA 22 February 2005 Under Resolution 9, the Directors will remain subject to constraints on the issue of shares for cash.
They will be able to issue such shares for cash only: in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer or a scrip dividend alternative, or up to 5% of the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the Notice, i. e. 4,897,435.
NOTICE OF MEETING GEORGE WIMPEY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED 68 ACTION TO BE TAKEN NOTES: Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General Meeting, i.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this Meeting may appoint a proxy you are requested to complete the enclosed Form of Proxy and return to attend and vote instead of him or her.
The proxy need not be a member of the Company.
it to the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, ii.
Instruments appointing proxies must be received by the Companys Registrars Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA as soon as possible and in any event not less than 48 hours before the time xed for the Meeting.
so as to be received no later than 48 hours before the time appointed iii.
Contracts of Service with Directors and the Register of Directors Interests will for the Annual General Meeting, that is no later than 11:30 am on be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during usual 12 April 2005.
The completion and submission of a Form of Proxy will business hours between the date of this Notice and the Annual General Meeting not prevent you from attending and voting in person if you so wish.
and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the meeting and until its conclusion.
In conjunction with its Registrars, the Company has this year iv.
A copy of the full Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December introduced a facility to allow each shareholder to register proxy 2004, including the Remuneration Report referred to in Resolutions 1 and 11 votes electronically.
Detailed information of how to do this is set out respectively, is also available on www.
co. uk on the Form of Proxy Admission Card.
You can register your proxy v. As permitted by Regulation 41 of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001, votes electronically by either logging on to our Registrars website, only those shareholders who are registered on the Companys share register at www.
co. uk and following the instructions, or, if your 6:00 pm on 12 April 2005 shall be entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting shareholding is uncerticated, by registering your proxy votes and to vote in respect of the number of shares registered in their names at that using the service launched by CRESTCo, principally to streamline time.
Changes to entries on the share register after 6:00 pm on 12 April 2005 the process for institutional investors.
shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
RECOMMENDATION Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour of them.
Each Director will be doing so in respect of his or her own beneficial shareholdings.
ATTENDANCE AND VOTING As a shareholder of George Wimpey Plc, you have the right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Please bring with you the accompanying Form of Proxy Admission Card and retain it until the end of the Meeting.
It will authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us to register your attendance without delay.
Registration will be available from 9:30 am.
For the safety and comfort of those attending the Meeting, large bags, cameras, recording equipment and similar items will not be allowed into the building.
The Meeting will commence at 11:30 am and light refreshments will be available from 11:00 am and also after the conclusion of the Meeting.
You are advised to bring your Annual Report with you to the Meeting so that you can refer to it as necessary.
If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may appoint either the Chairman of the Meeting or someone else of your choice to act on your behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
You are advised to use the enclosed Form of Proxy to appoint a proxy or to vote electronically as outlined above and in more detail on the enclosed Form of Proxy.
A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and vote on behalf of the shareholder who appointed him or her.
At the Meeting, the proxy can act for the member he or she represents.
This includes the right to join in or demand a poll, but it does not include the right to vote on a show of hands.
The proxy is also valid for any adjournment of the Meeting.
Please tick the appropriate box alongside each resolution on the Form of Proxy to indicate whether you wish your votes to be cast for, or against, or whether you wish to withhold your vote from, that resolution.
Unless you give specic instructions on how to vote on a particular resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, either to vote for or against that resolution or to withhold from voting.
Before posting the form to the Registrar, please check that you have signed it.
In the case of joint holders, either of you may sign it.
The Forms of Proxy must be received in the ofces of the Companys Registrars no later than 11:30 am on 12 April 2005.
Any Form of Proxy received after this time will be void.
