co. uk 51 ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF PREPARATION DEFERRED TAXATION The Group Accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not been reversed by the balance sheet date, where of accounting.
They have been drawn up in accordance with applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance The Group has adopted UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts during the sheet date.
Deferred taxation assets are recognised to the extent that they year.
Details of the impact on reserves brought forward are set out in note are regarded as recoverable and have not been discounted.
The Balance Sheet at 31 December 2003 has been restated to comply assets and liabilities are calculated using the tax rates that have been with the requirements of UITF 38. enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet dates.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION STOCK The Group Accounts consolidate the accounts of George Wimpey Plc Land held for development and construction work in progress are valued and all its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December each year.
at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Other stock comprises materials, equipment and goods for resale valued at the lower of cost and JOINT VENTURES net realisable value.
The results of undertakings in which the Group holds an interest and jointly controls with other parties are accounted for using the gross RETIREMENT BENEFITS equity method of accounting.
Pension costs are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions at a substantially level percentage of payroll costs over the TURNOVER expected lives of members.
Housing turnover comprises the value of new houses and land sales legally completed during the year.
Other turnover is based on the invoiced value OPERATING LEASES of goods and services supplied during the year.
Turnover excludes value Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account in equal added tax and intra-group turnover.
amounts over the lease term.
PROFIT FOREIGN CURRENCIES Operating profit comprises new houses and land sales.
Housing profit is Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date taken only when legal completion has taken place.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at closing rates of exchange or the relevant DEPRECIATION forward rate where applicable.
All differences are taken to the profit and Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated loss account.
On consolidation, the trading results of overseas subsidiary to write off the cost or valuation of each asset to its residual value evenly undertakings are translated at the average rate for the year and the balance over its expected useful life as follows: sheets at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening balance sheets, together with the difference between profit and Offices occupied by the Group: loss accounts translated at average rates and closing rates, are dealt with Freehold buildings and long leaseholds in excess of 50 years through reserves.
over 50 years Translation differences on intra-group currency loans and foreign currency Short leaseholds borrowings, to the extent that they are used to finance or provide a hedge over the period of the lease.
against Group equity investments in foreign enterprises, are taken directly to reserves together with the exchange difference on the carrying amount Plant and equipment: of the related investments.
All other translation differences are taken to the over the expected useful life of the assets ranging mainly profit and loss account.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS GOODWILL Derivative foreign exchange instruments that are deemed hedges Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the fair of specific foreign currency assets liabilities are matched against the value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable underlying asset or liability.
Derivative interest rate instruments are matched net assets acquired.
Historical goodwill has been written off to reserves within interest payable or receivable over the life of the instrument or in the year in which it arose.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 1998 relevant interest period.
Interest rate instruments are not recognised in the is capitalised, and amortised through the profit and loss account over balance sheet.
Changes in fair value of financial instruments are not its useful economic life.
recognised in the profit and loss account or balance sheet.
