GlaxoSmithKline 180 Glossary of terms Terms used in the Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accelerated capital allowances Tax allowance in excess of depreciation arising from the purchase of fixed assets that delay the charging and payment of tax.
The US equivalent of tax depreciation.
Advance Corporation Tax ACT An advance payment of UK tax that was made when dividends are paid.
American Depositary Receipt ADR Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
Each GlaxoSmithKline ADR represents two ordinary shares.
American Depositary Shares ADSs Ordinary Shares registered on the New York Stock Exchange.
Called-up share capital Ordinary Shares, issued and fully paid.
CER growth Growth at constant exchange rates.
Combined Code Guidelines required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority to address the principal aspects of Corporate Governance.
Currency swap An exchange of two currencies, coupled with a subsequent re-exchange of those currencies, at agreed exchange rates and dates.
Defined benefit plan Pension plan with specific employee benefits, often called final salary scheme.
Defined contribution plan Pension plan with specific contributions and a level of pension dependent upon the growth of the pension fund.
Derivative financial instrument A financial instrument that derives its value from the price or rate of some underlying item.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted income per share.
Earnings per share Basic income per share.
Employee Share Ownership Plan Trusts Trusts established by the Group to satisfy share based employee incentive plans.
Equity shareholders funds The aggregation of shares and reserves owned by shareholders.
The US equivalent is shareholders equity.
Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity.
Gearing ratio Net debt as a percentage of shareholders funds net debt and minority interests.
The Group GlaxoSmithKline plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
Hedging The reduction of risk, normally in relation to foreign currency or interest rate movements, by making off-setting commitments.
Intangible fixed assets Assets without physical substance, such as brands, licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights purchased from outside parties.
Interest cover The number of times profit before interest exceeds net interest payable.
Non-equity minority interest Preference shares issued by a subsidiary to outside parties.
Preference shares Shares issued at varying dividend rates that are treated as outside interests.
Profit and loss account reserve Retained earnings.
Profit attributable to shareholders Net income.
Share capital Ordinary Shares, capital stock or common stock issued and fully paid.
Share premium account Additional paid-up capital or paid-in surplus not distributable.
Shares in issue Shares outstanding.
Statement of total recognised gains and losses Statement of comprehensive income.
Subsidiary undertaking An affiliate in which GlaxoSmithKline holds a majority shareholding and or exercises control.
Tangible fixed assets Property, plant and equipment.
Contact details INTERNET Information for investors and about the company is available on GlaxoSmithKlines corporate website at www.
com HEAD OFFICE AND REGISTERED OFFICE GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford Middlesex TW8 9GS Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 UNITED KINGDOM UNITED STATES OF AMERICA Investor relations Investor relations 980 Great West Road One Franklin Plaza Brentford PO Box 7929 Middlesex TW8 9GS Philadelphia PA 19101 Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5557 5558 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free Fax: 44 0 20 8047 7807 Tel: 1 215 751 7003 outside the USA Fax: 1 215 751 3233 Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars ADR programme administrator The Causeway The Bank of New York Worthing Shareholder Relations West Sussex BN99 6DA PO Box 11258 www.
co. uk Church Street Station New York NY 10286-1258 General enquiries, Annual Report orderline and www.
com Corporate Nominee service Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK Tel: 1 610 382 7836 outside the USA Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 outside the UK Customer response center Shareholder Investment Plans Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free Dividend re-investment enquiries Tel: 0870 241 3018 inside the UK Corporate Share dealing facility Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 outside the UK - Ordinary holders Smith Barney Tel: 44 0 121 415 7146 outside the UK - Employees Attn: GSK Services 53 State Street Monthly Savings Plan enquiries 39th Floor Tel: 0870 606 0268 inside the UK Boston, MA 02109 Tel: 44 0 131 527 3746 outside the UK Tel: 1 800 347 6179 toll free ISA enquiries Tel: 1 617 589 3341 outside the USA Tel: 0870 242 4244 inside the UK Fax: 1 617 589 3474 Tel: 44 0 1903 854 062 outside the UK TheTaylorGroup@SmithBarney.
com Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs The Share Centre Limited Oxford House Oxford Road Aylesbury Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 44 0 1296 414 144 Corporate Share dealing facility Smith Barney Attn: GSK Services Citigroup Centre, Level 20 Canada Square, Canary Wharf London E14 5LB Tel: 44 0 20 7508 1795 Fax: 44 0 20 7890 7281 TheBalaesGroup@Citigroup.
com Printed by The Midas Press in the UK.
The paper used in the production of this document is made from pulp harvested from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues and forest thinnings.
GlaxoSmithKline Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 New challenges New thinking www.
com Do more, feel better, live longer Annual Review 2004 New challenges New thinking Do more, feel better, live longer The world is changing... Todays global healthcare challenges mean that new thinking is called for by the pharmaceutical industry R&D productivity Healthcare funding crisis It is getting more difficult and taking longer currently an average The demand for quality healthcare is growing faster than of 12 years to develop new medicines.
Despite a substantial governments and healthcare purchasers ability to support it.
GSKs increase in global R&D expenditure, fewer novel medicines were challenge is to deliver innovative and affordable medicines that meet launched in 2003 than at any time during the last 20 years.
the real and unmet needs of people burdened by disease.
By working GSKs challenge is to discover new medicines faster and more closely with patient groups, we are able to tailor our development economically.
In recent years, we have transformed our R&D process to better meet patient needs and maximise the effectiveness function.
The result has been a nearly 80% increase in the of our R&D expenditure.
number of New Chemical Entities in our pipeline, which is now one of the largest in our industry.
Access to medicines Transparency In the developing world, where infectious diseases present an Today, physicians, patients, stakeholders and investors quite rightly enormous burden, there is an urgent need for medicines but a lack demand greater levels of transparency about the safety and of resources to pay for them.
GSK is the only company that is efcacy of medicines.
In 2004, GSK started publishing its clinical developing medicines and vaccines to treat all three of the World trial data on the internet for anyone to access.
We are the first Health Organizations top priority diseases: malaria, tuberculosis pharmaceutical company to offer this level of transparency.
In 2004, GSK shipped 33 million tablets of have also increased the information made available through our  Combivir GSKs HIV treatment to Africa.
reporting and on our corporate website www.
And were changing too... GSK recognises the implications of todays changing world.
We are committed to embracing change, turning challenges into opportunities and new thinking into new ways of working In the past four years, we have transformed our R&D function, introducing innovative ways of working, and advanced technology and automation to help us discover and develop medicines and vaccines more efficiently and effectively.
We have sharpened our operations, introducing operational excellence programmes, streamlining our processes, building partnerships with our stakeholders, and focusing on the unmet needs of patients.
And we have invested in the communities in which we operate, developing medicines for the developing world, supporting community health education programmes, donating medicines, and introducing preferential pricing for those in need.
This is an ongoing challenge, and much remains to be done.
We are committed to participating in the debate on healthcare reform and playing our part in addressing the key issues.
This Annual Review explains how GSK is embracing change and how our efforts are delivering results.
Front cover We have chosen the image of a pill Contents Annual Review 2004 for our front cover because it is the essence of what New challenges 14 Business operating review 02 Chairmans and CEOs statement New thinking we do: discovering, developing, manufacturing and 18 The Board 03 Highlights of the year delivering medicines to the people who need them.
19 The Corporate Executive Team 04 So what is the big challenge?
It also represents the 20 Summary remuneration report 06 Transforming R&D global nature of our business and our global 23 Corporate governance 08 Delivering the pipeline responsibility to provide access to medicines for both 25 Summary financial statements 10 Sharpening our operations the developed and developing world.
27 Shareholder information 12 Contributing to society Do more, feel better, live longer New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 1 Chairmans and CEOs Statement We knew 2004 would be a challenging year for GSK and we are pleased to report that we have achieved our financial and business objectives In our last Annual Review, we predicted that Our pipeline is focused on developing new 2004 would be a challenging year as we felt medicines and vaccines to treat diseases of the full impact of generic competition to Paxil unmet medical need, such as cancer and and the introduction of generic Wellbutrin.
Many of these have the GSK managed this year well, thanks to the potential to be important new products.
underlying strength of the business.
In fact, For example, we believe that Cervarix, our GSK is a much stronger company today than promising vaccine candidate against cervical it was a year ago.
cancer, has the potential to make a major contribution to healthcare globally and to Our broad-based portfolio of fast-growing become our best-selling vaccine.
We expect Sir Christopher Gent, Non-Executive Chairman products and continued focus on controlling to le Cervarix in the European Union and costs enabled us to absorb the loss of more international markets in 2006. than 1.5 billion of business to generics and still achieve a 1% increase in global Great opportunities lie ahead of us.
Turnover of 20 billion This year, we will work to ensure a greater grew 1% at constant exchange rates CER, understanding by key stakeholders of the and we achieved our guidance of earnings value of innovative medicines.
We will per share EPS at least in line with business continue our contribution to nding a performance EPS in 2003 at CER.
Our EPS solution to the healthcare funding crisis, and grew 2% to 75p in 2004. we will seek new ways of improving access to our medicines for the people who need them In 2005, we expect to see faster growth most but are least able to pay for them.
Our with an EPS percentage CER growth in the Corporate Responsibility Principles continue low double-digit range on an International to guide the way we do business.
A separate Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis.
2004 Corporate Responsibility Report This is being driven by the strong growth of available from the GSK website explains Jean-Pierre Garnier, Chief Executive officer key products and continuing efficiencies in progress against these Principles during our operations.
Our most exciting phase of the year.
growth will come when the new compounds and vaccines currently in development start Acknowledgements contributing to our performance over the next We acknowledge with gratitude the few years.
contribution of Sir Christopher Hogg and Sir Peter Job, who retired from the Board at GSK has one of the largest and most the end of 2004.
Sir Christopher chaired promising pipelines in the industry, with GSK through a period that saw the Company 140 projects in clinical development as at the derive the full benets of the merger and end of February 2005, including 88 New meet the challenges caused by the loss of Chemical Entities NCEs, 32 Product Line patent protection on major products.
Of these compounds, 43 NCEs have moved into Phase John Coombe, Chief Financial officer, will II trials, including compounds to treat HIV, retire from the Board of GSK on 31 March diabetes, blood disorders and multiple 2005.
John has served GSK and its sclerosis, and data on at least 15 of these predecessor companies in an exemplary are expected during 2005.
In 2005, we also manner for more than 18 years, playing a anticipate the launch of six new products, major role in guiding the Company through including Rotarix for rotavirus, Vesicare for the post-merger period and establishing overactive bladder, Boniva for osteoporosis, GSK as a leader within the global Avandaryl for diabetes, Requip for restless pharmaceutical industry.
legs syndrome and Entereg for post-operative bowel disorders.
We thank all three departing directors for All percentage growth rates are at constant their substantial contributions to GSK and exchange rates CER, unless otherwise stated.
See Business operating review page 15 wish them well for the future.
2 2 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking New challenges, new thinking HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE PRODUCT PIPELINE GSKS BUSINESS STRATEGY GSKs business strategy developed projects in 2001 at the time of the merger in clinical is delivering results: development 20bn 140 Total turnover grew 1% despite a Our promising product pipeline is one To build the best product pipeline 1.5 billion loss of sales to generics of the largest in the industry in the industry To achieve commercial and spent each operational excellence day on R&D 8m To improve access to medicines GSK spends more on R&D than any for those who cannot afford them 6bn other UK company profit before tax grew 2% To make GSK the best place for the best people to do their best work To contribute to investment in 04 X. Xbn Nearly80% communities around the world increase in New Chemical Entities To ensure our business decisions take NCEs in pipeline since merger into consideration ethical, social and 75p environmental concerns Earnings per share grew 2% in 2004, in line with our BEST PEOPLE earnings guidance 82% CARING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT of managers surveyed believe that GSK employees are committed and enabled to make meaningful contributions 2nd largest 7% 83% pharmaceutical of managers surveyed are proud to be part decrease in greenhouse gas company in of GSK and 77% would gladly refer a emissions per unit sales the world friend or family member to work for GSK ACCESS TO MEDICINES COMMERCIAL & OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE More than 475,000 500m patients have access to GSKs medicines 12 GSK products achieved sales of more mostly free of charge, through the US Patient than 500 million in 2004 Assistance Program More than 2.5bn 85m sales of Seretide Advair up 19% people protected from lymphatic lariasis GSKs largest product and the worlds with GSK-donated albendazole sixth largest pharmaceutical product 50m value of donated INVESTMENT IN COMMUNITIES medicines Method of giving Value of global community including US Patient Assistance Program investment activities 33m 5%  Management 328m costs 15% Combivir tablets 5.4% of profit before tax Cash HIV treatment 1% In kind shipped to Africa 21m Health programmes and activities 79% Product 18m Education programmes and activities New challenges, new thinking New challenges, new thinking New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 3 3 3 So what is the big challenge?
An interview with JP Garnier, Chief Executive officer Ultimately, it is the crisis of healthcare nancing and pricing pressures largely due to ageing populations in the developed world What is the main challenge facing the How healthy is GSKs pipeline of In September 2004, GSK was ranked first in pharmaceutical industry and how is potential new medicines?
terms of market share in 10 of the 21 therapy GSK responding to it?
We currently have 54 New Chemical areas in which GSK has launched products.
Ultimately, it is the crisis of healthcare Entities NCEs in Phases II and III late stage nancing and pricing pressures largely due to clinical trials, and have achieved good results In 2004, our turnover grew 1% despite the ageing populations in the developed world.
over the last few months from studies of some significant loss of more than 1.5 billion of our An increasing ageing population means that of our key compounds, including Lapatinib for business to generics during the year.
We also there is an increasing demand for new cancer and Cervarix, a vaccine against cervical continued to focus on managing our costs medicines to treat chronic and degenerative cancer.
A lot remains to be done, of course, through our operational excellence diseases.
and there will always be some pipeline programmes see Sharpening our operations, attrition, but we are making good progress.
In 2005, we expect to see faster While this presents an opportunity for GSK We believe we have one of the largest and growth.
Continued scrutiny of costs and new and other pharmaceutical companies, it is also most promising pipelines in the industry - in initiatives to streamline our operations remains placing a financial burden on governments fact, the number of NCEs in the pipeline has a key strategic focus for us.
and healthcare purchasers that is growing increased by nearly 80% since the merger.
faster than their ability to support it.
In the Many patients in both the developed developing world, where infectious diseases In 2005, data are expected on at least 15 and developing worlds do not have present an enormous burden, there products and vaccines in Phase II clinical trials, access to the medicines they need.
is an urgent need for medicines but a lack of including compounds to treat HIV, diabetes, What is GSK doing to improve this resources to pay for them.
blood disorders and multiple sclerosis.
Our pipeline is targeted at developing Therefore, GSKs challenge is to deliver In the meantime, can GSK continue to medicines that address real and unmet affordable medicines that meet the needs deliver strong performance?
medical needs, both in the developed and of people burdened by disease.
We have been able to stay on track developing world.
we must continue to build partnerships with nancially because of the performance governments and healthcare purchasers, of our key pharmaceutical products, such as We have learnt valuable lessons from being and other external stakeholders.
They need Seretide Advair and Avandia.
We have also proactive and innovative, and we arent afraid to understand the scale, complexity and cost done very well with products such as Coreg to be first.
For example, GSK started the first of research and development, and we need for heart failure and Lamictal for epilepsy and savings card for prescription medicines the to work with them to nd new solutions bipolar disorder, Valtrex for genital herpes and Orange Card, for US senior citizens and we to funding.
These products grew were the first company to sell our HIV drugs 22% in 2004. on a non-profit basis in Africa, where we also now have six voluntary licensing agreements.
4 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking We have learnt valuable lessons from being proactive and innovative, and we arent afraid to be first I am proud of our commitment to increasing Our Corporate Responsibility Principles How do you expect GSK to look in access to medicines and our generosity in a articulate the standards we are committed five years time?
wide variety of philanthropic undertakings.
to meeting in our work and interaction with JPG.
Our goal is to develop innovative communities.
These are embedded in the medicines of value faster than our In 2004, we invested 328 million in way we do business, and we report annually competitors, and to sell and market our community programmes, product donations on our progress against each of these products in new and innovative ways.
We will and charitable contributions.
Principles see Corporate Responsibility continue to collaborate with key stakeholders Report at www.
to nd new ways to help people receive the We believe that we have a key role to play in medicines they need.
improving access to medicines, and we are How does GSK keep its employees committed to continuing our efforts.
motivated in this challenging As now, we will aim to meet the demands environment?
of our patients, our customers and our The pharmaceutical industry JPG.
We are open with our people about the employees with integrity.
And we will generally receives a negative press.
challenges we face, the actions we are taking continue to be a company that highly talented How can GSKs reputation be and the progress being made.
Im pleased people want to join in order to make their improved?
to say that employees are highly engaged.
contribution, and to enjoy a challenging and JPG.
GSK has a very high standing among the GSK people continue to be enthusiastic and meaningful career.
The innovation show enormous passion for their company.
and quality associated with many of our initiatives is widely recognised, often through We undertook a management survey prestigious awards.
However, this is not last year.
The results showed that people feel always visible to the general public.
better about working at GSK today than they did two years ago, despite the challenging By continuing to be more open and environment.
transparent in the way we run our business, we will be able to increase our external Employees take our companys quest to bring stakeholders understanding of the industry.
medicines of value to patients very seriously Good examples include making our clinical indeed.
GSK will continue to engage and trial results available to the public by putting support our employees in driving changes them on the internet see page 9 and the through the organisation, and to recognise extension of our Patient Advocacy initiative and reward exceptional and innovative work.
see page 10 throughout the world.
New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 5 Transforming R&D In 2004, GSK invested more than 2.8 billion 15.9% of pharmaceutical turnover in Research and Development R&D Ten years ago, we conducted 500,000 screening tests in a year.
In 2004, we ran more than 65 million tests in our screening No.
1 facilities investor in R&D among UK companies Bob Hertzberg, Vice President, Molecular Screening, Discovery Research, Upper Providence, US 15,037 R&D employees worldwide GSKs continuing success depends on a Each of R&Ds seven Centres of Excellence can maximise its return on investment is vibrant and productive Research and for Drug Discovery CEDDs is focused on a through partnerships and collaborations with Development R&D function.
Because of their smaller academic institutions, and other scale and focus, the CEDDs are able to make pharmaceutical and biotechnology It takes well over 500 million and between rapid and informed decisions about whether companies.
These partnerships work on the 10 and 12 years to develop a new drug.
to progress a compound to midand lateprinciple of shared risk and reward for the For every million compounds screened, stage development.
The strength of GSKs partners, through in-licensing and third-party approximately 250 make it to pre-clinical pipeline is an early sign that this innovative arrangements.
This allows GSK to co-develop testing, 10 advance to clinical trials and just approach is working.
or co-market compounds that we consider one is approved for patient use.
would enhance our product portfolio.
Building on the successful CEDD structure, in With these odds, GSKs R&D must be fast 2004, R&D introduced six Medicine GSK is one of the largest collaborators in the and accurate in its screening, identication, Development Centres MDCs.
Their remit pharmaceutical industry, with a network of development and testing of new quality is to streamline decision-making and more than 50 collaborators partners.
compounds if it is to meet the needs of maximise the worldwide development patients.
The MDCs Pipeline momentum February 2005 are responsible for managing compounds Focus on patient needs from the proof-of-concept stage, through 160 Late-Stage 26% of 140 R&Ds starting point is always the real and midand late-stage development Phases II Growth pipeline 11 39% of unmet needs of patients.
The information and III, see page 9 to manufacturing and 120 118 pipeline gleaned from consultation with patients, marketing.
The MDCs collaborate at an early 12 43 19 their doctors, key opinion leaders and experts stage with the CEDDs.
By integrating the 80 25 in the health sector is used to shape GSKs technical development and manufacturing 34 drug development programme.
functions, GSK can ensure the rapid and 41 40 effective launch and delivery of products to 32 Innovative ways of working the patients who need them.
21 20 R&Ds exible and innovative structure, 0 2001 2004 introduced at the formation of GSK, allows it Partnerships and collaborations to concentrate resources where they will There will always be more opportunities to n Vaccines n Product Line Extensions n New Chemical Entities NCEs Phase I have the maximum impact and benefit the develop new medicines and vaccines than n NCEs Phase II n NCEs Phase III registration most patients.
One way that R&D 6 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking Using the latest in ultra high-throughput screening robotic systems at Tres Cantos in Spain, we will be able to do 300,000 experiments a day, as well as manage the large amount of information gathered Emilio Diez, Director, Discovery Research Automation Facilities Innovation and investment: By introducing innovative new ways of working and by investing in advanced technology, GSK has been able to achieve three years of sustained increase in R&D productivity.
In 2001, we had 118 projects in the clinic and in 2004 we had 140 projects in the clinic see Pipeline momentum opposite.
Imaging techniques: Imaging techniques are providing increasingly accurate predictions of the clinical effect of potential medicines early on in the development process.
The objective is to save time and money, and to increase the chances of success in the subsequent clinical trials.
Automation: The automation of our chemicalsynthesis and molecule-screening operations is intended to take up to two years off the drug discovery process.
New facilities are fully operational in Tres Cantos, Spain and in Harlow, UK.
In 2004, GSK opened a new combined facility for high-throughput screening of drug targets and high-throughput chemistry in Upper Providence, US.
R&D is using advanced technology in the search for new drugs Pharmacogenetics: Pharmacogenetics is being applied in early clinical trials to identify Electronic data capture: The greater the types of patients most likely to benefit use of electronic capture of clinical trial from a potential drug.
The goal is to define data is allowing scientists to be more more precisely the populations to be enrolled productive throughout the in subsequent, larger clinical trials.
New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 7 Delivering the pipeline GSKs product pipeline is maturing rapidly and is one of the largest in the industry My son Mario was 14 weeks old when he received his first dose of Rotarix.
I am happy I was able to give the vaccine 195 projects to Mario and to protect him against rotavirus diarrhoea in development, of which 140 are in the clinic Yolanda Cervantes and Mario, now six months old Nearly 80%increase in New Chemical Entities in the pipeline since the merger GSKs pipeline shows considerable strength.
candidate against cervical cancer, which type 2 diabetes, Entereg for post-operative At the end of February 2005, there were 140 turned out to be even better than we had bowel problems and Requip for restless legs projects in clinical development, including hoped for.
Cervarix showed a 100% efcacy in syndrome.
88 New Chemical Entities NCEs, 32 Product Phase II trials against the most common strains Line Extensions PLEs and 20 vaccines.
of the human papilloma virus HPV, which Meeting unmet medical needs cause more than 70% of cervical cancers.
GSK is making significant progress with Since the merger, the number of NCEs in Major resources are being allocated to this potential new medicines to treat depression, clinical development has increased by nearly project in 2005 in order to complete Phase III schizophrenia, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's 80% and our pipeline has matured.
In 2001, trials and to apply for a licence in early 2006. disease and migraine.
more than half our NCEs were in Phase I: by the end of February 2005, almost two-thirds New product launches in 2005 In 2004, we announced the establishment of a of our NCEs were in Phases II and III.
GSK plans to launch six new products in 2005. pre-clinical research facility in Singapore, which Two of these, Rotarix and Vesicare, have will employ a team of 30 to 35 scientists.
This We expect to see a significant increase in the already been launched.
will focus on new therapies to treat neuronumber of major new compounds entering degenerative diseases such as Alzheimers Phase III trials in the next three years.
Rotarix, our two-dose oral vaccine against disease, Parkinsons disease and schizophrenia.
rotavirus, which causes severe diarrhoea and New product extensions in 2004 vomiting in infants, was launched in Mexico Diseases of the developing world In 2004, PLEs new indications and dosage in January 2005.
This disease kills more than GSK is the only company that is developing forms for existing products continued to half a million children each year or one child medicines and vaccines to treat all three of contribute to turnover and mitigate every minute, mainly in developing countries.
the World Health Organizations top priority competition from generic medicines.
New With Rotarix, GSK pioneered its South First diseases: malaria, tuberculosis and HIV AIDS.
indications for Seretide Advair made this launch strategy, which focuses first on important asthma medicine available for use countries where there is most need.
The In 2004, GSKs pyridone project was awarded by children aged 4 to 11 years.
Kivexa Mexican government will pay for a the Medicines for Malaria Venture Project of Epizicom, a single tablet combining two vaccination campaign in order to eliminate the Year.
This potential medicine has since successful HIV treatments, was introduced, the infection.
simplifying the medication regime for patients.
Vesicare, a treatment for overactive bladder, GSK is the industry leader in HIV R&D and, was launched in the US in January 2005. for many years, our products have formed Best news in 2004 The four other new products expected to be the core of HIV AIDS treatment guidelines The best news in 2004 was the results from launched in 2005 are: Boniva a once-monthly around the world.
our clinical programme for Cervarix, a vaccine treatment for osteoporosis, Avandaryl for 8 8 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking One of the largest pipelines in the industry Number of projects in clinical trials in each therapeutic area end February 2005 Clinical Trial Register During 2004, GSK established a website called the GSK Clinical Phase I Phase II Phase III Total Trial Register to publish clinical Cardiovascular 6 8 8 22 trial data relating to marketed & Metabolic medicines.
Although prescribing Infectious diseases 2 5 4 11 information approved by regulatory authorities will Musculoskeletal, 9 6 8 23 Inammation, GI & Urology continue to guide appropriate use of GSK medicines, the 13 10 8 Neurosciences 31 Register serves as another resource for researchers, medical Oncology 2 7 5 14 professionals and the public.
Along with publications in Respiratory 3 10 6 19 medical journals and presentations at medical Vaccines 6 6 8 20 congresses, the Register demonstrates GSKs Total 41 52 47 140 commitment to ensuring the clear communication of data Phase I Evaluation of clinical pharmacology, usually conducted in volunteers.
Phase II Determination of dose and initial evaluation of efcacy, conducted in a small number of patients.
Phase III Large comparative studies compound versus placebo and or established treatment in patients to determine clinical benefit and safety.
The number of New Chemical Entities NCEs in the pipeline has increased by nearly 80% since 2001 Oct 2001 Dec 2003 Feb 2005 Phase III 8 Phase III 12 Phase III 11 Phase II 15 Phase II 32 Phase II 43 Cervarix: Our vaccine candidate against cervical cancer showed 100% efcacy in Phase Phase I 27 Phase I 38 Phase I 34 II trials against HPV 16 and 18.
Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in women 50 NCEs 82 NCEs 88 NCEs 510,000 are diagnosed and 288,000 die Developing new from the disease each year.
GSK believes that Cervarix will save many lives and has the medicines potential to be our best-selling vaccine yet.
Planned GSK pipeline lings, 2005-07 New Chemical Entities Product Line Extensions 115 Allermist Arixtra Lamictal XR TPO antagonist - low steroid rhinitis acute coronary syndrome once a day platelets Cervarix 140 Avandamet XR Requip CR HPV vac cervical cancer CCR5 antagonist - HIV once a day once a day Lapatinib: GSKs new anti-cancer compound Rotarix Radafaxine Coreg CR Trexima is designed to destroy cancer cells while vaccine - rotavirus NDRI - depression once a day migraine causing less toxic side-effects than conventional chemotherapy.
Having shown Lapatinib 381 Avandia Wellbutrin XL dual kinase inhibitor - promise in women with advanced breast COX-2 inhibitor - pain Alzheimers disease EU ling cancer cancer who had not responded to existing 381 ling date to be confirmed therapy, it is being evaluated in an expanded clinical programme.
New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 9 9 9 Sharpening our operations Commercial and operational excellence initiatives help GSK to continually improve performance Were establishing global standards for the quality of sales calls and expectations for our frontline sales managers 6 billion David Pernock, Senior Vice President, US Pharmaceuticals profit before tax grew 2% in 2004 More than 2 billion total cost savings since the merger in 2001 GSKs business comprises Pharmaceuticals Product life cycle management Summit was attended by more than 400 prescription medicines and vaccines and The Product Line Extension PLE approach people including patient group Consumer Healthcare over-the-counter allows GSK to create what is effectively an representatives from 23 countries.
medicines, oral care and nutritional entirely new drug within the life cycle of an Consumer Healthcare healthcare, supported by Global existing drug.
This offers the patient significant In 2004, Consumer Healthcare developed a Manufacturing & Supply GMS.
clinical advantages, such as increased new business strategy and operating model compliance and safety, increased efcacy The Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare designed to deliver faster sales growth.
It will and or more convenient dosage forms.
businesses aim to maximise their commercial achieve this through a vigorous focus on potential by introducing innovative products to In recent years, PLEs such as Wellbutrin XL and product innovation that is tightly aligned to as many markets as possible, accelerating the Paxil CR have helped GSK mitigate the impact consumer needs.
The new model more process of bringing new products to market, of generic medicines and have contributed to effectively links together R&D, marketing and increasing brand recognition and ensuring that pipeline momentum.
In 2004, GSK lost sales commercial operating units, organised to patients have access to new medicines.
of 1.5 billion to generic medicines, but this support three categories of brands: was partially offset by sales of PLEs worth Global brands: significant brands marketed Worldwide Sales Force Excellence 0.6 billion.
In 2005, GSK has plans to le four in multiple markets GSKs sales force ranks high in industry surveys new PLEs: Avandamet XR, Coreg CR, Requip Lead market brands: significant brands of healthcare professionals see opposite.
marketed in a few markets The Worldwide Sales Force Excellence initiative Enterprise brands: valuable local brands.
WSFE aims to improve customer satisfaction Patient Advocacy: supporting by identifying and sharing best practice within patient needs Global Manufacturing & Supply the sales force, and by strengthening sales GSKs Patient Advocacy initiative is designed GMS focuses on the secure supply of highrepresentatives product knowledge.
More to bring GSK closer to patients and advocacy quality products to meet patient expectations.
than 25,000 sales representatives have been groups, with the goal of improving GSKs It continues to deliver significant and trained through this initiative.
understanding of patient needs and sustainable efficiency improvements across its enhancing its reputation as a patient-centred network of more than 80 factories.
For The time available to physicians for learning company.
After all, there are no better example, the global programme that focuses about new medicines and clinical studies is spokespeople than patients whose lives on principles for lean manufacturing and precious.
GSKs When, Why, How approach are affected by GSK products.
technology has resulted in better process see opposite enables sales representatives to yields, improved quality and simpler business deliver patient-specic treatment options more This initiative originated in the US in 2002 but processes.
Global procurement expenditure efficiently and effectively.
has since been incorporated into GSKs has reduced due to a continued focus on lowstrategic plans throughout the world.
In 2004, cost supply and e-procurement techniques, the annual Patient Advocacy Leadership such as electronic auctions.
10 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking Harnessing natures power The turbines have contributed to the sites overall 25% reduction in its spend on energy and utilities Paul Londesborough, Site Director, Barnard Castle, pictured below GSKs Environment, Health & Safety Excellence initiative includes the long-term goal to drive down the environmental impact of manufacturing and to switch to renewable energy sources.
At Barnard Castle in the UK, two wind turbines have been installed, which are capable of providing 10% of the sites electricity when running at full speed.
Surveys of US physicians have recently rated GSK sales representatives number one in four physician specialities: Sites reduced by allergists, immunologists, paediatricians No.
Sales force ranking 29% Since the merger, GSK has reduced the number of manufacturing sites from 115 to 82 through rationalisation and operational excellence initiatives.
When, Why, How GSK has introduced a global sales call model that focuses on When a GSK medicine is appropriate, Why a physician should consider it for a patient and Delivering How to administer it appropriately.
By the end of 2004, all sales representatives in GSKs key markets commercial and had been trained in this approach.
operational excellence 300m GMSs Operational Excellence Programme has realised annualised cost savings of 300 million through operational efficiencies with its network of manufacturing sites.
New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 11 Contributing to society Our success as a company and the nature of our products enable us to invest in under-served communities around the world We would be able to do only a tiny fraction of what we do without reliable donations of medicines from 328 million companies like GSK GSKs global community investment in 2004 Curtis R. Welling, President and CEO, AmeriCares More than 100 countries benefited from humanitarian product donations from GSK GSKs biggest contribution to society is the In 2004, the sixth year of the programme, GSKs work on behavioural change continues discovery and development of medicines that 67 million albendazole treatments, worth through its award-winning Personal Hygiene help people to do more, feel better and live 7 million at wholesale cost, were donated and Sanitation Education PHASE programme longer.
Our success as a company and the to 34 countries.
Since the inception of the for children in five African and Latin American nature of our products also enable us to global elimination programme, GSK has countries.
invest in under-served communities around donated a total of 307 million albendazole the world.
treatments, reaching more than 85 million Humanitarian aid people living in endemic areas.
During 2004, GSK donated 50 million worth GSK contributes to society through active of products mainly life-saving antibiotics to engagement with numerous external Support for communities affected by more than 100 impoverished or disaster-struck stakeholders, including the World Health HIV AIDS countries through non-profit partners such as Organization and not-for-profit organisations.
2004 marked the 12th year of Positive Action, AmeriCares and Project HOPE.
GSKs We fund community-led initiatives and donate GSKs pioneering global programme that donations were critical to the medical needs of essential products to support humanitarian partners with grass-roots, community-based communities affected by the oods in efforts and community-based healthcare in organisations in 35 countries.
Positive Action Bangladesh, hurricanes in the US and the more than 100 countries.
addresses the stigma of HIV AIDS through Caribbean, typhoons in the Philippines, the education, and supports better care for people conict in Sudan and the Asian tsunami.
GSKs global community investment activities living with or affected by HIV AIDS.
During in 2004 were valued at 328 million or the 2004, Positive Action established new GSK pledged 2 million to the relief effort equivalent of 5.4% of profit before tax.
Not programmes in Latin America, Asia, and following the earthquake and tsunami in Asia, surprisingly, GSK has been recognised as the central and eastern Europe.
as well as donating more than 3.6 million largest giver of any FTSE 100 company for the doses of antibiotics and 600,000 doses of the past three years.
Preventing childhood illnesses hepatitis A vaccine.
We will continue to offer Malaria and diarrhoea cause the deaths of assistance throughout the region.
The elimination of lymphatic lariasis millions of African children each year, yet GSKs agship community programme aims to these deaths are preventable.
New malaria eliminate the disguring, mosquito-borne education programmes in eight African disease lymphatic lariasis LF from the world countries are teaching mothers about the by 2020.
GSK has committed to providing as importance of early diagnosis in children and much of the anti-parasitic drug albendazole as the value of using insecticide-treated bed nets required to treat the one billion adults and to prevent infection.
children at risk in more than 80 countries.
12 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking MORE THAN MORE THAN MILLION PEOPLE COUNTRIES 100 have been protected against 85 have benefited from GSKs LF with donated albendazole community-based support Making a difference across the world Tsunami GSK pledged 2 million as well as donating more than 50 MILLION 3.6 million doses of antibiotics and 600,000 doses of the hepatitis A value of vital medicines donated for vaccine humanitarian causes This important public-private sector collaboration established between WHO and GSK in 1997 has benefited millions of individuals in developing countries Dr LEE Jong-wook World Health Organization Elimination of lymphatic lariasis: In 2004, Egypt completed five rounds of mass drug administration in a bid to eliminate LF.
Preliminary results look impressive and it is anticipated that this ancient disease will soon be eliminated in Egypt.
New challenges, new thinking New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 13 13 Business operating review Strong performance of key products absorbs lost sales to generics Total pharmaceutical turnover grew 1% in 2004, despite the loss of 1.5 billion of sales to generic forms of Paxil and Wellbutrin.
Excluding sales of these products, turnover grew 7% In 2004, 12 GSK products each had sales of over 500million EPS 75.0 pence GSK delivered EPS growth at CER of 2%, in line with guidance The strong growth of GSKs epilepsy and bi-polar Anti-bacterial sales, reecting generic Pharmaceuticals disorder treatment Lamictal continued, with sales competition in all regions, declined 9% GSK continues to be the global leader in up 32% to 678 million.
Ongoing US growth worldwide and 24% in the US.
respiratory pharmaceuticals with sales of its three up 49% to 414 million is being driven by the key products, Seretide Advair, Flixotide Flovent In metabolic, the diabetes treatments Avandia indication for the maintenance treatment of biand Serevent, amounting to 3.4 billion, up 9%.
Avandamet continued to perform very strongly, polar disorder received last year.
Sales of Seretide Advair, the Groups largest with overall sales of 1.1 billion up 32%.
product, grew 19% to 2.5 billion, although this Sales in the US grew 26% to 852 million.
contributed to declines in Serevent and Flixotide, Encouragingly, Avandia Avandamet are also GSKs underlying growth driven its constituent products.
In the US, Advair sales growing very strongly in Europe and International by strong sales performance of grew 20% to 1.3 billion.
Growth in Europe was markets with sales up 49% and 62% respectively.
key products: also strong up 18% to 902 million.
The vaccines business had a strong year, with International sales grew 15% to 229 million Seretide Advair 2.5 billion up 19% sales up 11% to 1.2 billion.
Several key products reecting good growth in all geographic areas.
Vaccines 1.2 billion up 11% are driving sales growth Pediarix Infanrix up Central Nervous System CNS sales declined 12% to 357 million, Priorix up 14% to 95 Avandia Avandamet 1.1 billion 16% to 3.5 billion with declines in all regions.
million and Fluarix up 38% to 79 million.
up 32% Total sales of the Paxil franchise were down 39% In oncology, sales of Zofran grew 8%, driven by to 1.1 billion as a result of generic competition Lamictal 0.7 billion up 32% a strong US performance up 10% to 565 million.
to Paxil IR sales of which declined 53% to 667 Valtrex 0.6 billion up 24% million.
Mitigating this decline was the strong In cardiovascular and urogenital, Coreg sales performance of the product in Japan with sales of Coreg 0.4 billion up 34% grew 34% to 432 million.
171 million up 25% and the performance of Paxil CR which generated sales of 396 million up 14%.
Total sales of Wellbutrin products fell Within anti-virals, global HIV product sales 12% to 751 million.
Wellbutrin IR and SR sales rose 4% to 1.5 billion and sales of the herpes fell 64% to 284 million as a result of generic treatment Valtrex exceeded the 500 million competition.
This impact was partially offset, mark for the first time in 2004 up 24% to however, by the exceptionally strong 571 million.
The sales performance of Valtrex is performance of Wellbutrin XL, the new oncebeing driven by the US up 30% to 369 million daily product, which achieved sales of 467 where the product is the clear market leader in million in its first full year on the market.
14 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking These results confirm the success with which GSK has navigated a difficult year, absorbing over 1.5 billion of lost sales to generics and still managing to grow the business.
The continuing success of our key products means we can now look forward to a good performance in 2005 JP Garnier, Chief Executive officer Net of currency movements the margin declined Consumer Healthcare Several significant product launches 0.7 percentage points, reecting higher R&D The growth in Consumer Healthcare sales of planned for 2005 include: expenditure, a higher cost of goods due to a less 3% to 3.2 billion comprised an over-thefavourable product mix and higher provisions for counter OTC medicine sales increase of 2%, legal matters.
These were partially offset by cost a Nutritional healthcare sales increase of 5% Vesicare for overactive bladder savings initiatives in general and administration and Oral care sales increase of 4%.
Rotarix for rotavirus and lower charges related to programmes to OTC medicine sales were 1.5 billion, up 2%.
Boniva for osteoporosis Sales growth from smoking control products in Avandaryl for diabetes the US up 12% and Europe up 24% helped to offset the decline in dermatological products, During the years 2000 to 2003, business Requip for restless legs syndrome performance was the primary performance measure which were down 14% due to generic used by management and was presented after Entereg for post-operative bowel competition to Cutivate in the US.
excluding merger items, integration and disorders restructuring costs and disposals of businesses, as In 2004, GSK obtained the OTC marketing rights management believes that exclusion of these items provides a better comparison of business in the US for orlistat, an FDA-approved performance for the periods presented.
For 2004, prescription product for obesity management, with the completion of these programmes, the PHARMACEUTICAL TURNOVER BY marketed by Roche as Xenical.
Group is reporting results on a statutory basis only.
THERAPEUTIC AREA Growth rates are presented comparing 2004 results Oral care sales were 1.1 billion, up 4%.
Strong with 2003 business performance results as 2004 2003 Growth management considers that this gives the most m m CER% sales growth in International of 9% was led by appropriate indication of the Group's performance the Sensodyne, Polident and Poligrip brands.
for the period under review and therefore Respiratory 4,415 4,417 7 commentaries are presented on this basis unless CNS 3,463 4,455 16 Sales of Nutritional healthcare products grew otherwise stated.
Lucozade grew 7% to In order to illustrate underlying performance, it is Anti-bacterials 1,561 1,815 9 268 million.
the Groups practice to discuss its results in terms Metabolic 1,253 1,079 27 of constant exchange rate CER growth.
This Vaccines 1,196 1,123 11 represents growth calculated as if the exchange rates Trading profit used to determine the results of overseas companies Oncology and emesis 934 1,001 2 Trading profit was 6,150 million, a 1% decrease in sterling had remained unchanged from those used Cardiovascular and in the previous year.
All commentaries are presented 11% decline in sterling terms compared with in terms of CER unless otherwise stated.
The trading margin Other 1,031 1,171 7 declined two percentage points compared with 17,146 18,181 1 2003.
New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 15 Business operating review continued Main differences: Legal proceedings Earnings per share The Group is involved in patent litigation with Full year earnings per share EPS of 75.0 pence Share-based payments: Under IFRS the fair manufacturers seeking to market generic versions increased 2%, compared to business performance value of share options and awards granted of many of the Groups most important products, EPS in 2003.
In sterling terms, EPS declined 9%, to employees is charged to the income including Wellbutrin, Seretide, Avandia, Imitrex, reecting a weakening of the US dollar.
On a statement, whereas only the intrinsic loss Valtrex, Lamictal and Zofran, prior to the expiration statutory basis EPS increased 8%, but declined usually a smaller amount is charged under of the Groups patents.
The Group is currently a 3% in sterling terms.
defendant in a number of product liability lawsuits, Amortisation of intangible assets and including class actions, that involve substantial Taxation goodwill: Under IFRS amortisation of claims for damages related to the Groups GSK has open issues with the taxation authorities intangible assets may only start when the pharmaceutical products.
The Group is also a in the US, UK, Japan and Canada.
By far the asset is available for use, whereas it starts defendant in anti-trust actions led following largest relates to Glaxo heritage products, in immediately under UK GAAP.
Goodwill is adverse outcomes in prosecution of patent respect of which the US Internal Revenue Service regarded as having an indefinite life under infringement actions.
Further, the Group is IRS and UK Inland Revenue have made IFRS and is therefore not amortised.
Any UK responding to federal and state governmental competing and contradictory claims.
GAAP goodwill amortisation has to be investigations in the US into pricing, marketing and GSK has attempted to settle the US dispute, first reversed.
reimbursement of a number of prescription drug through direct discussion with the IRS and products.
See Note 30 to the Financial statements Deferred tax: The deferred tax difference subsequently through discussions between the US Legal proceedings in the Annual Report 2004 for a principally relates to intercompany items on and UK authorities under the terms of the double discussion of proceedings and governmental which a deferred tax credit is available under tax convention between the two countries and investigations in which the Group is currently UK GAAP, but not under IFRS.
This particular discussions were terminated in July 2003.
difference in taxation treatment is not January 2004, the IRS issued a Notice of expected to recur.
deficiency for the years 1989-1996 claiming International Financial Reporting additional taxes of $2.7 billion.
On 2 April 2004 Pensions and other post-employment benets: Standards IFRS the Group led a petition in the US Tax Court IFRS adopts a different valuation approach In June 2002, the Council of the European Union disputing the IRS claim and seeking a refund of than UK GAAP and this usually results in a adopted a Regulation requiring listed companies $1 billion in taxes.
On 25 January 2005 the IRS higher charge.
In addition IFRS recognises the in the EU Member States to prepare their issued a further Notice of deficiency for the years funding surplus deficit immediately through consolidated financial statements in accordance 1997-2000 claiming additional taxes of $1.9 reserves, whereas UK GAAP spreads the with International Financial Reporting Standards billion.
If the IRS claims for the years 1989-2000 surplus deficit over the members average IFRS with effect from 1 January 2005. were upheld, the Group would additionally be expected service lives through the income liable for interest on late payment, estimated to GSK initiated its IFRS conversion project in 2002 statement.
amount to $3.0 billion net of federal tax relief at and this has now been completed.
Brief 31 December 2004, giving a total of $7.6 billion.
explanations of the main IFRS adjustments to The Group expects to le a petition against these profit are given below, together with the impact further claims in April 2005, including a further on profit before tax and EPS for 2004 and 2003. claim for refund of taxes, and will ask the Tax Fuller details are given in the Annual Report 2004 Court to consolidate the IRS claims for all the and on the companys website.
EFFECT OF IFRS ON PROFIT BEFORE TAX AND EPS Business performance A provisional trial date for the 1989-1996 Statutory restated claims has been set for October 2006.
As 2004 2003 similar tax issues remain open for 2001 to date, profit profit GSK expects to receive further substantial claims before tax EPS before tax EPS from the IRS for these years.
m pence m pence UK GAAP 6,119 75.0 6,703 82.0 GSK continues to believe that the profits reported IFRS adjustments: by its US subsidiaries for the period 1989 to date, Share-based payments 309 5.5 368 5.9 on which it has paid taxes in the US, are more Amortisation of intangible assets and goodwill 54 0.9 38 0.6 than sufficient to reect the activities of its US Deferred tax on intercompany items 1.9 operations.
Pensions and other post-employment benets 36 0.4 11 GSK is in continuing discussions with the Inland Other adjustments 49 35 0.5 Revenue in respect of UK transfer pricing disputes.
IFRS 5,779 68.1 6,349 77.2 See Note 12 of Annual Report 2004 for further details.
16 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking Product overview GSKs underlying growth in 2004 was driven by the strong performance of our key products Total turnover Consumer Healthcare 16% turnover 3.2 bn, Consumer Healthcare grew 3% 20.3bn Pharmaceuticals 84% turnover grew 1%, despite the loss Pharmaceutical turnover 17.1 bn, of 1.5 billion of sales to generics grew 1% KEY PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS CONSUMER HEALTHCARE 3.2 bn GSKs Consumer Healthcare 6.5 bn business grew 3%.
turnover of five key products Top 5 Consumer Healthcare products and vaccines grew by 22% total turnover Seretide Advair Valtrex Coreg 1 Nicotine replacement therapy 341m 2,461m 571m 2 Aquafresh 329m 432m grew 19% grew 24% 3 Lucozade 268m grew 34% Strong growth has been GSKs largest selling Continues to benefit from 4 Sensodyne 213m driven by the genital herpes product for asthma and its wide range of indications 5 Panadol 208m medication in the US.
chronic obstructive in heart disease.
pulmonary disease COPD Avandia Avandamet is the sixth largest Lamictal pharmaceutical product 1,116m globally and the second 678m Over-the-counter largest in Europe.
grew 32% grew 32% grew 2% to 1,489 million GSKs diabetes treatment Indicated for epilepsy continues to perform strongly.
and bipolar disorder Nutritional healthcare Lamictal continues to grew 5% to 636 million grow strongly.
Oral healthcare grew 4% to 1,088 million VACCINES Infanrix Pediarix grew 12% to 357 million.
1,196m Fluarix GSKs vaccines business had grew 38% to 79 million.
a strong year, with sales up 11%.
12 GSK products achieved sales of more than 500 million in 2004 1 Seretide Advair 2,461m 5 Wellbutrin 751m 9 Flixotide Flovent 618m 2 Avandia Avandamet 1,116m 6 Augmentin 708m 10 Flixonase Flonase 578m 3 Seroxat Paxil 1,063m 7 Imigran Imitrex 682m 11 Valtrex 571m 4 Zofran 763m 8 Lamictal 678m 12 Combivir 571m New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 17 THE BOARD The Board of Directors is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, strategy and financial performance.
Sir Christopher Gent Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier John Coombe Lawrence Culp Sir Crispin Davis Sir Deryck Maughan Sir Ian Prosser Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Dr Lucy Shapiro Sir Robert Wilson Dr Tachi Yamada Sir Christopher Gent Aged 56 Sir Crispin Davis Aged 55 Dr Lucy Shapiro Aged 64 Chief Financial officer Designate Appointed on 1 June 2004 Appointed on 1 July 2003 Appointed on 23 May 2000 Julian Heslop Aged 51 Chairman.
Sir Christopher was the Non-Executive Director.
Sir Crispin is Non-Executive Director.
Dr Shapiro was Mr Heslop will succeed Mr Coombe Chief Executive officer of Vodafone Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC.
formerly a Non-Executive Director of as Chief Financial officer with effect plc, until his retirement in July 2003.
Prior to that, he was Chief Executive of SmithKline Beecham plc.
She is Ludwig from 1 April 2005 when he will also He is a Non-Executive Director of Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Professor of Cancer Research in the join the Board.
Mr Heslop joined Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, a Guinness plc, where he was a member Department of Developmental Biology Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller Director of the International Advisory of the main board and Group Managing and Director of the Beckman Center in April 1998.
In January 2001, Board of Hakluyt & Co, and is a Senior Director of United Distillers.
He spent for Molecular and Genetic Medicine at following the merger, he was Adviser at Bain & Co. his early career with Procter & Gamble.
the Stanford University School of appointed Senior Vice President, Medicine and a Non-Executive Director Operations Controller at GSK.
Prior to Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 57 Sir Deryck Maughan Aged 57 of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. She joining Glaxo Wellcome, he held senior Appointed on 23 May 2000 Appointed on 1 June 2004 holds a PhD in molecular biology from finance roles at Grand Metropolitan Chief Executive officer.
Dr Garnier was Non-Executive Director.
Sir Deryck was Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
appointed an Executive Director of formerly Chairman and Chief SmithKline Beecham plc in 1992, and Executive officer of Citigroup Sir Robert Wilson Aged 61 Other Directors became Chief Executive officer in April International and of Salomon Brothers Appointed on 1 November 2003 Dr Michle Barzach, Mr Donald 2000.
He is a Non-Executive Director Inc.
He serves on the Boards of Non-Executive Director.
Sir Robert is McHenry and Mr John McArthur, all of United Technologies Corporation Directors of Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group Non-Executive Directors, retired from and a member of the Board of Trustees Center and NYU Medical Center.
He is plc and the Economist Group and was the Board following the conclusion of of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships.
also an International Advisory Board previously Executive Chairman of Rio the AGM on 17 May 2004 and Sir He holds a PhD in pharmacology from member of British American Business Tinto plc.
Christopher Hogg the former the University of Louis Pasteur in Inc. and a Board member of the Chairman and Sir Peter Job, both Dr Tachi Yamada Aged 59 France and an MBA from Stanford American Academy in Berlin and the Non-Executive Directors, retired from Appointed on 1 January 2004 University in the US.
He served as the Board on 31 December 2004.
Vice Chairman of the New York Stock John Coombe Aged 59 Dr Yamada was a Non-Executive Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
Details of membership of the Board Appointed 23 May 2000.
Retiring Director, and subsequently an Executive Committees may be found in the on 31 March 2005.
Sir Ian Prosser Aged 61 Director, of SmithKline Beecham plc.
Mr Coombe Appointed on 23 May 2000 Prior to joining SmithKline Beecham he was formerly an Executive Director of Senior Independent Director.
Sir Ian was Chairman of the Department of Glaxo Wellcome plc where he was was formerly a Non-Executive Director Internal Medicine at the University of responsible for Finance and Investor of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He was Michigan Medical School and Relations.
He is a member of the Chairman and Chief Executive of Bass Physician-in-Chief of the University of Supervisory Board of Siemens AG and PLC latterly Intercontinental Hotels Michigan Medical Center.
He was a the Code Committee of the UK PLC and Chairman of the World Travel member of the Board of Directors of Takeover Panel and was appointed a & Tourism Council.
He is NondiaDexus, Inc. until December 2004 Non-Executive Director of HSBC Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc and is a Trustee of the Rockefeller Holdings plc on 1 March 2005. and a Non-Executive Director of Sara Brothers Fund.
He is also a member Lawrence Culp Aged 41 of the CBI Presidents Committee.
Corporate Appointed on 1 July 2003 Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Non-Executive Director.
Mr Culp is Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 66 Sir Christopher Gent C C President and Chief Executive officer Appointed on 23 May 2000 Mr L Culp M of Danaher Corporation.
Dr Schmitz Sir Crispin Davis M joining Danaher, he held positions in was formerly a Non-Executive Director Sir Deryck Maughan M Accenture, previously Andersen of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is a NonSir Ian Prosser M M M Consulting.
Executive Director of Legal & General Dr R Schmitz C M Group plc and a member of the Boards Dr L Shapiro M of Directors of Rohm and Haas Sir Robert Wilson M C Company and Cabot Corporation.
In addition, each Director is a member of the Corporate Administration & Transactions and Financial Results Committees.
18 18 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking THE CORPORATE EXECUTIVE TEAM The executive management of the Group is through the Corporate Executive Team CET, comprising the Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer and other senior managers.
JP Garnier Rupert Bondy Ford Calhoun John Coombe Marc Dunoyer Russell Greig Dan Phelan David Pulman David Stout Chris Viehbacher Andrew Witty Tachi Yamada Jennie Younger Jack Ziegler JP Garnier Marc Dunoyer David Stout Jennie Younger Chief Executive officer President President Senior Vice President As Chief Executive officer, JP is Pharmaceuticals Japan Pharmaceutical Operations Corporate Communications responsible for the management of Marc was appointed President, David is responsible for the global & Community Partnerships the Group.
He oversees all operational Pharmaceuticals Japan in March 2003. pharmaceuticals and vaccines Jennie is responsible for the Groups aspects including establishing policies, He joined the Group in 1999 and was businesses.
He joined SmithKline internal and external communications, objectives and initiatives, and he Senior Vice President and Regional Beecham in 1996 as head of its US its image and partnerships with global directs long-term strategy.
He was Director, Japan until his current Sales and Marketing, and was communities.
She joined Glaxo formerly Chief Executive officer of appointment.
President US Pharmaceuticals until his Wellcome in 1996 as Director of SmithKline Beecham, having joined current appointment in January 2003.
Investor Relations and was appointed Russell Greig the Group in 1990. to her current position in 2001.
In President Chris Viehbacher 2004, she won the European Women Rupert Bondy Pharmaceuticals International President of Achievement Award for Business.
Senior Vice President and General Russell leads the pharmaceutical US Pharmaceuticals Counsel operations outside the US and most Chris has been responsible for US Jack Ziegler Rupert is responsible for legal matters of Europe, covering more than 100 Pharmaceuticals since January 2003.
President across the Group, together with countries.
He joined the Group in He joined Wellcome in 1988 and Consumer Healthcare environmental, health and safety 1980 and was Senior Vice President, became Director, Continental Europe, Jack is head of the global Consumer issues, insurance and security.
He was Worldwide Business Development for at Glaxo Wellcome in 1999.
He was Healthcare business, which produces a lawyer in private practice before R&D prior to his current appointment responsible for GSKs European oral healthcare, over-the-counter joining SmithKline Beecham in 1995. in March 2003.
Pharmaceuticals business before his medicines and nutritional healthcare current appointment.
He joined SmithKline Ford Calhoun Dan Phelan Beecham in 1991 and in 1998 was Chief Information officer Senior Vice President Andrew Witty appointed President of the Consumer Ford is responsible for information Human Resources President Healthcare business.
technology, a global function that Dan is responsible for benets, Pharmaceuticals Europe enables key business processes across compensation, recruitment, Andrew has been responsible for the Julian Heslop all parts of the Group.
With doctoral organisation development, leadership Groups pharmaceuticals operations in Chief Financial officer Designate and post-doctoral training in development and succession planning, Europe since January 2003.
He joined Julian Heslop will succeed John microbiology, genetics, human resource information systems Glaxo in 1985 and at GSK was Senior Coombe as Chief Financial officer with biomathematics and computer and employee health management.
Vice President, Asia Pacic, until his effect from 1 April 2005 when he will science, he joined Smith Kline & He was a lawyer in private practice, current appointment.
Julian joined Glaxo French in 1984. before joining Smith Kline & French in Wellcome as Financial Controller in Tachi Yamada 1981 and in 1994 was appointed April 1998.
Following completion of John Coombe Chairman Senior Vice President and Director, the merger he was appointed Senior Chief Financial officer Research & Development Human Resources, SmithKline Vice President, Operations Controller.
retiring on 31 March 2005 Tachi leads the Groups complex Beecham.
As head of the finance function, business of drug discovery and Other members John is responsible for activities such David Pulman development, creating new medicines Robert Ingram continues to work partas financial reporting and control, President through research.
He joined time as Vice Chairman of tax and treasury, investor relations, Global Manufacturing & Supply SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a NonPharmaceuticals, acting as a special finance systems, internal audit and David is responsible for the Global Executive member of the Board and advisor to the Group, and attends CET real estate.
He joined Glaxo in 1986 Manufacturing and Supply became Chairman, R&D, meetings in that capacity.
as Group Financial Controller and was organisation and Global Procurement.
He was appointed Group Finance Director He joined Glaxo in 1978 and was appointed to the Board of Directors on in 1992. responsible for the North American 1 January 2004. supply network, manufacturing strategy and logistics until his current appointment in 2002.
New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 19 19 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT for the year to 31 December 2004 Overall, the policy is intended to provide median total remuneration for Introduction median performance.
Poor performance will result in total remuneration signicantly below the pay comparator group median, with the opportunity The Summary Remuneration Report sets out the annual remuneration to earn upper quartile total remuneration for exceptional performance.
of the Board earned in 2004, together with any gains under long-term incentive arrangements.
It also describes the background and outlines the This strong alignment with performance is demonstrably in the interests of Groups remuneration policy, together with the performance graph required shareholders and provides the Executives with unambiguous signals about by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
the importance of delivering success to the Companys shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for making COMMITMENT recommendations to the Board on the Companys remuneration policy and, The Committee will apply this policy on a consistent and transparent basis.
within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual Any significant change will be discussed with shareholders in advance of remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and members of the implementation.
The members of the Committee are set out on page 18.
PAY AND PERFORMANCE COMPARATORS The Committee has developed the remuneration policy to align executive The following table sets out the companies used for pay and performance remuneration with the interests of shareholders whilst meeting the comparison: imperative of recruiting and retaining the executive talent essential to the Market leadership of the Company.
Capitalisation 31.12.04 Company Country m The remuneration policy was nalised after undertaking an extensive consultation process with shareholders and institutional bodies during the Abbott Laboratories US 37,840 course of 2003 and 2004.
AstraZeneca UK 31,075 Bristol-Myers Squibb US 25,962 The remuneration policy is designed to establish a framework for Eli Lilly US 33,448 remuneration which is consistent with the Companys scale and scope of GlaxoSmithKline UK 71,704 operations, meets the recruitment needs of the business and is closely Johnson & Johnson US 98,028 aligned with shareholder guidelines.
Merck US 37,123 Novartis Switzerland 70,077 Deloitte & Touche LLP have been appointed by the Committee to provide it Pzer US 105,473 with independent advice on executive remuneration.
Roche Holdings Switzerland 42,122 Sano-Aventis France 57,954 Schering-Plough US 16,016 Remuneration policy Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Japan 23,323 Wyeth US 29,596 PRINCIPLES The Committee has established four core principles which underpin the The merger of Aventis and Sano-Synthelabo during 2004 reduced the new remuneration policy for GSK.
These are: size of the comparator group to 13 companies and GSK.
The Committee subsequently determined that for a number of reasons, including focus of securing outstanding executive talent: operation and market capitalisation, there was no other suitable company pay for performance and only for performance: to add to the group.
robust and transparent governance structures: and a commitment to be a leader of good remuneration practice in the pharmaceutical industry.
In formulating the policy, the Committee decided that: the remuneration structure must support the business in a very competitive market place: UK shareholder guidelines will be followed to the maximum extent consistent with the needs of the business and the Company would maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders: global pharmaceutical companies are the primary pay comparator group: performance conditions would be based on the measurable delivery of strong financial performance and the delivery of superior returns to shareholders as compared with other pharmaceutical companies: a high proportion of the total remuneration opportunity will be based on performance-related remuneration, which will be delivered over the medium-term to long-term: and no ex-gratia payments will be made.
20 20 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT for the year to 31 December 2004 GSKS EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION CONSISTS OF THE FOLLOWING Performance is measured over the three financial years following the COMPONENTS: grant of an option.
The Committee has decided for the 2004 grant that there will be no performance retesting, so if the performance condition is BASE SALARY not met after the three-year period, the option will lapse.
Base salaries will be set by reference to the median for the relevant market.
For Executives this is the pharmaceutical pay comparator group.
Base salary The performance criteria relating to performance shares and share options is the only element of remuneration that is xed.
awarded and granted prior to 2004 are given in the Annual Report 2004.
ANNUAL BONUS PENSIONS All bonuses are determined on the basis of a formal review of annual The Executives participate in GSK senior executive pension plans.
The performance against stretching financial targets based on profit before pension arrangements are structured in accordance with the plans operated interest and tax and are subject to detailed assessment of individual, for Executives in the country in which the Executives are likely to retire.
business unit and group achievements against objectives.
Benets are normally payable at age 60, although it has been agreed that Dr Yamada will retire at age 62.
In setting the bonus awards for 2004, the Committee took into account the achievement of management in maintaining growth on a CER basis, whilst absorbing 1.5 billion of lost sales to generics.
Executive Director terms and LONG-TERM INCENTIVES conditions The remuneration policy provides that annual long-term incentive awards will normally be made up of a performance share award and a share option The policy regarding the Executive Directors contracts was the subject award.
The remuneration policy places greater emphasis on the use of of extensive review and change during 2003.
This resulted in a new performance shares rather than share options.
framework for contracts for Executive Directors appointed in the future.
The Committee has considered which performance conditions should be Dr Garnier, Mr Coombe and Dr Yamada agreed to changes in their applied to the long-term incentives.
The Committee concluded that it was contractual terms without compensation to bring their contractual appropriate to measure performance using a combination of absolute terms broadly in line with the new contractual framework, including the financial results based on earnings per share - EPS and the delivery of reduction of contractual notice period from 24 to 12 calendar months.
superior value to shareholders based on Total Shareholder Return - TSR.
However, to honour certain aspects of their old contractual terms, there are a number of individual features which will be retained.
In the event For the Executives, the level of performance shares vesting is based on of early termination by the Company, Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada would the Companys TSR relative to the performance comparator group over receive a cash sum equivalent to the total of their annual salary, on target a three-year measurement period.
In respect of the awards granted in bonus and pension contributions for the 12 months notice period.
2004, if GSK is ranked at position 7 the mid-point of the performance Mr Coombe will retire from the company on 31 March 2005. comparator group, 35% of the shares will vest and if it is below that position then none of the shares will vest.
Only if GSK is one of the top two companies will all of the shares vest.
When determining vesting levels, the TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH Committee will have regard for the Companys underlying financial The graph below sets out the performance of the Company relative performance.
to the FTSE 100 index of which the Company is a constituent and, for information, to the median of the performance comparator group since The share options granted in 2004 to the Executives are linked to the the merger on 27 December 2000.
The graph has been prepared in achievement of compound annual EPS growth in excess of the Retail accordance with the Regulations and is not an indication of the likely Prices Index RPI over the performance period, which is the three years vesting of awards granted under any of the Companys incentive plans.
following the grant of an option.
When setting EPS targets, the Committee considers the Companys internal 100 projections and analysts forecasts for GSKs EPS performance, as well as analysts forecasts for the pharmaceutical industry.
90 For the 2004 grant, vesting increases on a straight-line basis for EPS 80 performance between the hurdles set out in the table below.
70 Annualised Percentage of growth in EPS award vesting 60 31 12 00 31 12 01 31 12 02 31 12 03 31 12 04 RPI 5% 100% GlaxoSmithKline Total Return FTSE 100 Total Return Index RPI 4% 75% GlaxoSmithKline Pharma Peers Return Index RPI 3% 50% RPI 3% 0% This performance condition is substantially consistent with UK shareholder guidelines and expectations and is demanding when compared with those operated by other global pharmaceutical companies.
This is consistent with the policy of providing pay for performance and only for performance.
New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 21 21 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT for the year to 31 December 2004 Annual remuneration 2004 2003 Total Total Fees and Other Annual annual annual salary benets bonus remuneration remuneration Directors of GSK 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Dr JP Garnier $1,523 $786 $2,250 $4,559 $4,570 Dr T Yamada $725 $577 $1,001 $2,303 Mr J Coombe 506 9 515 1,237 Total Executive Directors 1,734 754 1,777 4,265 4,024 Current Non-Executive Directors Mr L Culp $97 $97 $48 Sir Deryck Maughan $57 $57 Dr L Shapiro $182 $182 $179 Sir Christopher Gent 175 175 Sir Crispin Davis 57 57 29 Sir Ian Prosser 65 65 66 Dr R Schmitz 72 72 67 Sir Robert Wilson 66 66 10 Total Current Non-Executive Directors 618 618 310 Former Non-Executive Directors Mr J McArthur $42 $18 $60 $102 Mr D McHenry $42 $42 $106 Mr P Allaire 28 Dr M Barzach 78 78 107 Sir Christopher Hogg 369 1 370 374 Sir Roger Hurn 50 Sir Peter Job 57 57 57 Sir Richard Sykes 1 1 958 Total Former Non-Executive Directors 550 12 562 1,701 Total Non-Executive Directors 1,168 12 1,180 2,011 Total remuneration 2,902 766 1,777 5,445 6,035 Remuneration for Directors on the US payroll is reported in Dollars.
Amounts have been converted to Sterling at the average exchange rates for the year.
Following the merger, those participants in the legacy schemes who elected to exchange their legacy options for options over GSK shares were granted an additional cash benefit equal to 10% of the grant price of the original option.
This additional benefit is known as the Exchange Offer Incentive EOI and is only payable when the new option is exercised or lapses above market value.
To qualify for this additional cash benefit, participants would have had to retain these options until at least the second anniversary of the effective date of the merger.
During the year Dr Garnier received $335,730 2003 $299,311 relating to options exercised under the EOI.
Those amounts are included in other benets in the table above.
In addition to the remuneration received as a former Director, as set out above, Sir Richard Sykes received 20,417 2003 49,000 for the period 1 January to 30 May 2004 relating to his appointment as Senior Advisor.
Non-Executive Directors are required to receive a significant part of their fees in the form of shares or ADSs and may also elect to invest part or all of the balance of their fees in the form of shares or ADSs.
The value of these shares and ADSs at the dates of award are included in fees and salary above.
These shares and ADSs are not paid out until the Director leaves the Board.
Dr Barzach, Mr McHenry and Mr McArthur left the Board on 17 May 2004.
Sir Christopher Hogg and Sir Peter Job left the Board on 31 December 2004.
These Directors elected to receive their full entitlement on leaving the Board.
In addition to annual compensation, GSK operates share plans to provide incentives to Executive Directors to achieve longer-term growth in shareholder value.
Gains under such plans are recognised on exercise or maturity of the award, but reect value earned over a period of years.
The timing of exercise is normally at the discretion of the Director.
Gains in 2004 on exercise of options were: share option plans 3,618,060 2003 3,097,260 : long-term incentive plan nil 2003 256,134 : Performance Share Plan PSP 475,149 2003 nil.
Dr Garnier deferred receipt of PSPs vesting in 2004 with a value at vesting of $1,496,608.
Full details of the awards granted under the Companys share plans during 2004 may be found in the Annual Report 2004.
In 2001, following the merger, Dr Garnier, Mr Coombe and Dr Yamada were awarded a one-off special deferred bonus as members of the CET.
Each was awarded an amount equivalent to his salary on 31 December 2001 and this was notionally invested in GSK shares or ADSs on 15 February 2002.
The amount of the bonus vesting on 15 February 2005 was equivalent to the then value of shares or ADSs notionally acquired in February 2002 plus dividends reinvested over the period.
These amounts were paid in February 2005 and are not included in the table above.
Mr Coombe has waived his entitlements to the 2001 special deferred bonus of 383,924 and 2004 annual bonus of 650,370.
The Company will make a contribution to the pension plan of 1,034,294 in 2005 to enhance his pension entitlement.
The accrued annual benets under the dened benefit pension schemes operated by the Group were: Dr Garnier $1,039,718 541,520 : Mr Coombe 345,417: and Dr Yamada $165,000 85,938.
In addition, Dr Garnier and Dr Yamada are members of a money purchase scheme into which contributions of $66,173 36,160 and $82,057 44,840, respectively, were paid during 2004.
None of the above Directors received expenses during the year requiring separate disclosure as dened by the Regulations.
22 22 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Governance and policy The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and the appointment of members of the Board and the THE BOARD AND CORPORATE EXECUTIVE TEAM CET, and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The The Directors are listed under The Board on page 18.
Committee also monitors the planning of succession to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate governance Directors, of whom a majority are independent, and meets at least once and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, strategy and a year to consider succession planning and otherwise as necessary.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE The CEO is responsible for executive management of the Group and is The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive assisted in this by the CET.
The CET meets 11 times per year and otherwise Directors and provides a Board level forum for the regular review of as necessary.
The members and their responsibilities are listed under external issues that have the potential for serious impact upon the Groups Corporate Executive Team on page 19. business and reputation and the oversight of reputation management.
The Committee is also responsible for annual governance oversight of the The Board comprises three Executive and eight Non-Executive Directors.
Groups worldwide donations and community support.
The Committee Whilst the Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be meets formally three times a year and otherwise as necessary.
independent in character and judgement, it has determined that Dr Shapiro should not be considered as independent under the Combined FINANCIAL RESULTS COMMITTEE Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code.
This is The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of the due to the remuneration that she receives from the Group as a member Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review and the of the GSK scientific Advisory Board.
convening of the AGM, together with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
Each Director is a member of the Committee The Board considers that Mr Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Maughan, and the quorum for a meeting is any three members.
To be quorate, each Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz and Sir Robert Wilson are independent under meeting must include the Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit the Combined Code.
Sir Ian Prosser is the Senior Independent Director.
Committee and the CEO or the CFO.
The Committee meets as necessary.
At the date of publication and throughout 2004, a majority of the Board CORPORATE ADMINISTRATION & TRANSACTIONS COMMITTEE members, excluding the Chairman, were independent Non-Executive The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews and Directors, in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined approves matters in connection with the administration of the Groups Code.
business, and of certain corporate transactions.
The Committee consists of the Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary.
The Committee BOARD PROCESS meets as necessary.
The Board meets at least six times a year.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision but otherwise delegates specic responsibilities REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS to Board committees, as described below.
The Board works to an agreed Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in the Summary business agenda in reviewing the key activities of the business, and receives Remuneration Report on pages 20 to 22. papers and presentations to enable it to do so effectively.
The Board considers and reviews the work undertaken by its Committees.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The Company Secretary is Mr Simon Bicknell who was appointed in May 2000.
He is a barrister and joined the Group in 1984.
He is secretary to all the Board Committees.
BOARD COMMITTEES AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting process, the system of internal control and management of risks and the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also proposes to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
It meets at least four times a year.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive remuneration policy.
It meets at least four times a year and otherwise as necessary.
New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 23 23 RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTS Annual Review Corporate governance The Annual Review is a summary report and does not contain sufficient The Combined Code on Corporate Governance is specified by the Listing information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state Rules of the Financial Services Authority for the guidance of listed of affairs of the Group as is provided by the Annual Report 2004. companies Combined Code.
The Board considers that throughout 2004 Shareholders requiring more detailed information may obtain, free of and up to the date of approval of this review, GlaxoSmithKline plc applied charge, a copy of the Annual Report 2004 and may also elect to receive the principles of the Combined Code and, with the exception of matters a copy of the Annual Report in future years refer to Shareholder where the Companys position is described in the Annual Report, complied information.
with the provisions of the Combined Code, and the guidance on internal control issued by the 1998 Turnbull Committee.
The Independent Auditors report on the full financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2004 is unqualied and does The Annual Review, including Summary financial statements, has been not contain any statement concerning inadequate accounting records approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by or failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
Sir Christopher Gent Chairman 2 March 2005 Summary financial statements A columnar presentation has been adopted in the Summary consolidated profit and loss account in order to illustrate 2004 statutory performance Independent auditors against 2003 business performance.
During the years 2000 to 2003, statement to the members business performance was the primary performance measure used by management and was presented after excluding merger items, integration of GlaxoSmithKline plc and restructuring costs and disposals of businesses.
Management believed that exclusion of these items provided a better comparison of the way in We have examined the Summary financial statements which comprise which the business was managed and gave an indication of the the Summary consolidated profit and loss account, Summary consolidated performance of the Group in terms of those elements of revenue and balance sheet and Summary consolidated cash ow statement and the expenditure which local management was able to inuence.
For 2004, Summary Report of the Directors including the Summary Remuneration with the completion of these programmes, the Group is reporting results on Report.
Growth rates are presented comparing 2004 statutory results with 2003 business performance results.
Management RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS considers that the comparison of 2004 statutory results with 2003 business The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance performance results gives the most appropriate indication of the Groups with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the performance for the period under review.
consistency of the Summary financial statements within the Annual Review with the Annual financial statements, the Report of the Directors and the In 2004, the Group adopted UITF Abstract 38 and the revised Abstract 17 Directors Remuneration Report, and its compliance with the relevant relating to shares held by the ESOP Trusts and share options and awards.
requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 Comparative information for 2003 has been restated accordingly.
Trading and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information profit and profit before tax in 2003 have been reduced by 16 million and contained in the Annual Review and consider the implications for our report net assets at 31 December 2003 by 2,661 million.
if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial statements.
Earnings and shareholders funds are also restated in accordance with US GAAP as additional information provided to US shareholders.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any Statement by the Directors other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
The Annual Review 2004 is the Summary Directors report and includes the Summary financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended BASIS OF OPINION 31 December 2004, which is published in hard-copy printed form and on We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors the website.
The Business operating review, the Summary financial statements, statement on the Summary financial statement issued by the Auditing the Summary Remuneration Report and the Statement on corporate Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
governance are summaries of information in the Annual Report 2004.
OPINION The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the In our opinion the Summary financial statements are consistent with Annual Review on the website in accordance with the UK legislation the Annual financial statements, the Report of the Directors and the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Remuneration Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable 31 December 2004 and comply with the applicable requirements of Section legislation may be different.
251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Embankment Place, London, England.
2 March 2005 24 24 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Summary consolidated profit and loss account 2004 2003 Business performance Merger, restructuring and Statutory Statutory Growth restated disposal of subsidiaries restated m CER% m m m Turnover Pharmaceuticals 17,146 1 18,181 18,181 Consumer Healthcare 3,213 3 3,260 3,260 Total turnover 20,359 1 21,441 21,441 Cost of sales 4,309 7 4,188 356 4,544 Selling, general and administrative expenditure 7,061 2 7,579 18 7,597 Research and development expenditure 2,839 8 2,770 21 2,791 Trading profit 6,150 1 6,904 395 6,509 Other operating income expenses 60 133 133 Disposal of interests in associates 138 profits of joint ventures and associates 95 93 93 Loss profit on disposal of products and businesses 1 5 5 Net interest payable 203 161 161 profit before taxation 6,119 2 6,703 390 6,313 Taxation 1,701 1,838 109 1,729 profit after taxation 4,418 1 4,865 281 4,584 Minority interests 114 94 94 Preference share dividends 2 12 12 Earnings 4,302 1 4,759 281 4,478 Earnings per share pence 75.0p 2 82.0p 4.9p 77.1p Dividends Per share 42.0p 41.0p Total 2,402 2,374 During the years 2000 to 2003, business performance was the primary management performance measure and was presented after excluding merger items, integration and restructuring costs and disposal of businesses.
For 2004, the Group is reporting results on a statutory basis.
Management considers that the comparison of 2004 statutory results and 2003 business performance gives the most appropriate indication of the groups performance for the period.
Summary consolidated balance sheet 2003 2004 restated m m Fixed assets 8,945 8,575 Current assets 13,633 12,625 Creditors: amounts due within one year 8,722 8,471 Net current assets 4,911 4,154 Total assets less current liabilities 13,856 12,729 Creditors: amounts due after one year 4,625 3,883 Provisions for liabilities and charges 3,029 3,042 Net assets 6,202 5,804 Capital and reserves Equity shareholders funds 5,925 5,059 Minority interests 277 745 Capital employed 6,202 5,804 Summary consolidated cash ow statement 2003 2004 restated m m Net cash inow from operating activities 6,527 7,005 Dividends from joint ventures and associated undertakings 11 1 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 252 231 Taxation paid 1,583 1,917 Capital expenditure and financial investment 1,035 954 Acquisitions and disposals 69 12 Equity dividends paid 2,475 2,333 Management of liquid resources and nancing 867 1,586 Increase decrease in cash in the year 257 27 New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 25 25 SUMMARY INFORMATION UNDER US GAAP for the year to 31 December 2004 The following is a summary of the material adjustments to profit and shareholders funds which would be required if US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles US GAAP had been applied instead of UK GAAP.
profit 2003 2004 restated m m profit attributable to shareholders under UK GAAP 4,302 4,478 US GAAP adjustments: Product rights and goodwill 1,620 2,371 Fixed assets 19 28 Inventory 13 Disposal of interests in associates and subsidiaries 78 Equity investments 30 31 Employee costs 458 494 Derivative instruments and hedging 33 41 Guarantor obligations 19 21 Restructuring 12 98 Taxation 651 774 Variable interest entities and minority shareholders put option 43 Net income under US GAAP 2,732 2,420 Basic income per share under US GAAP 47.6p 41.7p Diluted income per share under US GAAP 47.5p 41.6p Equity shareholders funds 2003 2004 restated m m Equity shareholders funds under UK GAAP 5,925 5,059 US GAAP adjustments: Product rights and goodwill 31,976 33,638 Fixed assets 223 243 Marketable securities 49 84 Other investments 554 832 Inventory 1 Employee costs 1,185 1,574 Derivative instruments 15 26 Guarantor obligations 2 21 Restructuring 80 92 Dividends 683 808 Deferred taxation 4,204 5,071 Variable interest entities and minority shareholders put option 43 Shareholders equity under US GAAP 34,042 34,116 A summary of the material differences between UK and US GAAP that apply to the Group is set out in the Annual Report 2004.
During the year, the Group implemented FASB Staff Position FSP FAS 106-2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 the Act, superseding FSP 106-1.
FSP 106-2 addresses the accounting implications of the Act for an entity that sponsors a post-retirement health care plan providing prescription drug benets.
26 26 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHARE PRICE INFORMATION Ordinary shares Share price information is available on the website at www.
Information made available on the website does not constitute part of The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE.
Information in the UK is also available on Ceefax, REGISTRAR Teletext, and from FT Cityline by calling 0906 003 5694 or 0906 843 5694 The Companys share register is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars, calls charged at 60p a minute plus VAT at all times.
which also provides the following services: GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan enables shareholders to reinvest quarterly dividends and or make monthly investments in the Company's Share buy-back programme ordinary shares using a special dealing arrangement.
In October 2002, following the completion of the first 4 billion share GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account is a tax-efficient way buy-back programme announced in 2001, the Company announced plans to invest in the Companys ordinary shares.
for a new 4 billion share buy-back programme.
Of this second programme GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee provides a facility 219 million was accounted for in 2002, 980 million in 2003 and for shareholders to hold shares without the need for share certicates.
The programme covers purchases by the Company Shareholders details will not be held on the main share register, and so of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority given by shareholders at the AGM in 2004. will remain condential.
Shareview service provides shareholders with information on their In May 2004 the Company was authorised to purchase a maximum of investment in the Company.
Shareholders may register for this service 594.6 million shares 600 million shares in May 2003.
18 million shares were purchased for cancellation and 70 million shares were purchased to be held as Treasury shares see Note 27 to the Financial Shareview dealing service is a telephone and internet share dealing statements, Share capital and share premium account in the Companys facility available to ordinary shareholders by logging on to Annual Report 2004.
The exact amount and timing of future purchases, www.
co. uk dealing or by calling 0870 850 0852. and the extent to which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather than being cancelled, will be determined by the Company and is dependent on market conditions and other factors.
American Depositary Shares The Companys shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs and these are evidenced SmithKline Beecham plc Floating by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, each one of which represents two ordinary shares.
Rate Unsecured Loan Stock 1990 2010 In general, the NYSEs rules permit the Company to follow UK corporate governance practices instead of those that apply in the US, provided The loan stock is not listed on any exchange but holders may require that the Company explains any significant variations.
This explanation is SmithKline Beecham plc to redeem their loan stock at par, i. e. 1 for every provided on the Companys website.
1 of loan stock held, on the first business day of March, June, September and December.
Holders wishing to redeem all or part of their loan stock ADR PROGRAMME ADMINISTRATOR should complete the notice on the back of their loan stock certicate and The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York, which return it to the registrar, to arrive at least 30 days before the relevant provides Global BuyDIRECT, a direct ADS purchase sale and dividend redemption date.
reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
SHARE DEALING SERVICE Hoare Govett Limited operates a postal dealing service in the Companys Cautionary statement ordinary shares.
It enables investors to buy or sell shares at competitive commission charges.
Transactions are executed and settled by Pershing Under the safe harbor provisions of the US Private Securities Litigation Securities Limited.
Further details of this service, together with purchase Reform Act of 1995, the Company cautions investors that any forwardand sale forms, may be obtained by telephoning 44 0 207 661 6555. looking statements or projections made by the Company, including those made in this Annual Review, are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.
Factors that Smith Barney, part of Citigroup, also offers a share dealing service in the may affect the Groups operations are described under Legal proceedings Companys ordinary shares and ADSs.
Further details of this service can be and Risk factors in the Companys Annual Report 2004. obtained by contacting their ofces in the UK or US see contact details on the inside back cover for further information.
The provision of the details above are not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
Advice on share dealing, should be obtained from a stockbroker or independent financial adviser.
New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 27 27 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION continued Financial reporting Dividends FINANCIAL REPORTING CALENDAR 2005 GSK pays dividends quarterly.
Announcement of 1st Quarter Results 28 April 2005 The Board has declared dividends for 2004 as follows: Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results 28 July 2005 2004 2003 Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results 27 October 2005 Dividends per share pence pence Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results 9 February 2006 First interim paid 1 July 2004 10 9 Publication of Annual Report Review March 2006 Second interim paid 30 September 2004 10 9 Third interim paid 6 January 2005 10 9 RESULTS ANNOUNCEMENTS Fourth interim payable 7 April 2005 12 14 Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange, and Total 42 41 made available on their news service, and at the same time, or shortly afterwards, they are issued to the media, are made available on the website As a guide to holders of ADRs, the table below sets out the dividends paid and are submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US per ADS in US dollars in the last five years.
The dividends are adjusted for and the New York Stock Exchange.
UK tax credit less withholding tax, where applicable, and are translated into US dollars at applicable exchange rates.
FINANCIAL REPORTS The Company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor not needing Since 6 April 1999, claims for refunds of tax credits on dividends from the the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review.
These are available on the UK tax authorities are of negligible benefit to US shareholders.
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders on the date of publication.
Shareholders may also elect to receive the Report by writing to Year GSK $ GW $ SB $ the Companys registrars.
Alternatively, shareholders may elect to receive 2004 1.53 notication by email of the publication of financial reports by registering on 2003 1.39 www.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on 2002 1.24 the website.
Printed copies can be obtained from the Registrar in the UK and 2001 1.11 from the Customer Response Center in the US.
2000 1.10 0.87 PUBLICATIONS This year, GSK is again producing a Corporate Responsibility Report covering Dividends paid to Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham ADR holders are performance in areas including community investment, business ethics and expressed as dividends per GSK ADS.
integrity, access to medicines, R&D and environment health and safety.
The report will be published on the website at the end of March.
DIVIDEND CALENDAR Fourth quarter 2004 Ex-dividend date 16 February 2005 Record date 18 February 2005 Share price Payable 7 April 2005 2004 2003 Share price First quarter 2005 At 1 January 12.80 11.92 Ex-dividend date 11 May 2005 High during the year 12.99 13.90 Record date 13 May 2005 Low during the year 10.42 10.00 Payable 7 July 2005 At 31 December 12.22 12.80 Decrease Increase over year 5 % 7% Second quarter 2005 Ex-dividend date 3 August 2005 The table above sets out the middle market closing prices derived from the Record date 5 August 2005 London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List.
The Companys share price Payable 6 October 2005 decreased by 5% in 2004 from a price of 12.80 at 1 January 2004 to Third quarter 2005 12.22 at 31 December 2004.
This compares with an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 8% during the year.
Ex-dividend date 2 November 2005 Record date 4 November 2005 Payable 5 January 2006 MARKET CAPITALISATION The market capitalisation of GSK at 31 December 2004 was 72 billion.
Annual General Meeting 2005 At that date GSK was the fourth largest company by market capitalisation on the FTSE index.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 25 May 2005.
28 28 GSK Annual Review 2004 GSK Annual Review 2004 New challenges, new thinking Internet Our Reports ANNUAL REVIEW Information for investors and about the A review of major company is available on GSKs corporate communication website at www.
com themes for 2004 and an abridged version of the financial results.
Head Ofce and Registered Ofce GlaxoSmithKline plc 980 Great West Road Brentford Middlesex TW8 9GS Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5000 ANNUAL REPORT The full Financial statements for the year United Kingdom United States of America ended 31 December Investor relations Investor relations 2004.
980 Great West Road One Franklin Plaza Brentford PO Box 7929 Middlesex TW8 9GS Philadelphia PA 19101 Tel: 44 0 20 8047 5557 5558 Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free Fax: 44 0 20 8047 7807 Tel: 1 215 751 7003 outside the US Fax: 1 215 751 3233 Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars ADR programme administrator The Causeway The Bank of New York Our Corporate Responsibility Worthing Shareholder Relations Report may be found online at West Sussex BN99 6DA PO Box 11258 www.
co. uk Church Street Station New York NY 10286-1258 General enquiries, Annual Report orderline www.
com and Corporate Nominee service Tel: 1 877 353 1154 toll free Tel: 0870 600 3991 inside the UK Tel: 1 610 382 7836 outside the US Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 outside the UK Customer Response Center Shareholder Investment Plans Tel: 1 888 825 5249 toll free Produced by Corporate Communications, GSK.
Dividend re-investment enquiries Design consultancy by salterbaxter.
Tel: 0870 241 3018 inside the UK Corporate share dealing facility Tel: 44 0 121 415 7067 Smith Barney Printed in the UK by St. Ives Direct Edenbridge Ltd. outside the UK Ordinary holders Attention: GSK Services The paper used in the production of this document is Tel: 44 0 121 415 7146 53 State Street made from pulps harvested from sustainable forests, also using sawmill residues and forest thinnings.
It is outside the UK Employees 39th Floor elemental chlorine-free.
Boston Monthly Savings Plan enquiries MA 02109 Brand names appearing in italics throughout this publication are trademarks either owned by and or Tel: 0870 606 0268 inside the UK Tel: 1 800 347 6179 toll free licensed to GSK or associated companies, with the Tel: 44 0 131 527 3746 outside the UK Tel: 1 617 589 3341 outside the US exception of Boniva Bonviva, a trademark of Roche, Fax: 1 617 589 3474 and Entereg, a trademark of Adolor Corporation, ISA enquiries Email: TheTaylorGroup@SmithBarney.
com both of which are used under licence by the Group.
Tel: 0870 242 4244 inside the UK Tel: 44 0 190 385 4062 outside the UK Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham corporate PEPs The Share Centre Limited Oxford House Oxford Road Aylesbury Bucks HP21 8SZ Tel: 44 0 129 641 4144 Corporate share dealing facility Smith Barney Attention: GSK Services Citigroup Centre, Level 20 Canada Square, Canary Wharf London E14 5LB Tel: 44 0 20 7508 1795 Fax: 44 0 20 7890 7281 Email: TheBalaesGroup@Citigroup.
com New challenges, new thinking GSK Annual Review 2004 29 www www.
