GlaxoSmithKline 175 Shareholder information Ordinary shares Share price information Share price information is available on the company's website at The company's shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Information in the UK is also available on Ceefax, Teletext, and from FT Cityline by calling 0906 003 5694 or 0906 Registrar 843 5694 calls charged at 60p a minute plus VAT at all times.
The company's share register is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars, who also provide the following services: Annual General Meeting 2005 GlaxoSmithKline Investment Plan The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, 25th May 2005 The plan enables shareholders to reinvest quarterly dividends Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, and or make monthly investments in the company's ordinary London SW1P 3EE shares using a special dealing arrangement.
GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account The Annual General Meeting is the company's principal forum for The GlaxoSmithKline Individual Savings Account ISA is a communication with private shareholders.
In addition to the formal tax-efficient way to invest in the company's ordinary shares.
resolutions to be put to the meeting, there will be a presentation by the Chief Executive officer on the performance of the business GlaxoSmithKline Corporate Sponsored Nominee and its future development.
There will be opportunity for questions The corporate sponsored nominee provides a facility for to the Board, and the Chairmen of the Board's committees will shareholders to hold shares without the need for share take questions on matters relating to those committees.
Shareholders' details will not be held on the main share register, and so will remain condential.
Investors holding shares in the company through a nominee service should arrange with that nominee service to be appointed as a Shareview service corporate representative or proxy in respect of their shareholding The shareview portfolio service provides shareholders with in order to attend and vote at the meeting.
information on their investment in the company.
Shareholders may register for this service at www.
ADR holders wishing to attend the meeting must obtain a proxy from The Bank of New York which will enable them to attend the Shareview Dealing service meeting and vote on the business to be transacted.
ADR holders Shareview Dealing Service is a telephone and internal share may instruct The Bank of New York as to the way in which the dealing facility available to ordinary shareholders by logging on shares represented by their ADRs should be voted by completing to www.
co. uk dealing or by calling 0870 850 0852. and returning the voting card provided by the bank in accordance with the instructions given.
American Depositary Shares The company's shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Financial reporting in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs and these are Financial reporting calendar 2005 evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs, each one of Announcement of 1st Quarter Results 28th April 2005 which represents two ordinary shares.
Announcement of 2nd Quarter Results 28th July 2005 ADR programme administrator Announcement of 3rd Quarter Results 27th October 2005 The ADR programme is administered by The Bank of New York, Preliminary Announcement of Annual Results 9th February 2006 and provides the Global BuyDIRECT service which is a direct ADS Publication of Annual Report Review March 2006 purchase sale and dividend reinvestment plan for ADR holders.
Share dealing facility Results Announcements Hoare Govett Limited operates a postal share dealing service in The Results Announcements are issued to the London Stock the companys ordinary shares.
It enables investors to buy or sell Exchange, and are available on their news service.
At the same shares at competitive commission charges.
Transactions are time, or shortly afterwards, they are issued to the media, made executed and settled by Pershing Securities Limited.
Further details available on the website and sent to the US Securities and of this service together with purchase and sale forms may be Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange.
Financial reports Smith Barney, part of Citigroup, also offers a share dealing service The company publishes an Annual Report and, for the investor in the companys ordinary shares and ADSs.
Further details of this not needing the full detail of the Report, an Annual Review.
service can be obtained by contacting them, see contact details These are available from the date of publication on the website.
The Annual Review is sent to all shareholders on the date of The provision of the details above are not intended to be an publication.
Shareholders may also elect to receive the Report invitation or inducement to engage in an investment activity.
by writing to the companys registrars.
Alternatively shareholders Advice on share dealing, should be obtained from a stockbroker may elect to receive notication by email of the publication of or independent financial adviser.
financial reports by registering on www.
Copies of previous financial reports are available on the website.
Printed copies can be obtained from the registrar in the UK and from the Customer Response Center in the USA.
