GlaxoSmithKline 163 Financial information under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Background Financial instruments: Financial instruments in the comparative periods to be presented in the Annual Report 2005 i. e. 2004 The IFRS project and 2003 are recorded on the existing UK GAAP basis, rather In June 2002, the Council of the European Union adopted a than in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Regulation requiring listed companies in its Member States to Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: prepare their consolidated financial statements in accordance Recognition and Measurement see below.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS from 2005.
The first GlaxoSmithKline Annual Report prepared under IFRS The IFRS financial information has been prepared on the basis will be that for the year ending 31st December 2005.
The first of taking these exemptions.
financial results announcement prepared in accordance with IFRS will be that for the first quarter of 2005.
Financial instruments GlaxoSmithKline intends to adopt IAS 39 in full.
However, one The Groups project to convert its financial reporting from UK of the exemptions available under IFRS 1 relaxes the requirement GAAP to IFRS has now been completed, subject to any changes for comparative information presented in the Annual Report 2005 in standard and pronouncements.
A training programme has to comply with IAS 32 and IAS 39.
GlaxoSmithKline intends to been rolled out to all finance staff worldwide and the adjusted take advantage of this exemption, and so, in 2003 and 2004, historical data, which will provide the comparative information financial instruments will be accounted for and presented on a under IFRS in 2005, has been prepared.
The unaudited consolidated results of GlaxoSmithKline plc On 1st January 2005 there was an adjustment to the opening converted from the current UK GAAP basis onto an IFRS basis balance sheet to reect the movements from the UK GAAP for 2003 and 2004 are presented on pages 170 to 173.
As 2003 carrying values to the IAS 32 and IAS 39 values, which for many will be the earliest year for which full IFRS financial statements financial instruments will be fair value.
will be presented in the Annual Report 2005, the transition date to IFRS for GlaxoSmithKline is 1st January 2003.
Normally The financial instruments concerned are: accounting changes of this nature would require full retrospective Held at fair value under IFRS with movements recorded in application, but under the IFRS transitional rules, certain equity: adjustments only have to be applied with effect from the Equity investments transition date of 1st January 2003.
Liquid investments Derivatives classied as cash ow hedging instruments Basis of preparation of data The IFRS financial information has been prepared on the basis Held at fair value under IFRS with movements recorded in of all IFRS and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC and the income statement: International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Equity collar linked to the Groups investment in Quest interpretations issued by the IASB effective for 2005 reporting.
Put and call options linked to the Groups strategic GlaxoSmithKline has chosen to adopt the IASBs amendments to alliance with Theravance Inc. IAS 19, Employee Benets, early.
This permits actuarial gains and Other derivatives not classied as hedging instruments, losses, differences between the expected and actual returns and including embedded derivatives the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions to be recognised Derivatives classied as fair value hedges together with in the Statement of recognised income and expense.
the hedged element of the relevant asset or liability The financial information presented under IFRS is unaudited.
Presentation differences only: Non-equity minority interests repaid during 2004.
IFRS 1 exemptions IFRS 1, First-Time Adoption of International Financial Reporting If the IAS 39 valuation rules had been applied in 2004 there Standards, permits those companies adopting IFRS for the first would have been a charge to profit before tax, the largest time to take some exemptions from the full requirements of IFRS elements of which arise from the Quest collar 42 million: in the transition period.
GlaxoSmithKline intends to take the 2003 42 million and the Theravance put and call options following key exemptions: 53 million: 2003 nil.
Valuations are inherently unpredictable and changes in the fair values of financial instruments could Business combinations: Business combinations prior to the have a material impact on the future results and financial transition date 1st January 2003 have not been restated position of GlaxoSmithKline.
onto an IFRS basis Employee benets: All cumulative actuarial gains and losses have been recognised in equity at the transition date Share-based payments: IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, applies to equity instruments, such as share options granted since 7th November 2002, but GlaxoSmithKline has elected to adopt full retrospective application of the standard 164 GlaxoSmithKline Financial information under IFRS IFRS accounting policies Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are booked The following IFRS accounting policies are expected to be applied in local currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of by GlaxoSmithKline plc in its consolidated financial statements for f transaction.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are retranslated 2005. into local currency at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Consolidation The consolidated Financial statements include: Revenue the assets and liabilities, and the results and cash ows, Revenue is recognised in the income statement when goods or of the company and its subsidiaries, including ESOP Trusts: services are supplied or made available to external customers the Groups share of the net assets and results of joint against orders received and when title and risk of loss passes to ventures and associates.
Turnover represents net invoice value after the deduction of discounts and allowances given and accruals for The Financial statements of undertakings consolidated are made up estimated future rebates and returns.
The methodology and to 31st December.
assumptions used to estimate rebates and returns are monitored Entities over which the Group has the ability to exercise control are and adjusted regularly in the light of contractual and historical accounted for as subsidiaries: where the Group has the ability to information and past experience.
Turnover also includes coexercise joint control, they are accounted for as joint ventures, and promotion income where the Group records its share of the where the Group has the ability to exercise significant inuence, revenue but no related cost of sales.
Value added tax and other they are accounted for as associates.
sales taxes are excluded from revenue.
Interests acquired in entities are consolidated from the effective Expenditure date of acquisition and interests sold are consolidated up to the Expenditure is recognised in respect of goods and services received date of disposal.
when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is Transactions and balances between subsidiaries are eliminated: made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of no profit is taken on sales between subsidiaries or on sales to joint a past event and where the amount of the obligation can be ventures and associates until the products are sold to customers reliably estimated.
Advertising and promotion expenditure is outside the Group.
Deferred tax relief on unrealised intra-Group charged to the income statement as incurred.
Shipment costs on profit is accounted for only to the extent that it is considered intercompany transfers are charged to cost of sales: distribution recoverable.
costs on sales to customers are included in selling, general and administrative expenditure.
Restructuring costs are recognised in Goodwill arising on the acquisition of interests in subsidiaries, joint respect of the direct expenditures of a business reorganisation ventures and associates, representing the excess of the purchase where the plans are sufciently detailed and well advanced, and consideration over the Groups share of the fair values of the where appropriate communication to those affected has been identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, undertaken at the balance sheet date.
is capitalised as a separate item in the case of subsidiaries and as part of the cost of investment in the case of joint ventures and Research and development associates.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the Research and development expenditure is charged to the income operation acquired.
In the case of acquisitions prior to 1998, statement in the period in which it is incurred.
Development goodwill was written off directly to equity: on a subsequent expenditure is capitalised when the criteria for recognising an asset disposal of assets from such acquisitions, any related goodwill are met, usually at the point of regulatory ling in a major market.
remains in equity and is not charged to the consolidated income Property, plant and equipment used for research and development statement.
is depreciated in accordance with the Groups policy.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates and joint ventures are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements using Environmental expenditure the equity method of accounting.
Environmental expenditure related to existing conditions resulting from past or current operations and from which no current or Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint future benefit is discernible is charged to the income statement.
ventures including related goodwill, are translated into sterling at The Group recognises its liability on a site-by-site basis when it can rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results and be reliably estimated.
This liability includes the Groups portion of cash ows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures the total costs and also a portion of other potentially responsible are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
parties costs when it is probable that they will not be able to Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and satisfy their respective shares of the clean-up obligation.
Recoveries the profits for the year retained by overseas subsidiaries, associates of reimbursements are recorded as assets when virtually certain.
and joint ventures are translated into sterling, less exchange differences arising on related foreign currency borrowings which hedge the Groups net investment in these operations, are taken to a separate component of equity.
When translating into sterling the assets, liabilities, results and cash ows of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures which are reported in currencies of hyper-inationary economies, adjustments are made to reect current price levels.
Any loss on net monetary assets is charged to the consolidated income statement.
Financial information under IFRS GlaxoSmithKline 165 IFRS accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment PP&E is stated at the cost of Pensions and other post-employment benets purchase or construction less provisions for depreciation and The costs of providing pensions under dened benefit schemes are impairment.
Financing costs are not capitalised.
calculated using the projected unit credit method and spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from the Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of PP&E, excluding employees services, in accordance with the advice of qualied freehold land, using the straight-line basis over its expected useful actuaries.
Pension obligations are measured as the present value life.
The normal expected useful lives of the major categories of of estimated future cash ows discounted at rates reecting the PP&E are reviewed annually and are: yields of high quality corporate bonds.
Pension scheme assets are Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years measured at fair value at the balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains Leasehold land and Lease term or 20 to 50 years and losses, differences between the expected and actual returns, buildings and the effect of changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised Plant and machinery 10 to 20 years in the Statement of recognised income and expense in the Fixtures and equipment 3 to 10 years year they arise.
The Groups contributions to dened contribution plans are On disposal of PP&E, the cost and related accumulated charged to the income statement as incurred.
depreciation and impairments are removed from the financial statements and the net amount, less any proceeds, is taken to The costs of other post-employment liabilities are calculated in a the income statement.
similar way to dened benefit pension schemes and spread over the period during which benefit is expected to be derived from Leases the employees services, in accordance with the advice of qualied Leasing agreements which transfer to the Group substantially actuaries.
all the benets and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as finance leases, as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The Legal and other disputes assets are included in PP&E or computer software and the capital Provision is made for anticipated settlement costs where a elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome of legal or under finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are other disputes against the Group.
In addition provision is made for depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or legal or other expenses arising from claims received or other the lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease rental disputes.
In respect of product liability claims related to products is included in the income statement.
All other leases are operating where there is sufficient history of claims made and settlements, an leases and the annual rentals are included in the income statement incurred but not reported IBNR actuarial technique is used to on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
determine a reasonable estimate of the Groups exposure to unasserted claims for those products and a provision is made on Goodwill that basis.
No provision is made for other unasserted claims or Goodwill is stated at cost less impairments.
Goodwill is deemed to where an obligation exists under a dispute but it is not possible to have an indefinite useful life and is tested for impairment annually.
Costs associated with claims made by the Group against third parties are charged to the income Where the fair value of the interest acquired in an entitys assets, statement as they are incurred.
liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the consideration paid, this excess is recognised immediately as a gain in the income Employee share plans statement.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under share option and share award schemes.
These options and awards are fair valued at their grant dates and the cost is charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods.
The Group provides finance to ESOP Trusts to purchase company shares on the open market to meet the obligation to provide shares when employees exercise their options or awards.
Costs of running the ESOP Trusts are charged to the income statement.
Shares held by the ESOP Trusts are deducted from other reserves and held at the value of the proceeds receivable from employees on exercise.
If there is deemed to be a permanent impairment in value this is reected by a transfer to retained earnings.
166 GlaxoSmithKline Financial information under IFRS IFRS accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are included in the financial statements at the lower Intangible xed assets of cost including raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs Intangible assets are stated at cost less provisions for amortisation and related production overheads and net realisable value.
generally determined on a first in, first out basis.
Licences, patents, know-how and marketing rights separately acquired or acquired as part of a business combination are Taxation amortised over their estimated useful lives from the time they Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on are available for use.
The estimated useful lives for determining temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets the amortisation charge are reviewed annually, and take into and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial account the estimated time it takes to bring the compounds or statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent products to market.
Any development costs incurred by the Group that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available and associated with acquired licences, patents, know-how or against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
marketing rights are written off to the income statement Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on when incurred, unless the criteria for recognition of an internally investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except generated intangible asset are met.
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can Brands are valued independently as part of the fair value of be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference businesses acquired from third parties where the brand has a will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
value which is substantial and long-term and where the brands Deferred tax is provided using rates of tax that have been enacted can be sold separately from the rest of the businesses acquired.
or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax Brands are amortised over their estimated useful lives, except liabilities and assets are not discounted.
where it is considered that the useful economic life is indefinite.
Prior to 1998, acquired minor brands and similar intangibles were Derivative f financial instruments and hedging activities eliminated in the Group balance sheet against reserves in the year Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to of acquisition.
market risks from treasury operations.
The principal derivative instruments used by GlaxoSmithKline are foreign currency swaps, The costs of acquiring and developing computer software for interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
internal use and internet sites for external use are capitalised as The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments intangible xed assets where the software or site supports a for trading or speculative purposes.
significant business system and the expenditure leads to the creation of a durable asset.
ERP systems software is amortised Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the over seven years and other computer software over three to balance sheet at cost and then remeasured at subsequent five years.
reporting dates to fair value.
Hedging derivatives are classied on inception as fair value hedges, cash ow hedges or net Impairment of non-current assets investment hedges.
The carrying values of all non-current assets are reviewed for Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value impairment when there is an indication that the assets might hedges are recorded in the income statement, with the changes be impaired.
Additionally, goodwill, intangible assets with in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
indefinite useful lives and intangible assets which are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually.
Any Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash ow provision for impairment is charged to the income statement hedges are recognised in equity.
Amounts deferred in equity are in the year concerned.
transferred to the income statement in line with the hedged forecast transaction.
Investments in joint ventures and associates Hedges of net investments in foreign entities are accounted for Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the in a similar way to cash ow hedges.
consolidated balance sheet at the Groups share of their net assets at date of acquisition and of their post-acquisition retained profits Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do or losses together with any goodwill arising on the acquisition.
not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Available-for-sale investments Available-for-sale investments are initially recorded at cost and Debt instruments then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value.
Unhedged debt instruments are stated at the amount of net Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale investments are proceeds, adjusted to amortise the issue costs of the debt over recognised directly in equity.
On disposal or impairment of the its term.
investments, the gains and losses in equity are recycled into the income statement.
Equity investments are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
Financial information under IFRS GlaxoSmithKline 167 IFRS adjustments The adjustment for share-based payments is expected to reduce to a more normal level of 200-250 million by 2005.
The A summary of the principal differences between UK GAAP and considerably higher charge in 2004 and 2003 arises from two IFRS as they apply to GlaxoSmithKline is set out below and the main factors.
Relatively few share options were granted during financial effect is shown on pages 170 to 173.
2000 when the GW SB merger was being nalised, but then in Customer allowances 2001 there was a full catch-up grant early in the year followed This adjustment is a reclassication between turnover and by the normal annual grant in November 2001.
In addition, the expenses with no profit or cash ow effect.
IFRS has no detailed grants in 2001 were made at an average share price in excess of rules in relation to when certain marketing and promotional 18.
These share options will become exercisable in 2004 and expenditure should be deducted from turnover rather than therefore fall out of the charge in 2005, when the charge will recorded as an expense.
However, these rules do exist under US reect more current share prices and more normal grant levels.
GAAP in EITF 01-09, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer, which requires most marketing, advertising, Coreg capitalisation and amortisation and promotion payments made to customers to be deducted from The North American rights to Coreg were acquired at the time of turnover.
This has the most significant impact in the Consumer the GW SB merger as partial consideration for the required disposal Healthcare business where payments to large retailers for in-store of Kytril to Roche.
Under UK GAAP this was accounted for as advertising, preferential shelf-space, product listings etc.
are an exchange of assets with no value being attributed to Coreg commonplace.
IFRS, however, requires the acquired rights to Coreg to be added to intangible assets at their fair value on GlaxoSmithKline believes that this reects best practice in revenue the date of acquisition of $400 million, and then amortised over recognition and hence, in the absence of detailed guidance under their remaining useful life of eight years.
This adjustment reduces IFRS, has decided to adopt a revenue recognition policy under 2004 profit before tax by 27 million 2003 31 million and IFRS in line with EITF 01-09.
Therefore going forward there would EPS by 0.3 pence 2003 0.3 pence.
be no difference between turnover reported under IFRS and turnover reported under US GAAP.
This adjustment has no impact Other intangible assets amortisation on profit before tax or EPS.
Under UK GAAP, GlaxoSmithKline amortises intangible assets over their estimated expected useful lives from acquisition, which can Share-based payments be up to a maximum of 15 years.
IFRS only permits amortisation to The present UK GAAP approach to share-based payments is to commence when the asset becomes available for use, with annual record any intrinsic loss on grant suffered by the company.
This impairment testing required before this point.
GlaxoSmithKline has means that for share options granted at the market price, there determined that the point at which amortisation of product-related is no charge to the income statement.
Where shares or options assets commences under IFRS will normally be regulatory approval.
are granted at no cost to the employee e. g. under long-term The majority of GlaxoSmithKlines intangible assets relates to the incentive plans the income statement is charged with an amount acquisition of rights to compounds in development and so has not equal to the market price on the date of the award, spread over reached the point at which amortisation commences.
This has led the performance period usually three years.
to a reduction in the amortisation charge in the periods presented, IFRS 2, Share-based Payment, and its UK GAAP equivalent FRS 20, which is likely to reverse in the future as these compounds reach Share-based Payment, both of which came into force in 2005, regulatory approval and amortisation is then charged over a shorter require the fair value of the equity instruments issued to be period.
profit before tax in 2004 increases by 43 million charged to the income statement.
For share awards granted to 2003 43 million and EPS by 0.5 pence 2003 0.5 pence.
senior executives, although the calculation is different, the resultant charge is not materially different from that under UK GAAP.
Goodwill amortisation The major difference arises in respect of share options: of the UK GAAP requires goodwill to be amortised over its estimated 368 million adjustment in 2003, some 350 million arises from expected useful life, which GlaxoSmithKline has determined the grant of share options at market price to approximately to be normally no longer than 20 years.
GlaxoSmithKline has chosen to recognise all goodwill is considered to have an indefinite life and so is not unvested options and awards retrospectively.
amortised, but is subject to annual impairment testing.
This adjustment therefore reverses the goodwill amortisation charged GlaxoSmithKline receives a tax credit, as appropriate, which relates under UK GAAP, including that recorded in the profit on share to share options and awards when exercised, based on the gains of associates line relating to the acquisition of the Groups interest the holders make and dependant on the tax rules in the country in Quest Diagnostics Inc.
Under the business combinations in which the deduction is claimed.
The deferred tax asset exemption of IFRS 1, goodwill previously written off direct to represents an estimate of future tax relief for this gain and is reserves under UK GAAP is not recycled to the income statement based on the potential gains available to the option or award on the disposal or part-disposal of the subsidiary or associate, holders at the balance sheet date.
The movement in deferred as it would be under UK GAAP.
The adjustment increases 2004 tax asset from one balance sheet to the next may result in either a profit before tax by 38 million 2003 26 million and EPS by tax credit or a tax charge recorded in the income statement.
This adjustment reduces profit before tax in 2004 by 309 million 2003 368 million, earnings by 314 million 2003 344 million and EPS by 5.5 pence 2003 5.9 pence.
168 GlaxoSmithKline Financial information under IFRS IFRS adjustments continued Deferred tax on intercompany profit Under UK GAAP, deferred tax on the provision for intercompany Pensions and other post-employment benets profit held in inventory is calculated at the supplying companys GlaxoSmithKline accounts under UK GAAP for pensions and other effective tax rate.
IFRS, however, takes a balance sheet approach post-employment benets OPEBs in accordance with SSAP 24, to the recognition of deferred tax which results in the tax rate of which spreads the costs of providing the benets over the the company holding the inventory at the balance sheet date estimated average service lives of the employees.
The additional being applied to the provision.
If the proportions of the Groups FRS 17 disclosures give the pension fund surpluses and deficits inventory held in specic locations change signicantly from one and the liabilities for OPEBs based on the valuation methodologies balance sheet date to the next there could be a significant change required by that Standard.
in the value of the deferred tax asset, which is reected through IAS 19, Employee Benets, takes a similar valuation approach to the tax charge for the year.
FRS 17, and in accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 1 the surpluses and deficits have been recognised on the balance Other adjustments sheet at the transition date of 1st January 2003.
In addition, There are a number of other minor adjustments and following an amendment to IAS 19 issued by the IASB in December reclassications, including: 2004, it is permitted to recognise any movements in the surpluses Computer software, which is recorded as an intangible asset or deficits immediately in balance sheets, but outside the income unless it forms an integral part of the operating system of a statement, in a similar way to FRS 17.
This means that, in most tangible xed asset cases, the balance sheet reects the full surplus or deficit positions Deferred tax on brands acquired with a company, where if of the funds.
there is a difference between the fair value of the brands on The Groups policy is to charge out to the operating businesses acquisition and the tax value, a taxable temporary difference the service cost element of the pension charge, which then gets arises reported within cost of sales, selling, general and administrative Cash equivalents reclassication, where liquid investments expenditure or research and development as appropriate, but not with maturities of less than three months at acquisition are to charge out the element related to the funding deficit, which included within cash and cash equivalents, and is all reported in Selling, general and administrative expenditure.
Provisions reclassication, where the elements of provisions Under IAS 19, the service cost element of the total charge is expected to be paid within one year of the balance sheet date, considerably higher than under SSAP 24 and the funding deficit with the exception of pensions and OPEBs, are presented element lower.
This leads to an additional reclassication within current liabilities.
adjustment between the income statement expense headings.
Cash ow statement In the USA, the recently enacted Medicare Prescription Drug, The move from UK GAAP to IFRS does not change any of the cash Improvement and Modernization Act is expected to lead to ows of the Group.
The IFRS cash ow format is similar to UK payments being received by GlaxoSmithKline from the US GAAP but presents various cash ows in different categories and Government in respect of its employee healthcare plans.
At in a different order from the UK GAAP cash ow statement.
All present there is no clear consensus on how these receipts should of the IFRS accounting adjustments net out within cash generated be accounted for under IAS 19.
GlaxoSmithKline has recognised from operations except for the intangible assets reclassication these receipts as actuarial adjustments and so the impact of them and the inclusion of liquid investments with a maturity of less is recognised in the balance sheet.
This treatment would change if than three months on acquisition, together with related exchange guidance is issued which requires a different accounting treatment.
adjustments, within cash and cash equivalents under IFRS.
The overall impact of the adjustments to pensions and OPEBs in 2004 is a decrease in profit before tax of 36 million 2003 increase of 11 million and a decrease in EPS of 0.4 pence 2003 nil.
Share of profits of associates Under UK GAAP the share of profits of associates is reported within profit before tax for the Group.
However, IFRS requires this share of profits to be the net profit attributable to the Group, i. e. after interest, tax and minority interests of the associate.
This leads to a reclassication adjustment removing the share of the associates interest, tax and minority interests from those lines in the income statement and netting them all together in the share of profits of associates line.
This adjustment reduces 2004 profit before tax by 42 million 2003 42 million but does not affect EPS.
