88 GlaxoSmithKline Directors statements of responsibility Directors statement of responsibility in relation to the Internal control Financial statements The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the The Directors are: assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness responsible for ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by position of the Group at any time and from which financial the Board of Directors.
statements can be prepared to comply with the Companies Act 1985 The Combined Code required by law to prepare financial statements for each The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the principles financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial of affairs of the company and the Group as at the end of Reporting Council, as described under Corporate governance the financial period and of the profit or loss for that period pages 33 to 42, and has complied with its provisions except as responsible also for ensuring the operation of systems of described on page 41. internal control and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting the auditors have considered the Directors statement of fraud and other irregularities.
compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code The Financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2004, which are specified for their review.
comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out in Financial statements on pages 90 to 152 of this report.
Annual Report The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been The Annual Report for the year ended 31st December 2004, consistently applied in the preparation of the Financial statements, comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration Report, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates the Financial statements and additional information for investors, as necessary: applicable accounting standards have been followed, has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its and the Financial statements have been prepared on the going behalf by concern basis.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors report page 89 opposite.
The Financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2004 are included in the Annual Report 2004, which is published in Sir Christopher Gent hard-copy printed form and made available on the website.
The Chairman Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 2nd March 2005 Annual Report on the website in accordance with UK legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Report pages 43 to 58 of this report sets out the remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on Directors remuneration and other disclosable information relating to Directors and ofcers and their interests.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and complies with Section B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial statements.
