48301 GardRich Inset 9 24 04 3:17 PM Page 9 FINANCIAL REVIEW Continued 9 10 FINANCIAL REVIEW Continued The Thameslink result was expected to be depressed by the the just announced acquisition of the balance of Plane Handling well positioned to develop other opportunities that may arise.
In TAXATION consequence of CTRL infrastructure works and the terms of the from Virgin Aviation Services provides the division with an particular, success in winning the Integrated Kent franchise would The effective rate of tax on profit before goodwill charges is two year franchise extension with effect from 1 April 2004. unrivalled position in the higher margin and growing cargo market.
need substantial bonding which the group, and its partner in Govia, 28.6% 2003 27.5%.
This is in line with last years expectation.
Remarkably, therefore, Thameslink produced a result ahead of The group now has a particularly strong position at Heathrow, Keolis, can provide.
This is a reassuring position for shareholders and The reduction below the standard rate is again due to favourable 2003.
Despite the blight of multiple track possessions and the being the leader by some distance in both passenger and cargo further underlines the prospects for growth, not least in dividends.
permanent tax differences and prior year adjustments.
The rate resulting restricted service, volume grew 2% in the year.
services, excluding British Airways in-house handling services.
Treasury policy and borrowing facilities are detailed in note 23 to for the current year is again expected to be below the standard Disruption compensation was favourably negotiated and, as in The Meteor car parking business has delivered 16% revenue the accounts.
the past, the performance regime made a further contribution.
growth and profit is 10% ahead of last year.
Reported margins in Some past contractual disputes were also resolved to the this business are low because, whilst the whole of car park PENSIONS companys advantage.
DIVIDENDS revenue is included in turnover, under airport concession In Southern, passenger journeys increased by an impressive 4.4%.
arrangements, the majority is paid over to the airport authority.
As noted in last years review, increases in employer and The total dividend for the year is increased by 52% compared to This was despite the relatively poor operating performance being The business has more growth to deliver in the new financial year, employee contributions were put in place for the Go-Ahead last year.
In accordance with the policy noted last year, dividend delivered as a consequence of the huge programme of new train assisted by the recent acquisition of Chauffeured Parking Services.
scheme at the start of the year.
These are absorbed in the profit cover is proposed to be reduced to 2.9 times adjusted earnings introduction and the associated development of maintenance and loss account presented.
The triennial valuation as at April from 3.2 times in 2003.
Further reductions, towards the peer facilities.
With costs successfully held at forecast levels, the better 2003 was in line with expectations and, with the recent group average currently estimated at 2.3 times, can be foreseen.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS than expected revenue including non-passenger revenue such as improvement in the funding position due to increased equity car parking is reflected in improved profitability.
An appropriate As a consequence of the profitable trading in the year, 2.8 million values, the current level of contributions is forecast to eliminate CASH FLOW accrual has been made under the profit sharing mechanism with of the onerous contract provision set up last year has been the deficit in less than ten years.
The funding position of the the SRA whereby profits above 20 million are shared on a released to operating profit.
Offsetting this is a 1.8 million charge Wilts & Dorset scheme closely matches that of the Go-Ahead Cash flow generated from operating activities, amounted to 150 progressive basis.
in respect of reorganisation costs at Gatwick and Stansted airports.
It is intended to keep this scheme separate from the million compared to 95 million in 2003.
Working capital main scheme at present.
The deficit on acquisition has been contributed 19 million, mainly generated from a growth in The development of profit in Southern and Thameslink into the Charged to profit, below the operating line, is goodwill of 4.2 recognised as part of the fair value adjustments, as noted in creditors.
As noted in the 2003 review, it is a key factor of the future is restricted by the profit share concept.
The level above million originally charged to reserves on the acquisition of the note 14 to the accounts.
groups business that growth generates cash, rather than which the profit share agreement with the SRA arises for minority shareholding in Thames Trains in 1998.
Under accounting consuming it through increased working capital.
The creditor Thameslink is 8 million.
However, in this case, a revenue share rules this must be reinstated and charged to profit in the year of Full disclosure of this and the effects under FRS 17 and SSAP 24 increase also reflects cash received not yet recognised as income mechanism provides downside support, an important protection transfer or closure of that business.
Offsetting this is 1 million of are set out in note 24 to the accounts.
The directors believe that reflecting the groups generally prudent accounting policies.
given the uncertainties arising from the 35 week blockade profits made on the sale of Thames Trains assets associated with the group has no rights or obligations in respect of the rail starting this month.
pension schemes following the expiry of the franchises.
Net capital expenditure was 45 million 2003 - 25 million, of Therefore, the characteristics of these pension schemes are which 29 million 2003 - 9 million was for new buses.
This is The new financial year will see the groups bid for the Integrated closer in nature to a defined contribution scheme, and the a significant increase from 2003 when a greater proportion was Kent franchise.
Whilst the associated bid costs are being charged GOODWILL application of FRS 17 defined benefit rules to the rail operating financed by operating lease 40 million in capital value in 2003 to profit, success would have a major impact on the scale and In accordance with the groups accounting policy, the carrying companies is not appropriate.
compared to 16 million this year.
In the coming year, net profitability of the division into the future.
value of purchased goodwill is reviewed for impairment each expenditure is expected to reduce, assisted by property disposal AVIATION SERVICES year applying the principles of FRS 11.
Other than for aviation proceeds in the first half of the year.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The expected improvement in profitability, noted in last years services excluding Meteor Parking, there was no impairment at Wilts & Dorset and Chauffeured Parking Services were acquired review, has not been achieved.
Indeed, excluding the Meteor Car the year end.
There were no material changes in accounting standards or in the year at a net cash cost of 30 million.
To offset the impact Parking business, the business again suffered a modest loss.
policies applied to the accounts in the year.
The group, however, In the core aviation services business, however, despite some on senior bank debt, the unencumbered bus fleet was refinanced is well positioned to meet the challenge of International Financial However, significant progress has been made in establishing a positive developments described above, recent experience has in March 2004 under a leasing structure which generated a net Reporting Standards and has already produced a draft balance firmer platform going forward.
The Gatwick operation is being shown how difficult it is to forecast profitability and cash flow cash inflow of 35 million.
An advantage of this arrangement is sheet on this basis as at the year end.
This will be required for successfully downsized to meet the reduced demand for the accurately in this market.
In the light of this we have cautiously that the interest cost is fixed for five years.
The majority of the disclosure purposes from the current financial year.
groups services in this market.
This, combined with the reappraised our forecasts for this business and have applied a groups debt cost is now fixed.
introduction of new terms and conditions of employment at this higher risk factor in discounting prospective cash flows.
These station, has stemmed previous losses.
Growth at Heathrow, have formed the basis of this years impairment review which has BALANCE SHEET including significant new contract wins, has also turned round the led the board to decide to write-down fully the remaining result here during the year just ended.
These are the two key goodwill of this business, amounting to 67 million.
However, Having written down the goodwill associated with the aviation objectives needed to move the business overall into profit.
More with the recent developments described above, including, in services division, group net assets show a decline of 27 million.
recently, management have been successful in negotiating a particular, the acquisition of the balance of Plane Handling, the The balance sheet has, however, been further strengthened by a national pay deal providing a stable industrial relations carrying value of this business can be recovered in due course.
It reduction in net debt from 62 million to 31 million.
Excluding background for at least the next two years.
There is now the should be noted that under the terms of FRS 11, any upside restricted cash deposits within the rail division, the respective opportunity to drive forward with a labour productivity synergy benefits from post balance sheet events, in this case figures are a reduction from 96 million to 86 million.
Interest is programme across the whole division.
Since the year end, loss those arising from the acquisition of Plane Handling, are covered 22 times by operating profit before exceptional items making passenger operations at Stansted have been withdrawn precluded from the goodwill impairment calculation.
and goodwill 15 times in 2003. to allow focus on the profitable cargo business at this station.
The As previously reported, the goodwill associated with the In addition to the debt held on the balance sheet, debt capacity is proposed extension of the bmi contract to 2009 currently under acquisition of Southern is being amortised over the period of the also absorbed in providing the bonding commitments set out in negotiation will underpin the divisions position as a leading current franchise.
However, taking into account the post provider of services in the UK, particularly at Heathrow.
Finally, balance sheet outlay of 20 million on Plane Handling, the group is
