Accounting Policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Groups accounts.
a Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared under the historical cost accounting rules and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The requirements of all new accounting standards and pronouncements required to be adopted during the past year have been implemented where relevant, in particular UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
b Prior year adjustment UITF 38 requires the assets and liabilities of the Groups ESOP trust to be recognised in the Groups accounts where there is fide facto control of those assets and liabilities.
The Companys own shares held by the ESOP trust should be deducted from shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally with employees.
Prior to the adoption of UITF 38 the Companys own shares held by the ESOP trust were recognised as fixed asset investments on the balance sheet at the lower of cost and net book amount.
All relevant primary statements and notes relating to the accounts have been restated accordingly.
Compliance with UITF 38 has reduced the 2004 investments and shareholders funds by 2,787,000 2003: 5,046,000.
The net profit for 2003 was unaffected.
The estimated impact on the current years profit if UITF 38 had not been adopted would be to increase the net profit by 85,000. c Consolidation The consolidated accounts include the results of Greggs plc and its subsidiary undertakings for the period of 53 weeks ended 1 January 2005.
The comparative period is the 52 weeks ended 27 December 2003. d Depreciation Depreciation is provided on the cost of tangible fixed assets before deducting government capital grants and after taking the estimated residual value into consideration.
Freehold and long leasehold properties are depreciated by equal instalments over a period of 40 years.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Depreciation of other tangible fixed assets is provided on a straight line basis as follows: Short leasehold properties 10% Plant: General 10% 1 Computers 20% - 33 3% Motor vehicles 20% - 25% 1 Delivery trays 33 3% Shop fixtures and fittings: General 10% Electronic equipment 20% e Government grants Grants received in respect of specific capital items are credited to deferred income and transferred to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over the estimated average life of the relevant fixed assets.
Grants which are related to the fulfilment of certain conditions or to the expiry of a period of time are also credited to deferred income and are transferred to the profit and loss account in equal instalments over a period from the commencement of the project until these conditions are met.
f Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
g Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred or accelerated because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised, without discounting, in respect of all timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation purposes and accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the balance sheet date, except as otherwise required by FRS 19.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 26 27 h Goodwill Purchased goodwill arising in respect of acquisitions before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10: Goodwill and Intangible Assets was adopted, was written off to reserves in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs any related goodwill previously written off to reserves is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
i Leased assets The rental costs of properties and other assets acquired under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
j Pension costs The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes for its employees.
The assets of these funds are held by the Trustees of the schemes and are entirely separate from those of the Group.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of the defined benefit scheme is based on actuarial estimates and is calculated to spread the cost of pensions over employees working lives with the Group.
The amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of the defined contribution schemes represents the contributions payable in respect of the accounting period.
k Employee share ownership plan The Group accounts include the assets and related liabilities of the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust.
During the year the Group has adopted the provisions of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts in these accounts.
Under the requirements of UITF 38 the shares held by the ESOP are stated at cost and deducted from shareholders funds.
l Financial assets and liabilities Changes in the value of financial instruments are disclosed in the notes to the accounts but are not reflected in the profit and loss account or the balance sheet.
m Cash and liquid resources Cash, for the purposes of the cash flow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts repayable on demand.
Liquid resources are current asset investments which are disposable without curtailing or disrupting the business and are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at or close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
Liquid resources comprise term deposits of less than one year other than cash, government securities and investments in money market managed funds.
n Foreign currency Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged, at the forward contract rate.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, if appropriate, at the forward contract rate.
All exchange rate differences are included in the profit and loss account.
