AccountingPolicies HALMA Basis of accounting The accounts set out on pages 48 to 73 are prepared under the historical cost convention and comply with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
The principal Group accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding year and are described below.
The accounts also reflect the transitional requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts include the accounts of Halma p. l. c. and its subsidiary companies made up to 3 April 2004.
The results of subsidiary companies acquired are included from the month of acquisition.
Acquisitions  businesses atthedates  iscapitalised asan intangibleasset.
 to reserves as a matter of accounting policy.
Intangible assets Goodwill arising on acquisitions after 28 March 1998 is capitalised and is classified as an intangible asset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to that date was written off to reserves, and would be included in  which it relates.
Capitalised goodwill is amortised through the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account on a straight line basis over its estimated economic life of 20 years.
Foreign currencies Transactions inforeign currencyare recorded attherate  the transaction unless matched by a forward currency contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates prevailing at that date, or, where appropriate, at the forward currency contract rate.
Any gain or loss arising from subsequent exchange rate movements is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
 ,  the average rates of exchange for the financial year.
Exchange gains or losses arising on these translations, together with those on foreign currency borrowings which are taken out to hedge the Groups overseas investments, are taken to reserves.
Turnover Turnover represents sales, less returns, by subsidiary companies to external customers excluding value added tax.
Transactions are recorded as sales when the delivery of products or performance of services takes place in accordance with the contracted terms of sale.
Investments Investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Halma p. l. c. 2004 53 Accounting Policies continued HALMA Tangible fixed assets and depreciation Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less provisions for impairment and depreciation which, with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated, is provided on all tangible fixed assets on the straight line method, each item being written off over its estimated life.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are: Freehold buildings 2% Leasehold properties - more than 50 years unexpired 2% less than 50 years unexpired Period of lease Plant, machinery and equipment 8% to 20% Motor vehicles 20% 1 Short-life tooling 33 % 3 Leases The costs of operating leases of property and other assets are charged as incurred.
Pensions The Group makes contributions to various pension schemes, covering the majority of its employees, which are charged against profits on a systematic and rational basis over the period during which benefit is derived from the service.
Any differences between this charge and amounts payable to the schemes are recorded as provisions or prepayments as appropriate.
Research and development  it is incurred.
Stocks Stocks and work in progress of subsidiary companies are included at the lower of .
 and other overheads considered by the Directors to be attributable to bringing the stock to its location and condition at the year end.
Deferred taxation The Group provides for taxation deferred because of timing differences between profits as computed for taxation purposes and profits as stated in the accounts, on an undiscounted basis.
Deferred taxation is measured at the average tax rates that are expected toapply intheperiods inwhich thetiming differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
The principal timing differences in the Group accounts arise on the excess of tax allowances on tangible fixed assets over the corresponding depreciation charged in theaccounts: against tax, where it has been charged against reserves in the Group accounts but would be accounted for through the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account on a sale or closure of the business to which it relates.
