Statement of Directors responsibilities Board Committees Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Audit Committee for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state John Rishton Chairman of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss Paul Adams for that year.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors Bruno Angelici are required to: Donald Brydon Sir Gerry Robinson Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Summary terms of reference: to assist the Board in exercising its responsibilities for accounting, financial reporting and internal control Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and risk assessment, to keep the work of internal and external audit and prudent: under review and to oversee the independence of the external auditor.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Remuneration Committee explained in the financial statements: and Donald Brydon Chairman Paul Adams Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis Bruno Angelici unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue John Rishton in business.
Sir Gerry Robinson The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Summary terms of reference: to set terms of employment, including which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial remuneration, for Executive Directors and the Chairman.
position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
Nomination Committee They have general responsibilities for taking such steps as are Sir Gerry Robinson Chairman reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and Philip Bowman to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Donald Brydon John Rishton Summary terms of reference: to consider and recommend candidates for appointment to the Board.
Executive Committee This Committee comprises mainly the Executive Directors.
Summary terms of reference: to formalise Group strategy, run the day-to-day operations of the Group, approve projects within capital expenditure limits delegated by the Board and lead the management development process.
Financing Committee This Committee comprises mainly the Executive Directors.
Summary terms of reference: to exercise the powers of the Company concerning the financing of approved acquisitions and the refinancing of debt.
The full terms of reference of the Board Committees are available on request from the General Counsel & Company Secretary and also appear on the Companys website at www.
