US GAAP reconciliation US GAAP reconciliation periods.
This reconciliation adjustment does not affect any of our Allied Domecq PLC listed on the New York Stock Exchange UK GAAP financial statements.
Pages 82 to 85 provide an explanation and SFAS No.
52 Foreign Currency Translation, requires the Group reconciliation from UK to US GAAP.
to use the functional currency of the acquired entity to measure these assets and liabilities.
As exchange rates between pounds Differences between UK and US Generally sterling the Groups reporting currency and the various functional Accepted Accounting Principles currencies of the acquired entities move, SFAS No.
52 requires The Groups consolidated financial statements are prepared a corresponding change in the valuation of these assets and in accordance with UK GAAP, which differ from those generally liabilities in the Groups consolidated financial statements, with accepted in the United States US GAAP.
The significant an offsetting charge or credit to currency translation adjustments differences between UK GAAP and US GAAP which affect within other comprehensive income.
the Groups net income and Shareholders equity are summarised below.
In prior US GAAP reconciliations, the Group used pounds sterling in measuring certain of these assets and liabilities and Restatement of previously reported US GAAP information as a result, the Group did not follow SFAS No.
The Group In the course of doing preparatory work to convert its financial has followed SFAS No.
52 in the US GAAP reconciliation of statements from UK GAAP to International Financial Reporting its 2004 consolidated financial statements.
The Group has Standards IFRS, the Group has identified an error in its prior restated the US GAAP reconciliation for prior periods and the reconciliation to US GAAP.
The error relates to the foreign impact in 2003 was a 1m charge on net income, a 105m currency translation of certain assets and liabilities in connection credit to comprehensive income and a reduction in Shareholders with past business combinations.
The principal assets and equity of 26m.
The impact of these restatements for prior periods liabilities involved are brands, goodwill and related deferred tax.
2000 to 2003 is as follows: As a result, we have restated the US GAAP reconciliation for prior Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2003 2002 2001 2000 US GAAP reconciliation changes m m m m Net income as reported 280 406 332 1,554 Effects of restatement: Brands 2 3 Goodwill 2 1 Stock 1 1 Deferred taxation 1 1 Net income as restated 279 407 335 1,557 Net earnings per Ordinary Share pence Basic as reported 26.0p 38.0p 31.5p 146.7p Effect of net income restatement 0.1p 0.3p 0.3p Basic as restated 26.0p 38.1p 31.8p 147.0p Diluted as reported 26.0p 38.0p 31.5p 146.7p Effect of net income restatement 0.1p 0.1p 0.3p 0.3p Diluted as restated 25.9p 38.1p 31.8p 147.0p Comprehensive income as reported 297 73 114 1,592 Effects of restatement: Currency translation differences 106 48 10 3 Restatement of net income 1 1 3 3 Comprehensive income as restated 402 26 107 1,598 Shareholders equity as reported 1,657 1,541 1,484 1,513 Effects of restatement: Brands 48 110 60 51 Goodwill 17 49 44 48 Other intangible assets 1 Stock 3 1 Deferred taxation 2 28 20 21 Other 1 Shareholders equity as restated 1,631 1,410 1,400 1,436 82 a Brands, goodwill and other intangible assets d Restructuring costs Under UK GAAP, goodwill arising on acquisitions of a business Under UK GAAP, provisions are made for restructuring costs once since 1 September 1998 is capitalised and is held in pounds sterling a detailed formal plan is in place and valid expectations have been and amortised by equal instalments over its anticipated useful life, raised in those affected that the restructuring will be carried out.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior Provision is made for voluntary redundancy payments to the extent to 1 September 1998 was charged directly to reserves.
On disposal that it is expected that volunteers will come forward.
US GAAP of a business, any attributable goodwill previously eliminated against requires a number of specific criteria to be met before restructuring reserves is included in the calculation of any gain or loss.
Purchased costs can be recognised as an expense.
Also, to the extent intangible assets are capitalised and amortised over their estimated restructuring costs are related to the activities of an acquired useful economic lives on a straight line basis, except for purchased company, US GAAP allows them to be recognised as a liability brand intangible assets.
Purchased brand intangible assets are upon acquisition provided certain specific criteria are met whereas considered by the Board of Directors, to have an indefinite life given UK GAAP does not.
Accordingly, timing differences arise between the long-term nature of premium spirits brands and the level of UK GAAP and US GAAP recognition of restructuring costs.
We do not amortise purchased brand intangible assets but they are subject to annual impairment reviews.
e Pension and other post-retirement benefits In accordance with FRS 17 Retirement benefits, the operating Under US GAAP, prior to the adoption of Statement of Financial and financing costs of pension and post-retirement schemes are Accounting Standards SFAS No.
141 Business Combinations recognised separately in the profit and loss account.
Service costs and SFAS No.
142 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, are systematically spread over the service lives of the employees goodwill and other intangible assets arising on acquisition were and financing costs are recognised in the period in which they arise.
capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives, but not Financing costs include the interest cost and the expected return exceeding 40 years.
The Group adopted the provisions of SFAS No.
on assets calculated using the market value of assets.
The costs 141 as at 1 July 2001, and SFAS No.
142 as at 1 September 2001. of past service benefit enhancements, settlements and curtailments Under SFAS No.
52 purchase accounting adjustments of acquired are also recognised in the period in which they arise.
The difference assets, liabilities and goodwill should be translated into the between actual and expected returns on assets during the year, functional currency of the entity to which they relate.
Goodwill including changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the and intangible assets determined to have an indefinite useful life statement of total recognised gains and losses.
acquired in a purchase business combination are no longer amortised and are subjected to annual impairment testing.
87 Employers Accounting for Accordingly, net income no longer includes amortisation of brands, Pensions, where the unfunded accumulated benefit obligation and goodwill amortisation recognised under UK GAAP is reversed.
being the actuarial present value of benefits attributed by the pension benefit formula to employee service rendered prior to The amount of goodwill under UK GAAP differs to that under that date and based on current and past compensation levels US GAAP due to currency translation and the fair values allocated exceeds the fair value of plan assets, a liability must be recognised to intangible assets including significant brands, stock, and the in the statement of financial position.
If this liability exceeds the exclusion from the purchase price consideration of certain costs.
unrecognised prior service cost, the excess is recorded as a reduction of Shareholders equity, net of tax.
b Associated undertakings The principal difference between UK GAAP and US GAAP f Share compensation relates to the accounting treatment of goodwill which is discussed Under UK GAAP, the cost of share option plans are amortised in note a. based on the excess of the option price of the underlying options and the market value at the date of the grant.
Under US GAAP, c Stocks compensation for fixed plan awards is determined at the date Under UK GAAP, stock acquired through a business combination of grant, based on the cost of the fair value of the shares subject to is valued at the lower of replacement cost and net realisable value.
the award, less the option exercise or purchase price, if any, except Under US GAAP, stock acquired through a business combination for allowable discounts with respect to certain qualified plans where reflects the selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal the discount is no greater than 15% of the fair value of the shares.
and a reasonable element of profit for the selling effort by the Compensation costs for variable plan awards is estimated at the end acquiring company.
The GAAP difference relates to maturing stock, of each period from the date of grant to the date final compensation which is being released over a number of years when it is sold to costs are determinable based on the difference between the fair third parties.
value of the shares subject to the award and the option exercise or purchase price.
Such cost is allocated to compensation expense over the vesting period and, if performance criteria are applicable to the award, based on actual performance attained.
83 US GAAP reconciliation g Proposed dividends j Exceptional items Under UK GAAP, the proposed dividends on Ordinary Shares, as Under UK GAAP, exceptional items are material charges or gains that recommended by the Directors, are deducted from Shareholders are associated with the ordinary activities of the Group that the Board equity and shown as a liability in the balance sheet at the end of the of Directors determine, individually or in aggregate, would have a period to which they relate, including proposed dividends which material impact on the true and fair view of specific line items in the have been recommended but not yet approved by Shareholders.
Such items are included within Under US GAAP, such dividends are only deducted from the profit and loss account heading and disclosed in the notes to Shareholders equity at the date of declaration of the dividend.
Under US GAAP, there is no such concept as exceptional items.
Exceptional items would not h Derivative instruments and debt translation be considered extraordinary or non-operating items under US GAAP.
The Groups foreign currency, interest rate and commodity contracts that hedge against forecast exposures do not meet k Mexican excise rebate the US GAAP hedge accounting criteria.
Under US GAAP, these Under UK GAAP, we recognised the amount due when offset contracts are marked to market at the balance sheet date and gains against future excise duty and other taxes payable.
Under US GAAP, and losses arising are included in net income.
Under UK GAAP, the Mexican excise rebate was recognised upon the issuance of these gains and losses can be deferred until the hedged a favourable court judgment and additional interest and inflation transactions actually occur.
adjustments were recognised as they accrued.
Under UK GAAP, where the Group issues or holds foreign currency l Liabilities debt outside of its domestic country, translation gains and losses The Group is contractually obligated to make a payment to a together with foreign exchange gains and losses on related cross business venture partner upon termination of the venture which, currency swaps, are recorded in reserves.
Under US GAAP, the unless renewed, is scheduled to terminate in 2029.
Under UK Group does not meet the hedge accounting criteria and therefore GAAP, the Group records the obligation at the present value of the both translation gains and losses on such debt and the mark to payment obligation, discounted at a risk-adjusted rate to reflect the market on related swaps are recorded in income.
time value of money, and recognises interest expense each period The Group may enter into foreign currency contracts to hedge such that the recorded obligation will equal the payment obligation the purchase price consideration on certain acquisitions.
Under at the currently best estimated scheduled maturity.
Under US GAAP, UK GAAP, the gains and losses arising on these foreign currency the obligation is recorded at the amount payable at maturity contracts are recognised in the purchase price consideration.
Under US GAAP, the gains and losses arising on these foreign currency contracts are recognised within net income.
m Franchise income The Group has entered into agreements to sell the right to develop i Deferred taxation multiple stores within a specified territory, which entitles the Group Other than the tax effect of other UK to US GAAP differences there to non-refundable franchise fees.
Under UK GAAP, these franchise was only one material difference in the year ended 31 August 2003 fees are recognised upon signing of the agreement.
Under US between UK GAAP and US GAAP.
This difference related to the GAAP, the revenue recognition is based on store openings or until recognition criteria for recording deferred tax assets under US the rights to develop the territory have been forfeited.
Under US GAAP, the calculation of current and deferred tax assets is based on the probable tax treatment of the tax position taken.
Once it is determined that there is a probable deferred tax asset, it is then reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent it is deemed more likely than not a likelihood of more than 50% that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realised.
Under UK GAAP, both the existence of the asset and the probability of its recoverability are considered in combination, and a deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that its existence and recoverability are more likely than not.
84 Year to Year to 31 August 31 August 2003 2004 restated Note m m Profit earned for Ordinary Shareholders in accordance with UK GAAP as restated, see page 55 356 337 Adjustments to conform with US GAAP: Brands a 69 Goodwill a 42 42 Other intangible assets a 3 3 Stocks c 14 23 Restructuring costs d 7 Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits e 26 24 Share compensation f 17 5 Derivative instruments and debt translation h 205 61 Mexican excise rebate k 40 Franchise income m 6 10 Other 6 3 Deferred taxation other i 11 Deferred taxation on above US GAAP adjustments i 18 29 Minority share of above adjustments Net income in accordance with US GAAP 456 279 Other comprehensive income: Minimum pension liability 8 61 Currency translation differences 175 184 Comprehensive income in accordance with US GAAP 289 402 Net earnings per Ordinary Share Basic 42.4p 26.0p Diluted 42.1p 25.9p Shareholders equity Year to Year to 31 August 31 August 2003 2004 restated Note m m Shareholders funds as reported in the Group balance sheet as restated, see page 55 510 237 Adjustments to conform with US GAAP: Brands a 1,144 1,361 Goodwill a 270 244 Other intangible assets costs a 159 179 Other intangible assets accumulated amortisation a 143 158 Associated undertakings b 54 57 Stock c 12 26 Restructuring costs d 1 1 Pension and other post-retirement benefits e 104 185 Share compensation f 8 6 Proposed dividends g 104 93 Derivative instruments and debt translation h 1 18 Liabilities l 38 42 Franchise income m 23 19 Other 17 8 Deferred taxation other i Deferred taxation on above US GAAP adjustments i 425 529 Minority share of above adjustments Shareholders equity in accordance with US GAAP 1,737 1,631 85
