Accounting policies Year to 31 August 2004 Basis of accounting Fixed asset investments The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention Fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less provision for any and comply with accounting policies generally accepted in the permanent diminution in value.
Turnover The significant differences between UK GAAP and US generally Turnover represents sales to external customers including excise accepted accounting principles US GAAP and a reconciliation duties but excluding sales taxes and franchise income.
of net income and Shareholders equity from UK GAAP to US GAAP as a result of such differences are shown on pages 82 to 85.
Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Changes in accounting policies Cost comprises purchase price or direct production cost, together The Group has adopted FRS 17 Retirement benefits in full with duties and manufacturing overheads.
The cost of spirits and from 1 September 2003 see note 5.
In prior years the Group wine stocks is determined by the weighted average cost method.
has complied with the transitional disclosure requirements of this Stocks are included in current assets, although a portion of such standard.
The Group has also adopted Application Note G stocks may be held for periods longer than one year.
revenue recognition an amendment to FRS 5 Reporting the substance of transactions see note 1 and has complied with Deferred tax UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts see note 14.
Full provision is made for deferred tax assets and liabilities arising The impact of the adoption of these accounting standards has been from timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the reflected throughout the accounts.
Prior year comparatives have extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
been restated where appropriate see note 23.
Financial instruments Basis of consolidation The Group uses financial derivative instruments to manage Allied Domecq PLC the Group or Company accounts exposures to movements in interest and exchange rates.
consolidate the accounts of the Company and its interests in Transactions involving financial instruments are accounted for subsidiary undertakings.
Interests in associated undertakings as follows: are included using the equity method of accounting.
The results i Gains or losses arising on forward exchange contracts are of businesses acquired or disposed of during the year are taken to the profit and loss account in the same period as the consolidated for the period from, or up to, the date control passes.
Premiums paid or received on foreign currency options are taken to the profit and loss account when Acquisitions the option expires or matures.
On the acquisition of a business, or an interest in an associate, ii Net interest arising on interest rate agreements is taken to the fair values, that reflect conditions at the date of the acquisition, profit and loss account over the life of the agreement.
are attributed to the net assets acquired.
Adjustments are also iii Gains and losses on foreign currency debt and foreign exchange made to bring accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
contracts held for the purposes of hedging balance sheet translation exposures are taken to reserves.
Intangible fixed assets Goodwill arising on acquisitions of a business since 1 September Foreign currencies 1998 is capitalised and amortised by equal instalments over its Monetary assets and liabilities arising from transactions in foreign anticipated useful life, but not exceeding 20 years.
Goodwill arising currencies are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the on acquisitions prior to 1 September 1998 was charged directly date of transaction.
Subsequent movements in exchange rates to reserves.
On disposal of a business, any attributable goodwill are included in the Group profit and loss account.
The results of previously eliminated against reserves is included in the calculation undertakings outside the UK are translated at weighted average of any gain or loss.
Purchased intangible assets are also capitalised exchange rates each month.
The closing balance sheets of and amortised over their estimated useful economic lives on a undertakings outside the UK are translated at year end rates.
straight line basis, except for purchased brand intangible assets.
Exchange rate differences arising from the translation of foreign Purchased brand intangible assets are considered by the Board currency denominated balance sheets to closing rates are dealt of Directors to have an indefinite life given the proven longevity with through reserves.
of premium spirits brands and the continued level of marketing support.
We do not amortise purchased brand intangible assets Pension and post employment benefits but they are subject to annual impairment reviews.
In accordance with FRS 17 Retirement benefits, the operating and financing costs of pension and post-retirement schemes are Tangible fixed assets recognised separately in the profit and loss account.
Service costs Tangible fixed assets are capitalised at cost.
Depreciation is are systematically spread over the service lives of the employees provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of and financing costs are recognised in the period in which they arise.
assets by equal instalments over their estimated useful economic The costs of past service benefit enhancements, settlements and lives as follows: land and buildings the shorter of 50 years or the curtailments are also recognised in the period in which they arise.
length of the lease: distilling and maturing equipment 20 years: The difference between actual and expected returns on assets storage tanks 20 to 50 years: other plant and equipment and during the year, including changes in actuarial assumptions, are fixtures and fittings 5 to 12 years: and computer software recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Vineyard developments are not depreciated in the first 3 years unless they become productive within that time.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
