Glossary Advertising and promotion A&P Goodwill Expenditure on advertising and promotion of brands.
The difference between the price paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired.
Associated undertaking An entity in which the Group is able to exercise significant influence, Liquid resources normally by controlling more than 20% of the voting rights.
Liquid resources comprise short-term deposits which have maturity dates of less than three months.
For example, Ballantines in Spain Local market leaders is a BMC.
These are brands that have a strong position in a particular market.
These will include such brands as Stolichnaya and Hiram Walker Bulk sales Liqueurs in the US: Mexican brandies: Whisky DYC and Centenario Sales of unbottled unbranded spirit sold in bulk to other spirits in Spain: Imperial in Korea: Fundador in the Philippines: Teachers and wine producers.
in the UK and Kuemmerling in Germany.
These brands fall into two categories: those that deliver critical mass in key markets and those Constant actual exchange that provide an opportunity for strong value growth.
Profits or earnings where the prior year results of operations outside the UK are stated in sterling at the current year weighted average Market capitalisation exchange rate to give a constant measure of growth year on year.
The price of one of the Companys Ordinary Shares multiplied by the number of shares in issue.
Core brands The global priority brands are Ballantines, Beefeater, Canadian Club, Net brand contribution NBC Courvoisier, Kahla, Makers Mark, Malibu, Sauza and Tia Maria.
A measure of brand profitability before overhead costs but after A&P has been allocated.
Dividend cover Earnings per share divided by dividends per share, to assess the Net turnover Groups ability to pay dividends.
Gross turnover excluding excise duty.
Earnings per share EPS Normalised Profit for the year after tax and minority interests Earnings divided Profits or earnings before exceptional items and goodwill by the average number of shares.
EBITA Ready-to-drink RTD Earnings Before Interest and Tax and Amortisation of intangible fixed These are drinks which are sold in a premixed format.
Reserves EBITDA Mainly profits and surpluses retained within the business.
Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation of tangible fixed assets and Amortisation of intangible fixed assets.
Return on investment ROI Trading profit after tax expressed as a percentage of the average and Exceptional items total of capital and reserves plus net debt and goodwill written off.
Gains or costs that are disclosed separately because they arise outside the normal business activity.
Same store sales Sales from established stores that have traded for at least two years Franchising and therefore the year on year comparison is not distorted by openings Business where individuals and or corporations are provided with and closings.
the rights to market a specific companys goods and or services in a designated area for a designated fee.
Subsidiary undertaking An entity in which the Group exercises a dominant influence, normally Free cash flow by controlling more than 50% of the voting rights.
Operating cash less taxation, interest and dividends paid to shareholders and minority interest.
Trade working capital Trade working capital comprises total stock plus trade debtors Gearing enterprise value EV less trade creditors.
Net debt expressed as a percentage of the total of the Groups market capitalisation plus net debt.
Designed and produced by williams and phoa.
Photography by John Ross Printed in the UK on paper made from 50% pulp, 50% recycled fibres and is biodegradable.
All brands mentioned in this Annual Report are trademarks and are registered and or otherwise protected in accordance with applicable law.
89 89 Allied Domecq PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bedminster Down Bristol BS13 8AR UK Registered number: 3771147 Registered in England and Wales Telephone: 44 0 117 978 5000 www.
