Accounts 80 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Headlam Group plc AGM will be held at the groups distribution facility located at Gorsey Lane, Coleshill, Birmingham, West Midlands, B46 1LW on 27 May 2005 at 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
As ordinary business 1 To receive, consider and adopt the report of the directors and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004, together with the auditors report.
3 To re-elect as a director Graham Waldron who retires in accordance with the Articles of Association and is eligible for re-election.
As Graham Waldron has attained the age of 74, being born on 16 April 1930, this resolution authorising his re-election as a director for a period of twelve months expires at the conclusion of the next AGM.
4 To re-elect as a director Tom Anderson who retires in accordance with the Articles of Association and is eligible for re-election.
5 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the company until the conclusion of the next AGM.
6 To authorise the directors to agree the remuneration of the independent auditors of the company.
As special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as special resolutions 7 That, pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Article 18 of the companys Articles of Association 7.1 the directors are empowered to allot equity securities: and the sum applicable for the purpose of Article 18 is 215,300: and 7.2 such power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or on 27 August 2005, whichever is the earlier.
8 That the company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 5p each in its capital provided that 8.1 this power shall be limited so that the number of ordinary shares of 5p each which may be acquired pursuant to this authority does not exceed an aggregate of 12,921,200 ordinary shares representing approximately 15% of the companys issued ordinary share capital and shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the company except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such time and which is executed wholly or partly after such time : and 8.2 the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall not be more than 5% above the average of the market values for an ordinary share as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the purchase is made and the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 5p in each case exclusive of expenses.
Accounts 81 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution: 9 That the Remuneration Report set out on pages 35 to 40 of the Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 be approved.
By order of the board Geoff Duggan Company Secretary 14 March 2005 Registered Office Headlam Group plc, PO Box 1, Gorsey Lane, Coleshill, Birmingham, B46 1LW Notes 1 A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of the member.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
Proxy forms must be lodged with the registrar not later than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
Completion of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting thereat.
2 Ordinary shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at this meeting.
3 Copies of the directors service contracts and, where appropriate, letters of appointment, a summary of the directors transactions in the companys shares during the year and written terms of reference for each of the remuneration, audit and nomination committees will be available for inspection at the registered office of the company during business hours from the date of this notice until the close of business on the business day preceding the AGM and will also be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and throughout the meeting.
4 There are no service agreements between any director and any subsidiary of the company.
5 In accordance with regulation 34 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 1995, the company has determined that only those members whose names are entered in the register of members at 10.00 a. m. on 25 May 2005 shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Accounts 82 Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Shareholder information Enquiries relating to administrative matters, some of which are listed below, should be addressed to the companys registrars: Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield, HD8 0LA, Telephone 44 0 870 1623131, email: shareholder.
Dividend payment enquiries Loss of share certificates dividend warrants tax vouchers Notification of change of address Transfer of shares You can access your shareholding details and a range of other shareholder services at the Capita Registrars website: www.
com Unsolicited mail As the companys share register is, by law, open to public inspection, shareholders may receive unsolicited mail from organisations that use it as a mailing list.
To reduce the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, contact: The Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 22, London, W1E 7EZ, Telephone 44 0 845 7034599 Report and Accounts Information about and access to the current and prior year annual report and accounts can be found on the companys website: www.
com Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.
co. uk Registered office Headlam Group plc PO Box 1 Gorsey Lane Coleshill Birmingham B46 1LW Website www.
com Registration Registered in England and Wales Number 460129
