Accounting policies 53 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Basis of preparation The consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries are made up to the Saturday on or immediately preceding 30 April each year.
Consequently, the financial statements for the current period cover the 52 weeks ended 24 April 2004, whilst the comparative period covered the 52 weeks ended 26 April 2003.
The consolidated accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention, in accordance with applicable accounting standards and specifically in accordance with the Accounting Policies set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The comparative results of all subsidiaries were taken from their accounts made up to or about 24 April 2004.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during a period are included from the date that effective control passed.
Change of Accounting Policies The Accounting Policies set out below are consistent with the previous year, except for the adoption of UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts and UITF 17 revised Employee share schemes.
Details of the restatement arising from the adoption of UITF 38 and UITF 17 revised are shown in Note 30.
In addition, the amendment to Financial Reporting Standard 5 Reporting the Substance of Transactions Application Note G Revenue Recognition has also been adopted during the year with no material impact on the Accounting Policies of the Group.
Turnover Turnover represents the value of goods and services supplied, less discounts given.
Turnover excludes value added tax VAT and similar sales-related taxes.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 25 April 1998 was set off directly against reserves.
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves has not been reinstated on implementation of FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets.
Positive goodwill arising on acquisitions since 25 April 1998 is capitalised, classified as an asset on the Balance Sheet and amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful economic life up to a presumed maximum of 20 years.
It is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full financial year following the acquisition and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If a subsidiary, associate or business is subsequently sold or closed, any goodwill arising on acquisition that was set off directly against reserves or that has not been amortised through the Profit and Loss Account is taken into account in determining the profit or loss on sale or closure.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are valued at cost and amortised over their useful life up to a presumed maximum of 20 years, unless the asset can be demonstrated to have an indefinite life.
Assets amortised over 20 years or less are reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full financial year following the acquisition and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Non-amortisation is supported by an annual impairment review.
Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into Sterling either at period end rates or, where there are related foreign exchange contracts, at contract rates.
The resulting foreign exchange differences are dealt with in the determination of profit loss for the period.
On consolidation, average exchange rates have been used to translate the results of overseas companies and businesses, and the assets and liabilities of overseas companies and businesses are translated into Sterling at period end rates.
Exchange differences are dealt with as a movement in reserves where they arise from the translation of the opening net assets of overseas operations, the retranslation of retained earnings of overseas operations from average to closing rates of exchange and the translation or conversion of foreign currency borrowings taken to hedge overseas assets.
In addition, exchange differences arising on the retranslation of goodwill at historic rates are also taken to Group reserves.
Advertising costs Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Leased assets In respect of property operating leases, benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign a lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the period to the date of the first rent review.
All other operating lease payments are charged directly to the Profit and Loss Account in the financial period to which the payments relate.
Tangible fixed assets The capitalised cost of tangible fixed assets includes only those costs that are directly attributable to bringing an asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets is calculated on cost, at rates estimated to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of the relevant assets by equal annual amounts over their estimated useful lives.
The annual rates used are: Short-term leasehold property Period of the lease 1 Plant, equipment and vehicles 10 to 33 3% The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for material impairment in periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Accounting policies continued 54 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Stocks Stocks, which represent finished goods and goods for resale, are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first-in, first-out basis.
Deferred taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profits for the period and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the Balance Sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in the future have occurred at the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Pension costs The Company operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
For the defined benefit schemes pension costs are charged to the Profit and Loss Account so as to spread the cost of the pensions over the working lives of the employees.
Valuation surpluses or deficits are amortised over the expected remaining working life within the Group of the relevant employees estimated to be eight years in respect of the UK.
The amortisation of valuation surpluses is restricted to an amount equal to the regular pension cost.
For the defined contribution schemes, contributions are charged in the Profit and Loss Account as they become payable in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Derivative instruments The Group may from time to time use derivative instruments for hedging purposes, including cross-currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency options and interest rate contracts.
A financial derivative is considered to be a hedge by the Group when it alters the risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Group in line with the risk management policies of the Group.
Interest differentials on derivative instruments are recognised by adjusting net interest payable.
Premiums or discounts arising on derivative instruments are amortised over the life of the instrument.
Forward rate agreements, currency swap agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts are valued at the contract rate in respect of their ongoing carrying value in the financial statements and at closing market rates of exchange for market valuation.
The fair value of options is based on market prices at the year end.
The Group generally does not hedge translation exposure of overseas earnings or net assets, although the Group may implement short-term hedges to secure short-term financial objectives.
The underlying asset or liability associated with the financial instrument is valued at the rate implicit in the instrument.
Capital instruments Shares are included in shareholders funds.
Other instruments are classified as liabilities if they contain an obligation to transfer economic benefits and if not they are included in shareholders funds.
The finance cost recognised in the Profit and Loss Account in respect of capital instruments other than equity shares is allocated to periods over the term of the instrument at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Investment in own shares Investments in own shares, held through an Employee Benefit Trust, are shown as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost in accordance with UITF 38.
Deferred bonus scheme The cost of awards made under the deferred annual bonus component of the HIPS is charged to the Profit and Loss Account based on an assessment of the probability of the performance conditions being met.
The charge is allocated on a straight-line basis over the performance period of the scheme.
The corresponding credit entry is taken to profit and loss reserve in accordance with UITF 17.
Full details of the HIPS are given in the Remuneration Report.
