DEFINITIONS Definitions In this document the following words and expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings: ADR American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS ADS American Depositary Share representing four underlying Ordinary Shares of the Company bn billion 1,000 million Company Imperial Chemical Industries PLC Comparable performance References to comparable performance excludes the effect of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments on the results reported by the International Businesses.
Performance is measured on a consistent basis over two or more financial periods.
Comparable results for both 2004 and 2003 are translated at constant exchange rates, which equate to the annual average 130 exchange rates for 2003 and exclude the results of divested businesses and the impact of acquired businesses from the relevant periods.
Demerger The Demerger of Zeneca Limited and its subsidiaries from the ICI Group Depositary Citibank Shareholder Services, as depositary under the deposit agreement pursuant to which the ADRs are issued Directors The Directors of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA ICI defines EBITDA as profit before interest, tax, depreciation, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
ICIs total depreciation before exceptional asset write-downs was 169m 2003 191m: 2002 196m.
Management believes EBITDA serves as an important financial indicator, however, EBITDA should not be considered in isolation, or as an alternative to operating profit or net profit or cash flow from operating activities, in each case, determined in accordance with UK or US GAAP as appropriate.
Effective tax rate Effective tax rate is calculated as taxation excluding tax on exceptional items divided by profit before tax, before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
ESOP Employee share ownership plans, of which the principal plans are the 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, the 1994 Senior Staff Share Option Scheme, the 1994 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, the Performance Growth Plan and the Performance Share Plan.
FRS Financial Reporting Standard UK ICI, ICI Group or the Group Imperial Chemical Industries PLC and its subsidiaries Interest cover Calculations of interest cover are based on the sum of the Groups operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, and net associated company income associate operating profit less share of net interest payable by associates divided by ICIs interest cost excluding associate interest.
London Stock Exchange London Stock Exchange plc m million NYSE New York Stock Exchange Ordinary Shares Ordinary shares of 1 each in the capital of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC pound sterling, pence or p Refers to units of UK currency SEC The United States Securities and Exchange Commission SFAS Statement of Financial Accounting Standards US Trading profit ICI defines trading profit as operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Trading margin Trading profit, expressed as a percentage of sales.
UK or United Kingdom United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland US dollar, dollar, US$ or $ Refers to units of US currency USA or US or United States United States of America Zeneca a in relation to the period prior to the Demerger becoming effective, the pharmaceuticals, agricultural chemicals, seeds, specialty chemical and biological products businesses and companies transferred by the ICI Group to Zeneca Limited: and b in relation to the period after the Demerger becoming effective, Zeneca Group PLC and its subsidiaries Figures in parentheses in tables and financial statements are used to represent negative numbers.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 DEFINITIONS Definitions used in computation of Group Financial Targets Comparable sales growth Sales growth compared to prior period excluding the effects of currency translation differences and the impact of acquisitions and divestments.
Trading margin Trading profit expressed as a percentage of sales.
Group earnings per Ordinary Share Group profit after tax and minority interests divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue less the weighted average number of shares held by the Groups employee share plans during the period.
Return on average net assets RONA Trading profit as a percentage of average net operating assets excluding goodwill.
Return on capital employed ROCE Group trading profit after goodwill amortisation, before exceptional items, after restructuring 131 amortisation and after a tax charge for the last twelve months divided by the average of capital employed for this current period end and that of the twelve months previously: expressed as a percentage.
Notes: Cash expenditure on restructuring is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of the expenditure.
A tax charge is applied to the Group trading profit before goodwill amortisation and after restructuring amortisation using the Groups effective tax rate for the year 2004: 28%, 2003: 29%.
Capital employed ICI defines capital employed as net operating assets plus net operating exceptional items.
Net operating assets Tangible fixed assets plus goodwill on acquisitions plus operating working capital.
Goodwill on acquisitions relates to goodwill capitalised on the Group balance sheet and, therefore, excludes goodwill arising prior to 31 December 1997 largely that arising on the acquisition of the Unilever Speciality Chemical businesses which has been charged directly to reserves.
Net operating exceptional items For financial ratio calculation purposes only, this is defined as: Asset write downs arising on restructuring plus cash cost of restructuring before tax and after amortisation: for financial ratio purposes only, cash expenditure is capitalised in each year that expenditure occurs and is then amortised over three years starting on 1 January following the year of expenditure.
ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
