TRANSITION TO INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards ICI will be reporting its financial results in accordance with International statement, unless the loans can be designated as part of the Groups Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European investment in its foreign operations, when the exchange gains losses can Union EU from 1 January 2005. then be recognised in reserves.
However, IFRS is stricter in determining which loans can be designated as part of the Groups investment in its The transition date for adoption of IFRS is determined in accordance foreign operations, including exclusion of intra-group loans that are not with IFRS 1 First Time Adopting of International Financial Reporting in the functional currency of either the lender or the borrower.
Group Standards, and has provisionally been determined as 1 January 2004.
Treasury has taken action to reduce the potential volatility arising from However, this transition date is subject to finalisation of the Securities this change in accounting treatment.
In particular, significant nonand Exchange Commission SEC proposed rule for an exemption from functional currency loans have been re-designated into sterling.
provision of a second year of comparatives.
If the SEC does not confirm this exemption, or the conditions are unduly onerous or impractical for In addition to the above, the Group partially hedges its net investment the Group, the transition date will be 1 January 2003. in foreign subsidiaries by denominating external debt in a mix of foreign 122 currencies.
Under UK GAAP, the goodwill, which was offset against As noted in the 2003 Annual Report, the Group established a project reserves is included as an asset in this hedge calculation.
Under IFRS, team and Steering Committee to oversee the transition to IFRS.
goodwill in reserves is not designated as an asset and therefore cannot The project comprised a number of workstreams covering the areas be used in the hedging calculation.
The exclusion of goodwill in reserves identified as being impacted by the move to IFRS.
There were fourteen from the assets in the hedge calculation will introduce volatility into of these workstreams covering key specific areas such as financial the income statement as a result of the impact of foreign exchange instruments, foreign exchange, share options, pensions and other areas differences arising from movements on that part of the debt that such as Group policy databases, budget processes, systems and cannot be considered a part of the net investment hedge.
controls, training, presentation of accounts and investor relations.
IAS 32 IAS 39 Financial instruments The project team completed an impact analysis of each standard, which The Group will take the exemption not to restate comparatives for identified the main differences between the Groups existing accounting IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation, and IAS 39 policies and IFRS, the effect on the reporting process and the system Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
As a result, the changes required.
The Groups consolidation system was modified to comparative information in the 2005 Financial Statements will be comply with IFRS.
Training on IFRS was delivered to key finance staff presented on the existing UK GAAP basis.
The Group will present a throughout the Group.
reconciliation between the closing 2004 balance sheet and the opening The key areas identified that affect the Group accounts under IFRS are 2005 balance sheet with the results for the six months to 30 June 2005. as follows: The own shares that the Group has acquired, or is committed to acquire IAS 19 Employee benefits under forward contracts, to hedge its obligations under various share The Group will measure pension commitments and other related benefits option schemes will be included as treasury stock under IAS 32.
As the in accordance with IAS 19.
ICI plans to adopt the option in IAS 19 Group has the option to equity settle the forward contracts they will be allowing all actuarial gains or losses to be taken directly to the statement included in treasury stock on transition and no fair valuation will be of recognised income and expense, subject to endorsement by the EU.
performed on such contracts going forward.
The associated liabilities Measurement of the Groups pension commitments and other related for these contracts will be included as part of net debt for the amount benefits under IAS 19 is estimated to produce broadly similar results to reflecting the extent that the contracts are out of the money and as an those under FRS 17.
Disclosure of the Groups retirement benefit other liability for the amount reflecting the current recoverable amount arrangements in accordance with FRS 17 is provided in Note 36. if the contracts were to be cash settled.
IFRS 2 Share-based payments Other matters The Group operates a range of share-based incentive schemes both IAS 1 does not provide definitive guidance on the format of the income awards of options and shares for employees that are impacted by statement, but states key lines that should be disclosed.
Under the Groups current accounting policies, an expense has additional line items and headings to be presented on the face of the only been recognised for the awards of shares and this expense has income statement when such presentation is relevant to an been calculated and is based on intrinsic value.
Under IFRS 2, an understanding of the entitys financial performance.
IAS 1 explains that expense will be recognised in the income statement for all share based due to the effects of an entitys various activities, transactions and other payments.
This expense will be calculated based on the fair value at the events differing in frequency, potential for gain or loss and predictability, date of the award using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
disclosing components of financial performance assists in an understanding of the financial performance achieved and in making The Group does not intend to adopt the exemption under IFRS 2 to apply projections of future results.
Factors to be considered include materiality the standard only to awards made after 7 November 2002, instead a full and the nature and function of the components of income and expense.
retrospective approach will be followed in order to provide full year ICI believes items that were previously referred to as exceptional items on year comparability of results.
under UK GAAP should still be separately identified to assist in IFRS 3 Business combinations understanding the financial performance of the Group.
Such items The Group will adopt the exemption in IFRS 1 to apply IFRS 3 will be included within special items under IFRS.
prospectively from the transition date and thus not to restate business Whilst no changes to the segments are required beyond the existing combinations prior to this date.
The Group has not undertaken any International Business level, ICI intends, given the stricter definitions and significant acquisitions since the transition date.
The impact on the to reflect better the structure of the Group.
A reconciling item will be financial statements of adopting this standard is the cessation of included in the Group's segment disclosure that represents Corporate amortisation of goodwill, which instead will be tested for impairment on and Other costs that are not directly attributable to individual segments transition, and annually thereafter.
"i. e. largely those relating to operating as a ""PLC""."
IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates Parent Company Accounts The Group has a range of intercompany funding arrangements in place ICI will to continue to present the Company accounts in accordance with in order to optimise the sourcing of finance for the Group and optimise UK GAAP for the foreseeable future.
Consequently Company accounts the funding of its subsidiaries.
Under both UK GAAP and IFRS, foreign will be presented separately from the Group accounts.
exchange gains losses on intra-group loans are recognised in the income ICI ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
