Index A E R Accounting Earnings per share 02, 15, 69 Reconciliation of movements Policies 61-62 Employee share schemes 83 in shareholders funds 91 Policy and presentation changes 61, 84 Employees Employment 31, 37-38, 67 Regional Performance Analysis 14 Accounts 58-103 Environmental Management 33 Registrars 34 Acquisitions IFC, 14, 37, 85 Exceptional Items 14, 66 Remuneration Committee 41, 45 Africa 23 Remuneration Report 45-56 American Depositary F Report of the Directors 37-38 Receipts Shares 34-35, 97 Financial Calendar 35 Rest of the World region 22-23 Annual General Meeting 35, 38 Financial Highlights 02-03 Rest of Western Europe region 20-21 Asia 23 Fixed assets 70-71 Risk 42 Audit Committee 41 France 21 Russia 23 Auditor Independent Auditor remuneration 66 G S report 57 Germany 18-19 Segmental information 14, 63-65 Australia 23 Glossary of Terms 105 Share capital 37, 81 Greece 21 Share price 52, 55 B Shareholder information 34-35 Balance Sheets 59, 99 H Slovakia 23 Board Committees 39-41 Health and Safety 24, 31 Slovenia 23 Board of Directors 28-29, 37 Hungary 23 Smoking in Public Places 26 Brands IFC, 10-11 Social and Community Investment 33 Business description IFC I Spain 21 Business highlights IFC Imperial Tobacco at a glance IFC Statement of total recognised Business in the Community Interest 14, 67 gains and losses 58 Environment Index 33 International Financial Strategy IFC Buyback of ordinary shares 06, 15 Reporting Standards 15, 92-93 Subsidiary undertakings 102-103 International Reach 08-09 Supply Chain Management 24 C Ireland 21 Contents 01 Italy 21 T Contingent liabilities 101 Taiwan 23 Capital expenditure 15 L Taxation 14, 27, 68 Carbon Disclosure Project 33 Laos 23 Total Shareholder Return Index 03, 53 Cash flow 15, 60 Litigation 27 Travel retail 21 Chairman and Turkey 23 Chief Executives Statement 04-07 M Chief Executives Committee 30-31 Manufacturing 24 U China 23 Multi-Product Advantage 10-11 Ukraine, The 23 Company hallmarks 01 United Kingdom 16-17 Company profile IFC N UK US GAAP reconciliation 94-98 Corporate Governance Report 39-44 Nominations Committee 41 Corporate Responsibilities 28-35 Notes to the accounts 63-98, 100-101 V Corporate Responsibility Review 32-33 Netherlands, The 21 Vietnam 23 Cost & Capital Management 24 Creditor payment policy 38 O The cover and pages 1 - 36 are printed on Czech Republic 23 Operating and Financial Review 12-27 Mega Matt.
Mega Matt is a coated paper which Operating Environment 26-27 has Nordic Swan environmental accreditation.
D Outlook 06, 17, 19, 21, 23, 24 It comprises 50% totally chlorine-free pulps Debt 15, 73-80, 91 from plantation forests, generally using forest Directors P thinnings, offcuts and surplus timber, and 50% interests in shares 50 Pensions 44, 86-90 recycled and fide-inked fibres from preremuneration 49-56 Poland 23 consumer and post-consumer waste, without responsibilities 44 Profit and Loss accounts 58, 101 using chlorine in the fide-inking process.
pages Disposals 13-14 Provisions for liabilities and charges 81 37 - 104 are printed on Storafine.
Storafine is Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP 35 manufactured by StoraEnso in Sweden and Dividends 05, 15, 37, 69 also has the Nordic Swan environmental Donations 33, 38 accreditation.
The fibre used is 100% chlorineDuty free 23 free made by StoraCell in Sweden.
It is made from waste of the timber industry and forest thinnings from plantation forests.. 104 Glossary of Terms American Depositary Receipt ADR LSE Certificate evidencing a holding of American Depositary Shares.
American Depositary Share ADS Market capitalisation Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the The latest closing price of this share multiplied by the number of New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary shares issued.
Shares ADSs using the symbol ITY.
Each ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares.
The ADS programme Market Share is administered by Citibank.
All market shares and comparisons of market shares are stated on a moving annual total basis, unless stated otherwise.
This has Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EBITA required the restating of some 2003 comparatives.
All market Profit on ordinary activities before interest adjusted for goodwill shares are Imperial Tobacco best estimates based on the most amortisation and exceptional items.
Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation and MRO or RMO amortisation EBITDA Mobile Retail Outlet or Registered Mobile Operator includes crossProfit on ordinary activities before interest adjusted for goodwill channel ferries, Eurotunnel shop, French and Spanish airports.
amortisation and exceptional items plus depreciation.
MYO Earnings per share EPS adjusted Make your own: loose tobacco which is made into a cigarette As for Earnings per share but adjusted to exclude amortisation using a tubing machine and filter tubes.
The adjustments allow EPS to be measured on a comparable basis with previous years.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
Earnings per share basic Profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by OTP the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Other tobacco products rolling tobacco, rolling papers, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff.
Earnings per share diluted Profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by Price earnings multiple the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period, This is the share price divided by the diluted adjusted EPS.
plus the dilutive effect of the exercise of all employee share options.
Price earnings P E ratio Effective tax rate The share price divided by earnings per share.
This measures the The tax charge as a percentage of profit before tax.
number of years earnings required to equal the current market value.
Enterprise value EV Market capitalisation plus net debt.
Private label An exclusive retailer or distributor brand usually in the low-value EV EBITDA segment.
A ratio which compares companies using all the capital employed, including debt.
RYO Loose tobacco which is used with rolling papers to hand make Exceptional item cigarettes.
A large unusual item outside the day-to-day activities of the Group.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC Ex-dividend date The weighted average of the costs of various types of capital that The date from which shares are traded without the right to the next finance a company or a project.
Capital would generally include a dividend payment.
L Symbol used on the London Stock Exchange for Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares.
N Symbol used on the New York Stock Exchange for Imperial Designed and produced by MAGEE Tobacco Group PLC shares.
Printed by CTD Printers Ltd. 105 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS IMPERIAL TOBACCO, the worlds fourth 2004 largest international tobacco company, manufactures, markets and sells a comprehensive range of cigarettes, tobaccos, rolling papers and cigars.
Our strategy to create sustainable shareholder value by growing our operations both organically and through acquisitions.
The consistent application of our strategy has delivered compound annual growth both in adjusted earnings per share and in dividends per share of 17% since 2000.
Delivering sustainable shareholder value Successful acquisition track record IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 4.8bn invested PO BOX 244 SOUTHVILLE 2004: Business and assets of the CTC Tube Company of Canada BRISTOL BS99 7UJ 2002: Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH www.
2000: The Baelen Group, The EFKA Group, Mayfair Vending 1999: Brand acquisition in Australia and New Zealand 1998: Van Nelle Tabak 1997: Rizla Proven integration record Synergies achieved or exceeded ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2004 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT IMPERIAL TOBACCO, the worlds fourth 2004 largest international tobacco company, manufactures, markets and sells a comprehensive range of cigarettes, tobaccos, rolling papers and cigars.
2000: The Baelen Group, The EFKA Group, Mayfair Vending 1999: Brand acquisition in Australia and New Zealand 1998: Van Nelle Tabak 1997: Rizla Proven integration record Synergies achieved or exceeded IMPERIAL TOBACCO, the worlds fourth largest international tobacco company, manufactures, markets and sells a comprehensive range of cigarettes, tobaccos, rolling papers and cigars.
Successful acquisition track record 4.8bn invested 2004: Business and assets of the CTC Tube Company of Canada 2002: Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH 2001: Tobaccor S. A.
2000: The Baelen Group, The EFKA Group, Mayfair Vending 1999: Brand acquisition in Australia and New Zealand 1998: Van Nelle Tabak 1997: Rizla Proven integration record Synergies achieved or exceeded 01 INTRODUCTION 02 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 04 CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT 08 INTERNATIONAL REACH 10 MULTI-PRODUCT ADVANTAGE 12 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITIES 28 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 30 CHIEF EXECUTIVES COMMITTEE 34 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 37 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A strong 42 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 54 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 57 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF TOTAL foundation for RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES 57 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 58 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS future growth 59 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 60 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 62 SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UK AND US GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GAAP 65 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES 67 INDEX Company Hallmarks 68 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Strong financial performance Profitable core markets International reach International brand equity Multi-product advantage Successful acquisitions Cost focus.
01 Our business highlights in 2004 For the past five years, our total shareholder return has grown by 19.5 per cent year on year and we have outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index by 163 per cent.
Our broad international coverage has produced some excellent results.
We have grown our market shares in a number of markets in Western Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
Supporting this performance has been our strong multi-product portfolio: Our strategic cigarette brand Davidoff has grown volumes by on average 15 per cent across all our regions, demonstrating its international appeal.
Our strength in the profitable other tobacco products sector with brands such as Golden Virginia, Drum and Van Nelle has underpinned our profit delivery in the Rest of Western Europe region.
The number one and number two cigarette brands Lambert & Butler and Richmond performed well, further extending our UK market leadership.
The national launch of the JPS brand family in Germany in April 2004 has supported our improving profits.
Across our manufacturing sites we improved productivity, with significant progress made to further standardise our products, processes and systems.
Our success in 2004 was as much about our people as our products and markets.
We aim to provide an environment where our employees can maximise their potential.
We produce a comprehensive range of cigarettes and other tobacco products Sales in over 130 countries some 15,000 employees 33 factories Our key brands Rizla Rizla is the worlds No.
1 rolling paper, sold in over 50 countries.
Lambert & Butler Davidoff Lambert & Butler has been In 2004, Davidoff experienced the UKs best selling cigarette significant volume growth brand for the past 6 years.
JPS JPS is a key value brand within our cigarette portfolio with its major markets being France, West the UK, Germany and Spain.
West is our biggest cigarette brand.
Drum We are world leader in roll your own tobacco, with Drum one of our key brands.
Management believes that reporting results before amortisation and exceptional items adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, adjusted profit after tax and adjusted earnings per share provides a better comparison of underlying business performance for the year.. 02 Adjusted operating profit Cash conversion rate Interest cover 1,218m 98% 6.0times up 7% on 2003 Total Shareholder Return Index We are focused on shareholder value creation.
Since 2000, total shareholder return has grown by 19.5 per cent year on year and we have outperformed the FTSE All-Share Index by 163 per cent.. 03 Chairman and Chief Executives Statement Derek Bonham Chairman left Gareth Davis Chief Executive At the heart of everything we do is a desire to create These positive results reflect sustainable profitable growth for our shareholders, while ensuring we continue to meet the current and the progress made future needs of our consumers.
throughout the Group during Our comprehensive portfolio of tobacco products and the year.
Imperial Tobacco brands, our geographic diversity and our proactive approach mean we are well placed to capitalise on remains a highly cash changes in our external environment as we pursue growth, both organically and through acquisition.
generative business, with strong earnings growth.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Our financial performance reflects our operational progress, supported by continuing cost efficiencies, and the effective use of our cash.
Turnover excluding duty in 2004 was 3.0 billion 2003: 3.2 billion, impacted by the sale of two wholesale businesses last year and adverse foreign exchange movements, totalling around 0.2 billion.
Adjusting for these factors, turnover was broadly flat, with our focus on profitable volume development compensating for certain market size pressures in the year, particularly in Germany and France.
Adjusted operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items increased by 7 per cent to over 1.2 billion.
Reported profit after amortisation and exceptional items was flat at 885 million 2003: 881 million.. 04 With a reduction in the interest charge to 204 million Outside our manufacturing operations the same 2003: 237 million, adjusted profit on ordinary rigorous management approach is applied, ensuring activities before taxation increased by 13 per cent to effective control of both the costs and capital over 1 billion.
Adjusted earnings per share were up employed by the Group around the world.
13 per cent to 101.6 pence, from 90.0 pence in The acquisition of the business and assets of the 2003.
Basic earnings per share were 61.4 pence CTC Tube Company of Canada in May provided an 2003: 58.1 pence.
opportunity to strengthen our position in the growing rolling papers and tubes markets.
Although this was a small acquisition for Imperial Tobacco, we have been encouraged by the opportunities this business offers.
DIVIDEND The Board recommends a final dividend of 35.0 pence per share bringing the total dividend for 2004 to 50.0 pence, an increase of 19 per cent OUR ENVIRONMENT 2003: 42.0 pence.
As we said in our interim report Together with other tobacco growers, manufacturers in April, this takes us back to our historical annual and suppliers, we are part of an estimated dividend payout of around 50 per cent of earnings.
We recognise The dividend will be paid on 18 February 2005 to that our industry remains controversial.
We are shareholders on the register at the close of business committed to providing consumers with high quality on 21 January 2005. tobacco products, while continuing to seek constructive dialogue with governments and regulatory bodies in pursuit of reasonable and appropriate regulation.
ANOTHER YEAR OF PROGRESS This financial success is the result of a number of We believe that an outright ban on smoking in public strong performances around the business, and places such as those seen in recent months in includes some particular highlights.
Ireland and Norway is a step too far.
Given the heightened interest in this topic, we have included From a brand perspective Davidoff has performed further information on smoking bans on page 26 of extremely well, with volumes up 15 per cent year this report.
We welcome the opportunity to find on year with growth in all our key regions.
We have practical, workable solutions as an alternative to also benefited from our strong portfolio in other regulation in this area.
tobacco products with our brands Golden Virginia, We believe the risks associated with smoking are well Drum and Rizla.
We were encouraged by the findings of We have grown our market shares in a number of Courts in both Ireland and Germany, where a number markets including in Western Europe, Africa, the of cases have been dismissed.
We will continue to Middle East and Asia.
Longer term investments such contest all such litigation against the Group.
as our relationship with strategic alliance partners, the Yuxi Hongta Group in China, are developing well, strengthening our platform for growth.
At the heart of everything With EU accession in May, we were able to address we do is a desire to create some of the over-capacity inherent in our manufacturing operations since the Reemtsma sustainable profitable acquisition.
We closed our cigarette factories in Slovenia, Slovakia and Hungary and our filter growth for our production centre in Hungary.
part of an ongoing review of our manufacturing sites, contributing to the reduction in costs and complexity and improving efficiencies within the enlarged Group.. 05 Our employees are focused on delivering results for the benefit of our shareholders.
It is their commitment that turns our strategy into reality.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OUTLOOK We strive for the highest possible standards of Looking ahead, we believe that the Group is well governance throughout the business and in all our placed to continue its record of success.
We broadly welcome initiatives record of which we are proud, driven by an such as those proposed by the UK Government overriding focus on delivering profitable growth for introducing regulations for the Operating and the benefit of our shareholders.
We believe our Financial Review.
strategy will continue to deliver excellent results.
Providing greater clarity and transparency and Our international coverage and balanced brand improving the quality of our reporting for the benefit portfolio provide us with continuing opportunities for of investors was one of the objectives of our first organic growth.
We remain committed to further Corporate Responsibility Review, published on our efficiencies, ensuring the business is organised website in December 2003.
The Board was pleased effectively in order to meet current and future market with the positive responses received from a wide demands.
We continue to look for potential range of stakeholders.
The Review sets out our acquisition opportunities that deliver value.
With approach in this area and our objectives for both this improving funding ratios, and should suitable year and next, against which we have made acquisitions not be immediately available, we are considerable progress.
An overview of our actively considering returning surplus funds to our achievements is included on pages 32 to 33 of this shareholders through a share buyback programme.
report, with more detailed information contained in Finally, and on behalf of the entire Board, we would the Corporate Responsibility Review for 2004, which like to thank our employees.
It is their commitment to will be published on our website in December.
delivering results for the benefit of our shareholders that turns our strategy into reality.
BOARD AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT CHANGES Richard Hannaford, Company Secretary, retired this year and, on behalf of the Board, we extend our heartfelt thanks for his guidance and wise counsel, and for the contribution he has made to Imperial Tobacco over the last 31 years.
He is succeeded by Derek Bonham Gareth Davis Matthew Phillips, formerly Senior Legal Counsel.
Chairman Chief Executive We also welcome David Thursfield, as a Non-Executive Director.
He brings significant international expertise from more than 25 years in the automotive industry.. 06 These spaces appear blank because we have removed the images that appear in the paper version of this publication.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.
We have grown our market shares in a number of markets in Western Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia.. 07.
08 INTERNATIONAL REACH OUR OPERATIONS SPAN A WIDE RANGE OF MARKETS across Western, Central and Eastern Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Australasia with our products sold in over 130 countries.
This geographic diversity provides us with a strong platform for future growth.. 09 These spaces appear blank because we have removed the images that appear in the paper version of this publication.
10 These spaces appear blank because we have removed the images that appear in the paper version of this publication.
OUR MULTI-PRODUCT PORTFOLIO IS A KEY STRENGTH, with a comprehensive range of cigarettes and other tobacco products.
It ensures we provide consumers with choice, high quality and good value.. 11 another excellent year.
12 Operating and Financial Review In 2004 we have continued Operating and our successful track record of profit and earnings Financial Review growth, with good progress across all our regions, supported by continued delivery of cost savings.
Robert Dyrbus Finance Director Alison Cooper Director of Finance and Planning GROUP OPERATING PERFORMANCE Reported turnover excluding duty decreased by In 2004, adjusted operating profit before 5 per cent to 3,032 million, impacted by the amortisation and exceptional items grew by disposal of the Caritas and Tobaccomat wholesale 7 per cent to 1,218 million, the result of our focus businesses at the end of last year and adverse on profitable volume development combined with foreign exchange movements.
Adjusting for these further cost efficiencies from our operations and factors turnover was broadly flat year on year with support structures.
Reported operating profit after volume reductions offset by the improving profitability amortisation and exceptional items was broadly flat of our broad product portfolio.
This profit was achieved despite considerable volume pressures during the year, both related to GROUP OPERATING PERFORMANCE duty-driven market declines and to a number of operational changes around the business.
These 2004 2003 included the move to local manufacture in Nigeria, Turnover ex.
duty 3,032m 3,200m trade stock adjustments in Russia and the 1 Adjusted operating profit 1,218m 1,135m discontinuation of some distribution and manufacturing arrangements.
1 Adjusted operating margin 40.2% 35.5% Amortisation 204 m 203 m Exceptional items 129 m 51 m Reported operating profit 885m 881m 1 Before amortisation and exceptional items.. 13 Operating and Financial Review INTEREST The interest charge for the year has reduced to Regional Performance Analysis 204 million 2003: 237 million, mainly as a result of higher levels of floating rate debt and lower euro Our focus on profitability is evident in the excellent margin interest rates.
The all-in cost of debt for 2004 was development of the business with adjusted Group operating margins 5.6 per cent 2003: 6.1 per cent : excluding fees, the now over 40 per cent, driven by improvements across all our regions.
cost of core debt was 5.2 per cent 2003: 5.6 per cent.
Interest cover before amortisation and exceptional items was 6.0 times 2003: 4.8 times.
REGIONAL PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Adjusted Turnover operating 1 ex.
duty profit PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2004 2003 2004 2003 m m m m Group adjusted profit before tax increased by 13 per cent to 1,014 million.
Reported profit before UK 793 760 454 406 tax was 688 million 2003: 656 million.
Germany 590 645 237 228 Rest of Western Europe 634 652 329 307 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Reported profit before tax was impacted by Rest of the World 1,015 1,143 198 194 exceptional items: exceptional costs of 129 million Total 3,032 3,200 1,218 1,135 and profit on the sale of fixed assets of 7 million.
The exceptional cost mainly related to the closure of 1 Results before amortisation and exceptional items.
factories in Central Europe and a number of operational restructurings.
In addition, it includes the In the UK, turnover was up by 4 per cent to 793 million, with costs relating to the agreed renegotiation of the operating profit up by 12 per cent to 454 million.
This performance Formula One contract due to legislative constraints, reflects the excellent growth in our market share and a relatively effective during the second half of 2005.
The sale of stable duty-paid market.
Our profit also benefited from a reduced fixed assets includes the disposal of properties in the cost base and manufacturers price increases.
UK, Germany and The Ukraine, with total associated In Germany, it has been a challenging year but, while turnover cash proceeds of 55 million.
decreased to 590 million, our operating profit rose by 4 per cent to 237 million.
Successive duty increases have caused a sharp decline in cigarette market volumes over the past year, compounded by trade ACQUISITIONS stock adjustments.
Despite this, we have improved our profitability with In May, we acquired the business and assets of a a price increase in March, supported by cost efficiencies and growth in Canadian based tube company, the CTC Tube other tobacco products.
Company of Canada, for a non-material sum.
The In the Rest of Western Europe, our turnover fell by 3 per cent mainly results of the business have had a minimal impact on impacted by the cessation of third party distribution arrangements in the Groups performance this year.
Our operating profit increased year on year by 7 per cent, reflecting some strong domestic performances partly offset by The total amortisation charge for the year was reductions in the travel retail business.
Despite a number of duty- 204 million 2003: 203 million.
driven market pressures, our cigarette shares grew in a number of markets and our strength in the profitable other tobacco products segment underpinned our profit delivery.
TAXATION In the Rest of the World, reported results were adversely affected The tax charge for the year was 238 million, by the disposal of two wholesale businesses at the end of last year representing an effective tax rate of 26.9 per cent and exchange movements of 15 million.
Adjusting for these 2003: 27.1 per cent on profit before amortisation.
factors turnover increased by 2 per cent and operating profit by The tax rate on reported profit before tax was 12 per cent.
This reflects our focus on profitable volume 34.6 per cent.
The Group benefited from lower tax development and increasing investments in China and Turkey.
rates applied to certain overseas subsidiaries and we expect this benefit to continue.. 14 Successful Track Record 17% compound earnings and dividends per share growth EARNINGS AND DIVIDENDS CASH FLOW AND BUYBACKS Our operational performance, combined with Our strong record of cash generation continued in effective cash and tax management, has delivered a 2004 with operating cash flow of 1,241 million, 13 per cent increase in adjusted earnings per share ahead of our adjusted operating profit, benefiting to 101.6 pence 2003: 90.0 pence : basic earnings from 79 million improvement in working capital this per share were 61.4 pence 2003: 58.1 pence.
Operating cash flow after net capital have proposed a final dividend for the year of expenditure represented 98 per cent of adjusted 35.0 pence per share, such that the total dividend operating profit, adding to our conversion record for the year is 50.0 pence, an increase of 19 per averaging 86 per cent over the five years to cent.
This increase is ahead of the earnings growth September 2004. as we have rebuilt to our historical annual payout Gross capital expenditure was 103 million 2003: ratio of around 50 per cent of earnings.
82 million, reflecting a maintenance level of capital Our track record shows the consistency of our expenditure plus investment in our Turkish factory.
earnings and dividend growth, with compound We have a range of options for utilising our balance annual growth of 17 per cent since 2000. sheet strength which include another significant acquisition, bolt-on acquisitions and share buybacks.
While we continue to pursue value enhancing acquisitions in addition to investing in organic growth FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY we will, if necessary, initiate share buybacks to During the year we bought the remaining 9.99 per maintain an efficient capital structure to enhance cent minority interests in Reemtsma.
These minority returns to shareholders.
arrangements were such that we consolidated 100 per cent of Reemtsma from May 2002, with the remaining minority share already included in net debt as deferred consideration of 418 million.
As such INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING the effect of the buyout was to replace the STANDARDS IFRS guarantees that were in issue with bank borrowings.
The first year of implementation of IFRS for Imperial Apart from this buyout, there have been no other Tobacco will be the year ending September 2006. significant changes in our financing arrangements.
We set up an internal project in 2003 to prepare for At the year end, net debt was 3.6 billion 2003: the transition, which has made significant progress in 4.1 billion of which 18.9 per cent was denominated the last year, details of which are provided on pages in sterling, 80.1 per cent in euros and 1.0 per cent in 60 and 61.
Although there is still some uncertainty as other currencies.
Interest rate derivatives have been to the final Standards that will be applicable on used to fix 60.2 per cent of gross debt 2003: transition, we believe we are well placed to comply 76.7 per cent at the year end.
Our track record shows the consistency of our earnings and dividend growth with compound annual growth of 17 per cent since 2000.. 15 Operating and Financial Review UNITED KINGDOM WE DELIVERED AN EXCELLENT PERFORMANCE WITH OUR MARKET SHARE GROWING IN BOTH THE CIGARETTE AND ROLL YOUR OWN TOBACCO SECTORS TO 44.6 PER CENT AND 65.6 PER CENT RESPECTIVELY, REINFORCING OUR LEADERSHIP POSITION.
This space appears blank because we have removed the image that appears in the paper version of this publication.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.. 16 UK Overview 2004 Market Dynamics: Mature market with one of the highest tobacco taxes in MARKET PROFITABILITY the EU and growing ultra low price cigarette and other Operating profit in the year was up by 12 per cent to 454 million tobacco products sectors.
2003: 406 million, reflecting our growing market shares, relatively stable duty paid cigarette volumes, the benefits of manufacturers Total Market Size: price increases and cost efficiencies.
53 billion cigarettes 2003: 54 billion cigarettes MARKET DYNAMICS 2,900 tonnes of roll your own tobacco It is encouraging that the market remained relatively stable this year 2003: 2,800 tonnes and we estimate a total market size of 53 billion cigarettes 2003: 54 billion.
As consumers have continued to search for greater Our Position: value, the highly competitive ultra low price cigarette sector has Cigarettes: No 1 with 44.6 per cent market share grown, now accounting for 37 per cent of the total UK cigarette 2003: 44.0 per cent market.
In addition, we estimate the roll your own tobacco market was up to 2,900 tonnes 2003: 2,800 tonnes.
Roll your own tobacco: No 1 with 65.6 per cent market share 2003: 64.4 per cent OUR PERFORMANCE In the first full year of the advertising restrictions in the UK, our Our Financial Performance: market shares benefited from the brand equity inherent in our Turnover excluding duty: 793 million portfolio.
The number one and number two cigarette brands, 2003: 760 million Lambert & Butler and Richmond, performed well with market shares of 16.2 per cent and 13.2 per cent respectively 2003: 16.3 per cent Operating profit: 454 million 2003: 406 million and 11.5 per cent.
In addition, we delivered a robust performance in a declining premium segment with Regal and Embassy.
Our Popular Brands: Lambert & Butler, Richmond, Superkings, Embassy, Regal, Golden Virginia, Drum, Rizla.
We have further extended our market leadership within other tobacco products and rolling papers with a strong performance in roll your Lambert & Butler is the largest fast moving own tobacco from Golden Virginia, and the growth of the premium consumer goods brand in the UK.
It has rolling paper Rizla Silver following a successful launch last October.
been the UKs best selling cigarette for six Our trade marketing capabilities continue to improve brand consecutive years.
availability and point of sale visibility, despite reduced opportunities Richmond, launched in 1999, retains its to communicate with our consumers.
number 2 position in the cigarette sector.
Our exceptional sales force has continued to support our Golden Virginia reached 50.0 per cent market customers, especially in helping them to manage the impacts of share of the roll your own tobacco market in 2004. new regulation.
We were proud to have this recognised when, for the second consecutive year, we were awarded Supplier of the Year by retailers from the convenience sector.
OUTLOOK The UK continues to be the largest profit centre for the Group.
In the context of a stable market and continuing downtrading, our strong brand equity across the product portfolio leaves us well placed for improving levels of profit delivery.. 17 Operating and Financial Review GERMANY WE REMAINED FOCUSED ON THE PROFITABLE DEVELOPMENT OF THE BUSINESS IN THIS MARKET.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.. 18 Germany Overview 2004 Market Dynamics: A year of change in Germany, the largest tobacco MARKET PROFITABILITY market in Western Europe: Successive tax increases over the past few years have resulted in a decline in the total market, including other tobacco products.
In Three duty increases since January 2002 have 2004, we estimate that the market was down by 7 per cent to 150 increased the tax on a pack of cigarettes by on billion cigarette equivalents 2003: 162 billion.
Within this, the total average 71 euro cents.
cigarette market was down to 119 billion cigarettes, with other tobacco products up by 29 per cent to 31 billion cigarette Consumers are downtrading to value cigarettes equivalents 2003: 24 billion cigarette equivalents.
and other tobacco products, including singles.
In the context of these challenging market conditions, operating Total Market Size: profit increased to 237 million 2003: 228 million.
This was due to continued growth in other tobacco products, together with 119 billion cigarettes 2003: 138 billion cigarettes margin improvements stemming from a manufacturers price 31 billion cigarette equivalents of other tobacco increase and cost savings.
We have been quick to respond to the products 2003: 24 billion cigarette equivalents significant developments in Germany, realigning our business to meet market conditions.
16.8 per cent of the cigarette market is private label cigarettes MARKET DYNAMICS Our Position: Duty increases have widened the price differentials with nearby countries encouraging further cross-border trade.
This has also 1 Number 2 in the total tobacco market driven consumer downtrading, both within cigarette and to other 1 tobacco products.
Make your own products, including the Cigarettes : No 2 with 18.9 per cent market profitable singles segment, have experienced strong growth, with share 2003: 19.6 per cent singles more than doubling in volume although in an increasingly Branded other tobacco products: No 1 with competitive environment.
28.0 per cent market share 2003: 31.2 per cent OUR PERFORMANCE Our Financial Performance: Our overall branded share of the total market including other Turnover excluding duty: 590 million tobacco products was 20.8 per cent 2003: 21.4 per cent.
2003: 645 million Reflecting the market dynamics, our overall cigarette share decreased slightly to 18.9 per cent 2003: 19.6 per cent.
Despite a Operating profit: 237 million 2003: 228 million 32 per cent increase in our singles volumes to 5.0 billion 2003: 3.8 billion our overall market share of other tobacco products declined Our Popular Brands: West, Davidoff, JPS, Cabinet, to 28.0 per cent 2003: 31.2 per cent due to increased competition.
Peter Stuyvesant, R1, Drum, Van Nelle.
In April, we implemented a pricing strategy that assisted in creating a Imperial Tobaccos strength in value cigarettes and new price segment in Germany through the national launch of JPS the other tobacco products sector puts the Group Red and subsequently JPS Silver and JPS Blue.
Market shares of the in a strong position given the downtrading trend.
JPS brand family have shown encouraging trends, capturing 2 per cent of the total tobacco market in September.
This supported the We have assisted in creating a new price growth of our cigarette share to 19.6 per cent by the end of the year.
segment in April through the national launch of the JPS brand family.
Market share of the West brand franchise, including both cigarettes and other tobacco products, was broadly held at just under 11 per We are market leader in the singles segment cent.
In the premium segment, we have been encouraged by the which experienced significant growth in 2004, performance of Davidoff, which held its market share at 1.1 per cent.
more than doubling year on year.
West is the second largest cigarette brand in OUTLOOK Germany.
The market remains challenging with further tax increases planned for 1 excludes brands distributed for third parties December 2004 and September 2005.
We are pleased with the successful steps we have taken to improve our profitability and we will build on these, further capitalising on our broad cigarette portfolio together with a further price increase in December.
Our market leadership in the growing other tobacco products category and our ability to remain flexible and adaptable to changing market conditions, should support the profitable development of the German market.. 19 Operating and Financial Review REST OF WESTERN EUROPE WE DELIVERED A STRONG PERFORMANCE THROUGHOUT THE REST OF WESTERN EUROPE REGION, WITH INCREASED CIGARETTE SHARES IN MANY MARKETS.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.. 20 Rest of Western Europe Overview Our Key Markets include: Ireland, France, Italy, Spain, The Netherlands, REGIONAL PROFITABILITY Belgium, Greece, Luxembourg.
Operating profit was up to 329 million 2003: 307 million reflecting this positive cigarette performance and our strength in Region: other tobacco products together with margin improvements.
Mature markets with growth in the other tobacco products and low price cigarette market REGIONAL DYNAMICS segments.
Successive tax increases across the region, particularly in France, have led to an overall decrease in cigarette volumes.
We have We are market leaders in roll your own tobacco in benefited as prices have risen and consumers have migrated to many markets in this region including France, other tobacco products and downtraded within the cigarette Greece, Ireland, Italy, Spain and The Netherlands.
Duty increases have also provided opportunities for manufacturers price increases.
Our Financial Performance: Turnover excluding duty: 634 million OUR PERFORMANCE 2003: 652 million The Imperial Tobacco business in this region is well balanced, with Operating Profit: 329 million relatively modest but growing cigarette market shares and a strong other tobacco products presence.
2003: 307 million In France, roll your own tobacco volumes increased by 15 per Our Popular Brands: Davidoff, West, Route 66, Bastos, cent, with Interval, the market leader, up to 14.9 per cent market JPS, Interval, Van Nelle, Drum, Rizla, Golden Virginia share 2003: 13.5 per cent.
In cigarette, despite overall market We have seen encouraging brand development volume declines, we have broadly held market share at 3.5 per cent 2003: 3.4 per cent, and have extended the JPS brand in this region in 2004. franchise with the introduction of a make your own product.
Since we repositioned West at a favourable price point in The Davidoff up by 6 per cent.
Netherlands in February, market share has doubled.
This, combined with the performance of Davidoff, has brought our Rizla up by 6 per cent.
cigarette share to 3.3 per cent 2003: 2.7 per cent.
Our roll your own tobacco market share has decreased to 54.3 per cent 2003: 57.5 per cent, impacted by the growth in the value end of the roll your own tobacco market.
In Ireland, our cigarette share has been holding up well at 24.8 per cent 2003: 24.9 per cent, excluding brands distributed for third parties.
Growth in Superkings has supported a stable JP Blue brand family, despite a decline in overall market volumes mainly as a result of successive substantial duty increases.
In Southern Europe, our cigarette market share in Spain was up to 4.5 per cent 2003: 4.2 per cent and Davidoff has performed well in both Italy and Greece.
We have also grown roll your own tobacco volumes by 17 per cent in these markets, specifically with Golden Virginia.
Our strong infrastructure has ensured brand availability for consumers travelling within the European Union.
We have delivered a positive performance in our Southern Europe travel retail business, including Malta and Cyprus since their accession to the European Union.
Given recent tax increases in France, we have seen consumers move away from purchasing tobacco products on cross-channel ferries and Eurotunnel.
OUTLOOK We remain confident of our continued organic growth potential in the Rest of Western Europe.
Our balanced brand portfolio provides opportunities both in cigarette and other tobacco products, supported by our ongoing investment in trade marketing.. 21 Operating and Financial Review REST OF THE WORLD THIS GEOGRAPHICALLY DIVERSE REGION ACCOUNTS FOR OVER HALF OF TOTAL GROUP VOLUMES.
This is because we currently do not feature tobacco product brand imagery on our web site.. 22 Rest of the World Overview Our Key Markets include: Taiwan, Australia, Ivory Coast, Poland, REGIONAL PROFITABILITY The Ukraine, Russia, Duty Free.
Improving profitability remained a focus, supporting growth in regional operating profit to 198 million 2003: 194 million.
This Our Development Markets include: was due to margin improvements and good performances in markets within Asia, Australasia, Africa, the Middle East and our China, Turkey, Middle East region.
The results in this region were also impacted by volume pressures in parts of Central and Eastern Europe and Our Financial Performance: adverse foreign exchange movements.
Turnover excluding duty: 1,015 million 2003: 1,143 million REGIONAL DYNAMICS This was impacted by: The broad spread of markets across this region offers good potential for both organic growth and improved profitability, the disposal of the Caritas and Tobaccomat particularly in markets where we have strong positions such as wholesale businesses Taiwan, The Ukraine, Australia, Poland, Russia and in Duty Free.
Our investments are focused on sustainable growth opportunities foreign exchange losses such as China and Turkey, enhancing our potential.
Davidoff has Operating Profit: 198 million grown significantly in the past year up by 22 per cent within this 2003: 194 million region, demonstrating its broad international appeal.
Our Popular Brands: Davidoff, West, Route 66, OUR PERFORMANCE Excellence, Boss, Maxim, Horizon In Asia, cigarette market share in Taiwan remains at over 11 per The region offers considerable opportunities for cent with excellent progress from Boss, complemented by our organic growth, while its diversity helps manage core Davidoff market share.
In China, we have undertaken a number of initiatives with the Yuxi Hongta Group including further performance risk.
co-operation to develop the West brand in the key cities of Davidoff grew by 22 per cent in this region.
In Vietnam, Bastos market share was up to 8.9 per cent 2003: 8.6 per cent in a growing market, and the redevelopment of the factory in Laos will improve our quality and provides opportunities to increase volumes in this market.
Our cigarette share was held in Australia at just under 18 per cent, mainly due to Superkings, Peter Stuyvesant and Horizon.
Market In our Duty Free business, Asian markets have rebounded share in roll your own tobacco was up at 64.1 per cent 2003: 62.4 strongly following the impact of SARS last year.
We saw better per cent, driven by Champion.
than expected volumes in accession states ahead of European Union enlargement and encouraging growth in duty free in Turkey Positive growth trends in Africa and the Middle East have and the Middle East led by Davidoff.
continued with some further recovery in the Ivory Coast in 2004.
Davidoff has led volume developments in the Middle East and The acquisition of the business and assets of the CTC Tube further brand investment is opening up additional markets.
Company of Canada added to our position as world leader in the rolling papers and tubes market.
In Central and Eastern Europe, we have been managing European Union accession and focusing on profitable sales volume, whilst restructuring the business to match current market conditions.
OUTLOOK By its nature, this region is more volatile than others in which we In Poland, our cigarette share was 17.3 per cent 2003: 19.3 per operate but the balance of our business leaves us well positioned.
cent, adversely impacted by our decision not to absorb recent tax We continue to focus on profitable volume growth, supported by increases.
Against a background of tax-driven market size selective investments.
This region offers attractive growth reductions, we remain focused on profitability in Poland and in opportunities both in terms of volume and profit.
other Central European markets including Slovenia, Slovakia and Hungary.
A robust volume and share performance in the higher margin business of the Czech Republic has been encouraging as has our growth in the make your own sector in Hungary.
In Russia, the performance of our cigarette brands in the premium categories increased overall market share to 5.2 per cent 2003: 4.9 per cent, but overall volumes were down due to trade stock adjustments and the performance of certain brands in the low price category.
We were pleased with volume growth from Boss White, Davidoff and R1 in The Ukraine, despite a reduction in some of our lower margin brands.. 23 Operating and Financial Review COST & CAPITAL MANAGEMENT MANUFACTURING SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT In 2004, we have continued to deliver considerable improvements During the year we have improved supply chain processes, with across our manufacturing base.
With a flexible approach, we have reductions in the levels of both finished product and leaf stock.
effectively managed the impact of volume reductions in certain In the area of finished products we have focused attention on the markets and have also made progress in addressing the current optimisation of our distribution network, allowing us to reduce levels of over-capacity within the enlarged European Union.
Productivity was up by 6 per cent in 2004, a strong performance given the volume reductions, and reached 11 per cent in the OUTLOOK second half including the effect of the factory closures.
Progress As ever, we strive for continual improvements across all our was made with unit cost reductions across all our major product manufacturing operations by maintaining our focus on costs, groups, most notably in other tobacco products which showed a improving productivity, and reducing over-capacity within the reduction of 7 per cent on 2003.
A major initiative of the year was the rationalisation of our manufacturing base within Europe, with the closure of our cigarette operations in Slovakia, Slovenia and Hungary and our filter production centre in Hungary.
This was undertaken without any adverse impact on our operations.
Surplus machinery from these Manufacturing Overview sites is being transferred and will deliver further improvements in efficiency and quality around the Group.
33 Manufacturing Sites: Progress was also made in standardising our products, processes and systems.
Stockkeeping units reduced by 14 per cent and a 21 cigarette factories Group-wide systematic approach for evaluating the introduction of 7 other tobacco products factories new brands and line extensions has been implemented.
Blends were reduced by 14 per cent, complemented by continuing 5 papers and tubes factories reductions in the number of ingredients used.
The lead factory structure introduced in Europe during the year Productivity improved by 6 per cent by the has not only reduced duplication of activities but also extended end of the year.
best practice manufacturing skills and experiences around the Group.
In support of our global standards in quality and health and Stockkeeping units reduced by 14 per cent safety, ISO accreditation was achieved across 9 additional factories in 2004. in the year.
We continued to invest in a number of manufacturing locations including those in the UK, Germany and Laos.
The construction of our Turkish factory is progressing well with work due to be completed in January.. 24 In 2004 we have continued to deliver considerable improvements across our manufacturing base.
These spaces appear blank because we have removed the images that appear in the paper version of this publication.
We are focused on low cost, high quality production, striving for continual improvements across all our manufacturing operations.. 25 Operating and Financial Review OPERATING ENVIRONMENT DURING THE YEAR WE HAVE SOUGHT CONSTRUCTIVE DIALOGUE WITH REGULATORY BODIES AND GOVERNMENTS AT BOTH NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL LEVELS TO FIND PRACTICAL, WORKABLE SOLUTIONS TO THE REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES The debate on whether to ban smoking in public places has Smoking Bans intensified in many countries.
We do not believe that scientific studies show tobacco smoke to be a cause of disease in nonWhat is our view?
In our opinion, the population studies which have led to We do not think bans are necessary and claims of any health risk are subject to methodological flaws, and at continue to support practical, workable most indicate a very small risk.
As a result we believe that bans are solutions that accommodate both smokers disproportionate.
We believe this is the We believe that the needs of both smokers and non-smokers can be most effective way forward.
accommodated through common sense and courtesy, and by We do not believe that scientific studies introducing practical solutions such as well-ventilated smoking and nonshow tobacco smoke to be a cause of smoking areas in offices, restaurants and other public places.
believe that voluntary measures remain the most effective way forward.
For example, this approach in the UK has led to some 90 per cent of workplaces and two thirds of pubs introducing smoking policies.
In Ireland, a ban on smoking in the workplace took effect on 29 Although there are many regulatory requirements that we must March 2004.
As reported in our September trading statement, meet by law, we have been proactive in voluntarily adopting while volumes in Ireland have declined it is too early to assess the standards.
For example we publish information on the ingredients impact of the smoking ban, due to the high excise increases in used in our cigarettes on our website and we have implemented December 2003.
A full years experience of the ban will be required an International Standard for the Marketing of Tobacco Products, in order to give an accurate assessment.
highlighting our existing high standards for self-regulation of advertising and marketing practises.
FRAMEWORK CONVENTION FOR TOBACCO CONTROL Introduced in May 2003, the World Health Organisations WHO EUROPEAN UNION TOBACCO PRODUCT DIRECTIVE EUTPD Framework Convention on Tobacco Control is the first global With the enlargement of the European Union in May, the European tobacco treaty that requires parties to regulate a number of areas Union Directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco including tobacco advertising, labelling, product testing and products EUTPD has been transposed into national regulations for submission of ingredient information as well as product traceability the extended European Union, with the exception of Estonia where and liability.
The treaty also addresses tobacco taxation and calls for we await final legislation.
Our previous experience of managing these strengthened legislation to clamp down on tobacco smuggling.
requirements has ensured a smooth implementation.
The process of ratification of the Convention continues, and in The EUTPD requirement to submit ingredient information to September, the WHO issued a statement saying it was optimistic national governments is now implemented in all Member States.
that the required 40 ratifications would be achieved by the end of The Dutch Government rejected the format in which the 2004. ingredients of our Dutch tobacco products were submitted, requiring the submission of complete product formulae.
While we We agree with the need for strong measures to tackle illegal trade are willing to provide details of ingredients, we are not prepared to and to prevent youth smoking, but we believe many areas covered submit our trade secrets if adequate provisions are not in place to by the Convention are more appropriately left to national authorities.. 26 safeguard disclosure to counterfeiters or competitors.
As a result, TAXATION the tobacco industry began legal proceedings in September 2003.
A number of significant tax increases took place during the year An initial oral hearing is due in early 2005.
The Belgian Government across Western Europe, most notably in Germany and France and requires a similar level of disclosure and is awaiting the outcome of in EU accession countries.
We remain concerned that continued these proceedings in The Netherlands.
tax increases will fuel levels of both illegal cross-border trade and counterfeiting.
As a result of the Directive, larger health warnings on the front and We are totally opposed to smuggling and are committed to back of packs are now in place across the European Union.
working with governments and excise authorities to tackle Furthermore, product descriptors such as light or mild have been smuggling and counterfeiting activities.
A number of new European Union Member States have been granted transition periods for some of the EUTPD provisions.
In the UK, following the signing of our successful Memorandum of The European Union Council Recommendation which encourages Understanding with HM Customs and Excise last year, seizures of action on advertising, public smoking and youth smoking genuine Imperial Tobacco cigarettes have continued to fall, down by prevention was adopted in late 2002 to supplement the EUTPD.
75 per cent in the year to June 2004.
This successful approach has Whilst not legally binding, it does set out the approach expected been replicated elsewhere as four further co-operation agreements from Member States, a number of which have started implementing were signed with other European customs authorities.
We are some of the measures.
During the year, the Portuguese and French committed to developing further similar agreements elsewhere.
governments have banned packs containing less than 19 and 20 cigarettes respectively.
The German Parliament approved a ban on TOBACCO RELATED LITIGATION packs with fewer than 17 cigarettes.
In Scotland, we are awaiting judgment in the case of McTear v. Imperial Tobacco Limited.
The trial started on 7 October 2003 and PICTORIAL HEALTH WARNINGS ended on 20 February 2004.
Eleven other cases, in which individual Following the 2003 European Union Decision regarding the use of claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking-related health pictorial health warnings, the European Commission published a effects, are inactive.
provisional picture library in October 2004.
The use of pictorial In Germany, an individual claim against Imperial Tobacco was health warnings is a Recommendation only and will not be rejected on 14 November 2003 as being without merit.
The mandatory for European Union Member States.
claimants subsequent appeal was dismissed on 14 July 2004.
In June, the Australian Government decided to introduce pictorial In the Republic of Ireland, the number of claims against Imperial health warnings occupying 30 per cent of the front and 90 per Tobacco has fallen from 307 in 1997, to 29: 278 cases have been cent of the back of cigarette packs from 2006.
The same dismissed, discontinued or are not proceeding.
No case has gone regulations will require the removal of tar, nicotine and CO yield beyond service of a statement of claim and notice of particulars, statements from packs, to be replaced by relevant information on and defences have not been served in any case.
the toxic hazards of tobacco smoke.
In The Netherlands, Imperial Tobacco and other tobacco We do not believe that pictorial health warnings are necessary, but companies received claim letters on behalf of 44 individuals, will comply with all legislation that requires our products to display although 15 of those individuals have now withdrawn.
We are not aware of any evidence to suggest that pictorial has been taken from a majority of the claimants at preliminary health warnings per se have had an impact on consumers hearings but no actual proceedings have been commenced smoking habits in countries where these have already been against Imperial Tobacco or any other tobacco company.
introduced, such as Canada and Brazil.
In Poland, an individual claimant has served proceedings on Imperial Tobacco.
There have been several preliminary hearings ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS with further hearings anticipated during 2005.
In March 2004 the Irish Government passed the Public Health Tobacco Act, which bans product display and in-store advertising In Australia, an individual claimant has served proceedings on while also conferring major search and seize powers on the seven tobacco companies including Imperial Tobacco.
A statement Office of Tobacco Control.
The Act is currently being challenged of claim has been served.
by the industry in the courts and we expect the case to be heard in early 2005.
To date, no judgment has been entered against Imperial Tobacco and no action has been settled in favour of a claimant in any In the UK, a joint action was undertaken by a group of tobacco tobacco-related litigation involving Imperial Tobacco or any of its companies including Imperial Tobacco against the planned subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its lawyers that introduction of regulations that restrict advertising at point of sale.
it has meritorious defences to the legal proceedings in which The judgment was delivered on 5 November 2004 and the individuals are seeking damages for alleged smoking-related health regulations were upheld.
Subject to any appeal, the regulations are effects and to threatened actions of a similar nature.
We will due to come into force on 21 December 2004. continue to contest all speculative litigation against the Group.. 27 Corporate Responsibilities Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14.
28 Corporate Responsibilities We have long recognised that transparency, dealing fairly with stakeholders, exercising good stewardship and behaving responsibly are all consistent with building long term value for our shareholders.
FRANK ROGERSON BSC, PHD, AGED 51 3.
IAIN NAPIER ACMA, AGED 55 Chairman and a Member of the Corporate Affairs Director Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee and a Member of the Appointed to the Board in June 2003, having Audit Committee Appointed Non-Executive Chairman on our joined Imperial Tobacco in 1977, he has held Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2000.
London Stock Exchange Listing in 1996.
He a number of senior management positions He is currently Group Chief Executive of is currently Non-Executive Chairman of including Managing Director of Cigar and Roll Taylor Woodrow plc.
As a former main board CamAxys Group plc and Songbird Estates Your Own Tobacco.
Appointed Business Director of Bass PLC, he was Chief plc and a Non-Executive Director of TXU Development Director in 2000, he was Executive of Bass Leisure and then Chief Corp USA.
He has a wide range of instrumental in negotiations for the Executive of Bass Brewers and Bass managerial and financial experience gained acquisition of Reemtsma.
Following the sale of as a former Executive Chairman of The the Bass beer business in 2000, he became Energy Group PLC, Non-Executive Chairman 5.
BRUCE DAVIDSON B COM, AGED 48 Vice President UK and Ireland for Interbrew of Cadbury Schweppes plc and Marconi plc Sales & Marketing Director SA until his resignation in August 2001.
He is and Deputy Chairman of Hanson PLC, Appointed to the Board in October 2003, he a Non-Executive Director of BOC Group plc.
having previously held a number of senior has been part of the senior management management and financial positions.
team transforming the scale and reach of the 6.
PIERRE JUNGELS CBE HON ING GEOL, PHD, Groups international business since joining 4.
ANTHONY ALEXANDER FCA, AGED 66 C ENG, FELLOW EL, AGED 60 Imperial Tobacco in 1998.
Prior to joining Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Imperial Tobacco he held a number of senior Remuneration Committee and the Audit a Member of the Audit Committee management positions with British American Committee.
Appointed Vice Chairman on demerger and Tobacco and Inchcape plc, including as Appointed to the Board in August 2002.
He acts as senior independent Non-Executive Chief Executive of Timberland Asia Pacific.
has held numerous senior international Director.
He also serves as a Non-Executive positions within the oil industry with Shell Director of Misys plc and Platinum 8.
SIMON DUFFY MA, MBA, AGED 54 International, Petrofina SA and British Gas Investment Trust plc.
He is a former Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the PLC.
He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in Executive Director of Hanson PLC and as Audit Committee 1996, leading the business to substantial Chief Operating Officer he had responsibility geographic and financial growth until his for all their UK operating companies.
Appointed to the Board in 1996 as a Nonretirement in November 2001.
He is Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Chairman of Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping Committee.
Currently Chief Executive Officer of 7.
GARETH DAVIS BA, AGED 54 plc and a Non-Executive Director of ntl Inc, he was formerly Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Woodside Petroleum Ltd and Offshore of End2End Holdings Limited and of World Appointed Chief Executive in 1996 and led Logistics Inc. Online International BV and Chief Financial the successful demerger of the Company Officer of Orange SA and of EMI Group plc, from Hanson PLC and its listings on the where he was also Deputy Chairman.
London and New York Stock Exchanges.
Previously Operations Director of United With wide experience across all aspects of COMPANY SECRETARY Distillers, he is a Non-Executive Director of Imperial Tobaccos business gained from GWR Group plc.
RICHARD HANNAFORD BSC, FCA, over 30 years with the Company, he has AGED 57 retired 30 09 04 played a key role in the development of both 11.
DAVID THURSFIELD, AGED 58 Joined Imperial Tobacco in 1973.
Appointed general strategy and the ongoing expansion Non-Executive Director and Member of the Company Secretary in 1988 and Company programme.
In 2003 he was appointed as a Remuneration Committee Secretary of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC in Non-Executive Director of Wolseley plc.
Prior to this he held a number of Appointed a Non-Executive Director in management posts in finance and internal November 2003.
ROBERT DYRBUS BSC, FCA, AGED 51 audit functions.
Company in 1979, from British Leyland, and Finance Director was Executive Vice President, Ford Motor Appointed Finance Director of Imperial Company and President, International 12.
MATTHEW PHILLIPS, LLB, AGED 34 Tobacco Limited in 1989 and was one of the Operations and Global Purchasing responsible from 01 10 04 three-man Hanson team involved in the for the Premier Automotive Group, Mazda Appointed Company Secretary in October strategic reorganisation of the Group.
He Motor Company, Ford of Europe, Ford Asia 2004, he joined Imperial Tobaccos legal became Finance Director of the Group on Pacific operations and Global Purchasing department in 2000 having previously demerger in 1996 and has since played an organisations until his retirement in May 2004. worked for the law firms Linklaters and integral part in shaping the strategic direction He remains a consultant to the Company.
He was closely involved in of the Group.
Previously he was financial negotiations for Imperial Tobaccos controller with Hanson PLC, responsible for acquisitions of Tobaccor and Reemtsma.
SIPKO HUISMANS BA, AGED 63 Imperial Tobacco, Ever Ready and Allders.
Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Remuneration Committee 13.
DAVID CRESSWELL C ENG, MIEE, AGED 59 Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1996.
Manufacturing Director He joined Courtaulds in Southern Africa in Joined Imperial Tobacco in 1961 and was 1961 and moved to the UK in 1968.
He appointed to the Board in June 2003.
An became a Director of Courtaulds in 1984 and electrical engineer by background, he has was responsible for the Chemical and undertaken a number of senior management Industrial business from 1986 until the roles and has previously held the position of demerger of Courtaulds Textiles in 1990, Managing Director for each of Imperial when he became Managing Director.
He was Tobaccos major operating divisions namely appointed Chief Executive of Courtaulds from Cigarette, Rolling Paper and Roll Your Own 1991 until his retirement in 1996.
Tobacco.. 29 Corporate Responsibilities Chief Executives Committee Robert Dyrbus Alison Cooper Gareth Davis Finance Director Director of Finance and Planning Chief Executive Richard Hannaford Matthew Phillips Frank Rogerson Company Secretary retired 30 09 04 Company Secretary from 01 10 04 Corporate Affairs Director Bruce Davidson David Cresswell Kathryn Brown Sales and Marketing Director Manufacturing Director Group Human Resources Director.
30 CHIEF EXECUTIVES COMMITTEE Benefit packages are competitive and in 2004 key The Chief Executives Committee is the senior representative roles were benchmarked against management steering group for the Company.
comparator companies, to ensure remuneration is Comprised of the Chief Executive and the Executive correctly positioned.
Employees are also invited to Directors biographies on page 29, the Director of share in the wealth created by the Group by Finance and Planning and the Group Human participating in sharesave schemes.
Operating in 30 Resources Director biographies below, the countries with 43 per cent of eligible employees Committee is responsible for implementing Group participating, the scheme was commended by strategy and monitoring the detailed performance of Proshare for Best International Expansion and by the all aspects of the business.
Global Equity Organisation for Best Plan Effectiveness.
We aim to promote good working relations with ALISON COOPER, BSC, ACA AGED 38, employees and their representatives through trade Director of Finance and Planning unions, works councils and other organisations and encourage efficient employee communications.
Alison joined the Group in 1999 from Membership of our European Employee Forum was , having worked with extended during the year to include European Union Imperial Tobacco over a number of years from both accession countries.
A total of 8,400 employees are an audit and acquisition perspective.
She is now represented through this consultation body.
responsible for financial planning and development including the financial evaluation of acquisitions as Where changes impact on employment in a particular well as day-to-day financial management and control location we ensure that affected employees are of the Group, taxation and investor relations.
For example, in May, our cigarette factories in Slovenia, Slovakia and Hungary were closed.
In line with normal company KATHRYN BROWN, AGED 49, practice, consultation took place with local works Group Human Resources Director councils and trades unions.
We were pleased with Kathryn joined Imperial in 2002 from Somerfield PLC, the constructive engagement that took place to agree where she was a member of the PLC Board.
She has mutually acceptable arrangements.
Outplacement also held a number of senior operational consulting support was offered in every location.
roles in change management in the FMCG sector.
She is responsible for all aspects of human resource The health and safety of all our employees is a high management across the Imperial Tobacco Group.
priority, regardless of location, and our progress on the key issues will be reported in our 2004 Corporate Responsibility Review.
EMPLOYEES During the year, we have continued to further develop our employment practices.
Our ability to encourage and reward A number of initiatives are in place to support the training and development of employees at all levels good performance, and support the and to support the effective succession planning for training and development of all our a number of key management roles.
High potential managers are sponsored at a Group level with employees is fundamental to our appropriate development plans supporting their continuing success.
progression.. 31 Corporate Responsibilities The 2003 Corporate Responsibility Review is our most comprehensive explanation to date of Imperials approach, progress and policies.
The Review reaffirms the Companys commitment to continuous progress in its role as a responsible corporate citizen Frank Rogerson, Corporate Affairs Director OUR APPROACH In regard to human rights, we now have 5 social Our objective is to build a sustainable and profitable auditors trained to SA8000 standards, who have business while behaving as a good corporate citizen evaluated the priority areas of our operations as part in all of our activities.
The rapid international of a four year rolling programme.
Together with the expansion of the Group in recent years has extended International Labour Organisation, we are active the challenges that we have needed to address.
board members of the Elimination of Child Labour in Tobacco Foundation.
Our first Corporate Responsibility Review was published on our website www.
com Product stewardship and health remain a priority for in December 2003.
This was our first formal Review the Group, given the controversial nature of our and set out both our approach and the processes by products.
Our research and development which we ensure that responsible corporate behaviour programmes are undertaken to improve our is embedded across all of our business activities.
As knowledge of tobacco, smoking and the diseases well as detailing our progress and our plans for the associated with smoking.
We use this knowledge to future, the Review highlighted the areas requiring research potentially reduced exposure products that further attention.
Our 2004 Review to be published in might be regarded by government authorities as December will outline the improvements we have having potentially reduced risk.
We intend to be an made in the year, as well as the development of our active and effective participant in developments in key performance indicators and our stakeholder this area.
We would welcome further discussions engagement programme.
between government authorities and industry experts to define objective criteria and predictive tests by We are pleased by the positive and constructive which these products can be judged.
OUR ACHIEVEMENTS During the year, we conducted a review of Group policies which were comprehensively updated and reissued to management teams around the business.
We supported our communication activities with a number of regional training programmes focusing on compliance with our rigorous supply policy.
2004 was the second year of our Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production programme and we are pleased with the improvements in our supplier scores.
Experienced external consultants have now reviewed all low-performing suppliers to help them develop improvement plans.
This approach has also been extended across our major non-tobacco suppliers, who have reported generally high standards of risk management.. 32 Environmental Management Overview Throughout our operations, we identify opportunities to minimise the environmental impact of our activities and a further 9 factories gained ISO14001 certification during the year.
Our ranking in the Business in the Environment BiE index of environmental management was 79 per cent.
We are pleased to have maintained this score in light of the transforming Reemtsma acquisition.
This is due to the rapid integration of our management and performance measures.
We are reducing our carbon dioxide emissions in a number of different ways.
For example: Over 95 per cent of the electricity bought in the UK was generated from renewable energy sources.
More fuel-efficient vehicles have been selected in revised fleet management contracts.
Our co-operation with the UK Carbon Trust shows how we work with governments to demonstrate self-regulation and improve our performance.
Our independent energy audits help our manufacturing teams to evaluate potential energy saving opportunities.
In Madagascar, we continue to progress plans for our operations to become self-sufficient in wood.
This involves planting trees and introducing more fuel-efficient curing barns.
Climate Change During the year, our climate change strategy has been evaluated as part of the Carbon Disclosure Project and ranked among the top 50 climate change leaders from a crosssection of the worlds multinational businesses.
We remain committed to our energy reduction target of 10 per cent per unit of production by 2010.
SOCIAL AND COMMUNITY INVESTMENT We normally donate around 0.1 per cent of our profits We aim to assist the communities worldwide in after tax and our total charitable donations in 2004 which we operate internationally and to support our were 920,000.
The Board has decided to raise this employees work in their communities.
commitment incrementally over the next three years to 0.2 per cent of the pre-tax profits of the previous year.
Many communities view tobacco growing as a We often match the money raised by employees for means of sustaining their economy and we are active special projects.
This approach allows us to in a number of countries in full-scale or early stage contribute to causes our employees favour.
tree planting activities, well drilling, education and health projects.. 33 Corporate Responsibilities Shareholder Information REGISTERED OFFICE PO Box 244, Upton Road, Bristol BS99 7UJ 44 0 117 963 6636 Registered in England and Wales No: 3236483 REGISTRARS Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA 0870 241 3932 44 0 121 415 7009 0870 600 3950 text phone for shareholders with hearing difficulties ADR DEPOSITARY Shareholder Services for ADR Holders Citibank Shareholder Services PO Box 43077 Providence, RI 02940-3077 USA Toll-free number in the US:1 877-CITI-ADR 877-248-4237 email: citibank@shareholders-online.
com STOCKBROKERS Hoare Govett Limited, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA 44 0 20 7678 8000 AUDITORS  LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, 31 Great George Street, Bristol BS1 5QD LAWYERS Ashurst, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA Allen & Overy, One New Change London EC4M 9QQ FINANCIAL ADVISERS CitiGroup Citigroup Centre, 33 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5LB.
34 FINANCIAL CALENDAR AND DIVIDENDS Interim results are expected to be announced in April and the full years results in November.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company is to be held on 1 February 2005.
The Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes about the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the booklet enclosed with this report.
Dividends are generally paid in August and February.
Payment of the 2004 final dividend, if approved, will be on 18 February 2005.
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends and who wish to do so should complete a mandate instruction form obtainable from Lloyds TSB Registrars, at the address shown.
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES SHARE DEALING SERVICE A low cost, execution only, postal dealing service for the purchase and sale of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares has been set up by Hoare Govett Limited.
Commission is 1 per cent with a minimum charge of 12.
For details please contact: Hoare Govett Limited, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA, 020 7678 8300.
This service is restricted to UK residents only and transactions are limited to c15,000 approximately 10,000.
INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNT ISA Investors in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares may take advantage of a low cost Individual Savings Account ISA, dedicated to Imperial Tobacco Group shares operated by Lloyds TSB Bank plc.
Details of the ISA, which offers competitive charges, can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars, ISA Team, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6UY, 0870 242 4244. DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN DRIP Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has set up a DRIP to enable shareholders to use their cash dividend to buy further shares in the market through a dividend reinvestment plan.
Further information can be obtained from Lloyds TSB Registrars, PO Box 699, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6YY, 0870 241 3018.
AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPT FACILITY Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs using the symbol ITY.
The ADS facility is administered by Citibank N. A. and enquiries should be directed to them at the address shown.
INTERNATIONAL DIRECT INVESTMENT PROGRAM Imperial Tobacco Group PLC American Depositary Shares have been included in the Citibank International Direct Investment Program.
The International Direct Investment Program provides registered holders and interested investors with a convenient way to purchase and sell Imperial Tobacco Group PLC American Depositary Shares.
To obtain further information about the International Direct Investment Program, please call Citibank N. A. the administrator and sponsor at 1-800-808-8010 toll-free in the US.
WEBSITE Information on Imperial Tobacco Group PLC is available on our website: www.
com Lloyds TSB Registrars also offer a range of shareholder information on-line.
You can access information on your holdings, indicative share prices and dividend details and find practical help on transferring shares or updating your details at www.
35 Summary Accounts Contents 37 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 42 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 54 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 57 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES 57 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 58 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENTS IN SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS 59 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 60 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS 62 SUMMARY OF DIFFERENCES BETWEEN UK AND US GENERALLY ACCEPTED ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES GAAP 65 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES 67 INDEX 68 GLOSSARY OF TERMS.
36 Summary Accounts Summary Financial Statement The Directors of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC have pleasure in presenting the Summary Financial Statement for the year ended 30 September 2004.
Summary Directors Report The principal activities of the Group, a review of its operations, the progress it has made in the year under review and likely future developments in the Groups business are set out in the Chairman and Chief Executives Statement and the Operating and Financial Review.
The Financial results for the year ended 30 September 2004 are summarised on pages 54 to 59 of the Annual Review.
Directors Mr B C Davidson joined the Board as Sales and Marketing Director on 1 October 2003 and Mr D W Thursfield joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 17 November 2003.
The current Directors of the Company are shown on pages 28 and 29.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Messrs A G L Alexander, D C Bonham, G Davis and R Dyrbus retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Acquisitions On 11 May 2004, the Group acquired the business and assets of the CTC Tube Company of Canada.
Financial results and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the financial year was 445 million as shown in the summary consolidated profit and loss account set out on page 54.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: In s million 2004 2003 Ordinary shares Interim paid, 15.0p per share 2003: 12.0p 109 87 Proposed final, 35.0p per share 2003: 30.0p 253 217 Total ordinary dividends, 50.0p per share 2003: 42.0p 362 304 The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 18 February 2005 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 21 January 2005.
Summary Financial Statement This Financial Statement is a summary of information in the Annual Report and Accounts 2004.
As such, it does not contain sufficient information to allow for as full an understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company and the Group as would be provided by full financial statements.
For further information, the full Annual Accounts, the Auditors report on those accounts, and the Directors report should be consulted.
Those shareholders who receive only the Annual Review but would like to receive, free of charge, the Annual Report and Accounts for this year and or all future years should write to the Companys Registrars, or Citibank Shareholder Services, the ADR Depositary.
Auditors The Auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts of the Group was unqualified and did not contain a statement under either section 237 2 of the Companies Act 1985 accounting records or returns inadequate or accounts not agreeing with records and returns or section 237 3 failure to obtain necessary information and explanations.
Annual General Meeting Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 1 February 2005, together with explanations of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, appear in the notice of meeting enclosed with this report.. 37 Summary Financial Statement Independent Auditors statement to the members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC We have examined the Summary Financial Statement of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing the Summarised Annual Report in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary Financial Statement within the Summarised Annual Report with the Annual Financial Statements, the Directors Report and the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Summarised Annual Report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies within the Summary Financial Statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement is consistent with the Annual Financial Statements, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Bristol 8 November 2004.
38 Corporate Governance Throughout the year under review Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has been in compliance with the best practice governance provisions as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Group is also actively addressing those few issues where it does not yet fully meet the further governance provisions of the New Combined Code the New Code, upon which it will be required to report in respect of the financial year ending 30 September 2005.
In addition, since the Group also has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, it complies with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which are applicable to foreign issuers.
In the light of this ongoing obligation, work is currently well underway to enable the Group to meet the further requirements with regard to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which are applicable for its financial year ending 30 September 2005.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the Groups standard of governance and seeks to maintain high standards in the management of the affairs of the Group, seeing it as a fundamental part of discharging its stewardship responsibilities.
Accordingly both the Board and the Audit Committee continue to keep under review the Groups whole system of internal control, encompassing not just financial but also operational controls, compliance and risk management.
Based on these reviews the Board is satisfied that an appropriate internal control framework is in place for the whole Group.
During the course of the financial year there has been significant rationalisation in the way the Group manages its activities, arising principally from the ongoing integration and consolidation following the acquisition of Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH Reemtsma in May 2002.
As previously reported, in January 2003 the German authorities initiated an investigation into alleged foreign trading and related violations by Reemtsma employees during a period prior to its acquisition by the Group which resulted in a number of Reemtsma employees being named in search orders.
The Group confirms that the investigation is continuing and that no charges have been brought against such individuals or Reemtsma in relation to this investigation, which could take several years to be concluded.
A Board Committee, under the Chairmanship of Mr A G L Alexander, established in 2003, continues to monitor both the progress and conduct of the investigation on a regular basis and the Groups responses on behalf of the Board.
The Committee remains satisfied that, since the acquisition, the Group has not been involved in any activities of a nature similar to those alleged by the German authorities.
As previously reported, information was supplied to the UK Office of Fair Trading OFT in October 2003 in relation to an enquiry into the operations of the UK tobacco supply chain.
To date no response to the information submitted has been received from the OFT.
Board and Board Committees The Board of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC, which meets at least five times a year, currently comprises seven Non-Executive Directors and five Executive Directors, with a clear separation of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive to ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
On the 1 October 2003 Mr B C Davidson was appointed to the Board as Sales & Marketing Director, with responsibility for the Groups global sales and marketing activities.
Mr D W Thursfield joined the Board in November 2003 as a Non-Executive Director, having been identified as a suitable candidate by the external search consultancy Whitehead Mann.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, consisting exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, Mr D C Bonham, Mr S Huismans, Dr P H Jungels and Mr D W Thursfield, meets at least twice a year under the chairmanship of Mr I J G Napier.
It is responsible for setting the salaries, incentives and other benefit arrangements of the Executive Directors and the members of the Chief Executives Committee.
The Committee also oversees the overall policy for senior management remuneration and the Groups employee share schemes.
Members of the Remuneration Committee do not participate in decisions concerning their own remuneration.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation to respond to questions raised by the Committee.
However, he is specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of his own remuneration.
The Remuneration Report, which outlines remuneration strategy and policy and includes full details of Directors emoluments, has been approved by the Board and appears in full on page 42.
In addition, it highlights the outcome of the comprehensive review of Executive Remuneration and the changes which will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in February 2005.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee, comprising all the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive with Mr D C Bonham as chairman, meets when necessary to profile role specifications, formulate succession plans and make recommendations to the Board for the appointment of Directors.
New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter all Directors, in accordance with the Code, are subject to re-election at least every three years.
The training needs in respect of new appointments to the Board are assessed and induction arrangements put in place as appropriate.
Existing Directors are encouraged to undertake such professional development, as considered necessary, to assist them in carrying out their duties as Directors.. 39 Corporate Governance Audit Committee The Audit Committee, consisting exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors, Mr A G L Alexander, Mr I J G Napier and Dr P H Jungels, with Mr S P Duffy as chairman met four times during the year.
The Committees terms of reference cover the matters recommended by the Code.
Its duties include monitoring internal control throughout the Group, approving the Groups accounting policies and reviewing all statements containing financial information, in particular the interim and annual financial statements, before submission to the full Board.
The Committee reviews and approves, on an annual basis, the scope and content of the risk assessment and compliance programme implemented by the Group Compliance Function and critically reviews the resource allocated to this activity.
The Finance Director, other financial management and the Groups General Manager Compliance attend by invitation.
The Groups Auditors also attend each meeting.
The Group has maintained and regularly reviews its Auditor Independence Policy document, which provides clear definitions of services that the external Auditors can and cannot provide such that their independence and objectivity are not impaired.
Internal control The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the effectiveness of the system in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance from information and regular reports provided by management, the internally independent Compliance Function and external Auditors.
However, given the size and complexity of the Groups operations, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives by managing rather than eliminating risk.
The following key features have operated to provide reassurance of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: Risk assessment The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by the Executive Directors as part of the medium-term planning and annual and monthly forecasting reporting cycles.
All areas of the business are required to undertake risk-profiling exercises to formally review their principal areas of risk so that all major risks are reviewed at all levels across the Group.
This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk assessment summaries from each business entity for the measurement and assessment of risk areas, together with the controls embedded in the business processes to mitigate such risks.
Control environment and control activities The Group is organised on a functional basis with manufacturing, sales and marketing and central support functions each having their own management and control structures which satisfy the Groups controls, accounting policies and regulatory responsibilities.
Clearly defined lines of responsibility, with personnel of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted roles, remain in place.
The full Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or compliance nature, which are required to be brought to it for decision and has established a framework of policies and procedures to which personnel are expected to comply.
The Group has also put in place a formal policy and arrangements for dealing in confidence with issues of genuine and significant concern raised by employees or others which relate to perceived malpractice, improper business practices, management impropriety or other similar matters, whether financial or non-financial commonly referred to as whistleblowing arrangements.
Information and communication Each area of the business is required to produce detailed financial plans prior to the start of each financial year, which are reviewed for robustness and realism.
Major variances against these plans are promptly and thoroughly investigated and the achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, is also assessed on a regular basis.
Monitoring A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and monitor the effective application of internal controls across the Group.
These include independent reviews by the Group Compliance Function, which reports to the Audit Committee, together with a self assessment of risks and relevant controls.
Furthermore both the senior operational and financial managers of each business and function annually certify that effective systems of internal control have been maintained within their area of responsibility.
In line with recommendations issued by the SEC and to meet developing corporate governance best practice in the UK, the Group has also established a Disclosure Committee comprising appropriate senior executives to consider, in the context of the Groups disclosure obligations, the significance of relevant information identified in order to assist the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Audit Committee in their evaluation of material issues for the purposes of any disclosure that may be required.
The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to the Board on the system of internal control for the financial year ended 30 September 2004.
This was achieved through the procedural and reporting framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as outlined above, and review of the Groups financial statements.. 40 Corporate Governance Going concern The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the foreseeable future.
Pension fund The Groups main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not controlled by the Board but by Trustees, consisting of five nominees from the Company, one member chosen by employees and two by current and deferred pensioners.
The Trustees look after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
The Pension Scheme funds can only be used in accordance with its rules and for no other purpose.
New York Stock Exchange corporate governance requirements As a listed non-US issuer, the Group is required to comply with some of the New York Stock Exchanges NYSE listing standards, being exempt from others.
At this time the Group believes that it is in compliance, in all material respects, with the relevant standards.
However, in respect of the standards relating to the composition of a Nominations Corporate Governance Committee, it is the Groups practice to include the Chief Executive, in addition to all of the Non-Executive Directors, on the Nominations Committee.
Furthermore it is the full Board, not this Committee, that develops, recommends and adopts the corporate governance principles to be applied throughout the Group.
It should also be noted that the role of an internal audit department is incorporated within the general remit of the Groups internally independent Compliance Function.
Communication with shareholders Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
All announcements, investor presentations and share price information are available online through the Imperial Tobacco web-site www.
Additionally, there is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Group indicates the level of proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution proposed at its Annual General Meeting and subsequently on its website.
Details of abstentions are also disclosed.. 41 Directors Remuneration Report This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee, in accordance with The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations and to meet the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In particular, it describes how the Board has applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration set out in the Combined Code.
The Regulations require the Auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information within the Directors Remuneration Report the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the Report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
Their opinion is set out on page 57 of the Annual Report and Accounts and those aspects of the Report which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked.
Remuneration Committee The Board considers itself ultimately responsible for the framework and cost of executive remuneration but has delegated responsibility for determining the remuneration levels and conditions of service for Executive Directors of the Company and members of the Chief Executives Committee to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee also oversees the overall policy for the senior management remuneration and the Groups employee share schemes.
The Committees approach is fully consistent with the Groups overall philosophy that all employees should be competitively rewarded to attract and retain their valued skills in the business, as well as supporting corporate strategy, by directly aligning executive management with the Groups strategic business goals.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company who have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
The members of the Committee during the year were: - Mr I J G Napier Chairman : Mr D C Bonham: Mr S Huismans: Dr P H Jungels: and Mr D W Thursfield from 2 February 2004 The Chief Executive attends by invitation to respond to questions raised by the Committee.
However he is specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of his own remuneration.
The Committee sets the remuneration package for each Executive Director and member of the Chief Executives Committee after taking advice principally from external sources, including remuneration consultants Towers Perrin and Hewitt, Bacon & Woodrow, who were appointed by the Committee to review the Groups principles and practices against corporate governance best practice and provide no other services for the Group.
Executive remuneration data provided by KPMG also appointed by the Committee and having provided tax and other consultancy services to the Group and Towers Perrin together with surveys published by Monks Partnership and William M Mercer have also been used to assist in the benchmarking process.
Mr G Davis, Chief Executive, Mr R C Hannaford, Company Secretary who acted as Secretary to the Committee and retired on 30 September 2004 and Mr D P Cuthbert, Group Compensation and Benefits Manager, also provide internal support and advice.
Solicitors Ashurst and Allen & Overy have also been retained by the Company to review and develop rules for the Groups revised share schemes.
The Remuneration Committee, which operates under clear written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website www.
com, confirms formally that it has been in compliance with the best practice governance provisions as set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year.
Remuneration strategy Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in an increasingly competitive, international environment.
For the Group to continue to compete successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees, at all levels, across the Group.
The Group therefore sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, appropriate to the business environment in those countries in which it operates.
During the year a comprehensive review of executive remuneration has been undertaken and, where appropriate, shareholder approval is being sought at the Annual General Meeting.
As the Group continues to develop internationally and integrate acquisitions, it is having increasing regard to the need to relocate employees from country to country as the requirements of the business dictate and to develop its remuneration arrangements accordingly.
The remuneration strategy is therefore designed not only to align with the Groups fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness and equity but also to support the Groups corporate strategy, as a significant contributor to its competitive advantage.
A cohesive reward structure across the Group - with a timely pay review process, consistently applied to all employees and well communicated to ensure each element of the package is understood with links to corporate performance recognised - is seen as critical in ensuring that all employees can associate with and strive for the Groups strategic goals.
The Group also seeks to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees opportunities and encouragement to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Through a series of share plan initiatives, Sharesave arrangements and Share Matching Schemes, the majority of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in one or more equity-based plans with a significant number taking advantage of those invitations.. 42 Directors Remuneration Report Executive remuneration policy The remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, is intended to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive.
The package is also in line with the Groups overall policy on pay and benefits and, as the Group extends its business internationally, it takes account of market practices outside the UK where the scope of a particular executives role warrants this approach.
The ongoing policy combines short term and long term rewards, focusing on performance-related elements that take into account individual, business unit and corporate performance.
The main components are base salary, an annual cash bonus, a Share Matching Scheme SMS, a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and pension benefits, with an increased weighting towards performance-related variable reward elements.
In the financial year to September 2004, base salary typically represented around 30 per cent of total remuneration with annual bonus and awards vesting under SMS and LTIP schemes making up the balance.
If approved by shareholders, under the revised policy base pay will represent around 20 per cent of Executive Directors potential remuneration.
This policy is set to provide base salary at around the median level of its comparator group while providing the Executive Directors with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior business performance.
Percentage of Total Remuneration For the financial year to September 2004, a more stringent performance criterion was applied to the performance-related elements as detailed in the annual cash bonus and LTIP sections below and on page 47 both of which form part of this policy statement.
Base salary Base salary is reviewed annually and is determined by reference to individual responsibilities, performance and external market data.
Therefore it is set within a range around the market median of the comparator group to reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the relevant executive.
The comparator group of companies chosen remains the FTSE 50 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
Annual cash bonus During the period under review, bonus targets related principally to the achievement of Group profit objectives.
However, the specific targets are not disclosed since they are considered to be commercially confidential.
Performance in the financial year has resulted in bonuses, as detailed in the table on page 46, being awarded to Executive Directors.
Cash bonuses were also earned by other senior executives for achieving performance targets for the financial year to 30 September 2004.
2 For the financial year to 30 September 2004 onwards, the potential maximum bonus was increased from 66 3 per cent to 100 per cent for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and to 75 per cent for other Executive Directors.
However, attainment of these increased bonus levels is subject to achievement of stretching, incremental, profit-based performance criteria.
Under the SMS, Executive Directors and management may elect to invest any proportion, up to a maximum of 100 per cent, of their gross bonus in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares to be held by a nominee controlled by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided that the shares lodged are left with the nominee for three years, the participant will receive the original shares plus additional shares equal in number to the original shares.
In respect of investments made by Executive Directors under the SMS from their bonus payable in December 2003, and for future years, a performance criterion will be applied to the matched shares such that matching will only occur if the Group has achieved in excess of an average three per cent real increase in EPS per annum over the three year retention period, being an indicator of sustained ongoing profit delivery.
Achievement measurement is based on the same protocol as that applying to the LTIP.
There is no opportunity to re-test if this performance criterion is not met.. 43 Directors Remuneration Report Benefits The principal taxable benefits for Executive Directors are the provision of cars and health insurance but in the case of Mr B C Davidson these also include one-off relocation costs.
Remuneration from other non-executive directorships The Company recognises that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
Executive Directors are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to retain any fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Any serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
Mr G Davis serves on the Board of Wolseley PLC and currently receives fees of 43,000 per annum.
Executive Directors service agreements It is the Groups policy to appoint Executive Directors under service agreements terminable by either party giving 52 weeks notice, as shown in the table below.
There are no predetermined provisions for compensation on termination within Executive Directors service agreements.
However, the Group is unequivocally against rewards for failure and believes that severance arrangements should be restricted to base pay and consequential payments such as bonus accrual and pension accrual.
Nevertheless, the circumstances of the termination and the individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate loss would be taken into account.
Under the rules of the LTIP and SMS, outstanding awards vest on termination or on a change of control on a time-related pro-rata basis subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria.
If, however, the termination is by resignation or dismissal for misconduct, the full award lapses.
Date of contract Expiry date Executive Directors G Davis, Chief Executive 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice R Dyrbus, Finance Director 21 August 1996 Terminable on 52 weeks notice D Cresswell, Manufacturing Director 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice F A Rogerson, Corporate Affairs Director 30 May 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice B C Davidson, Sales and Marketing Director 1 October 2003 Terminable on 52 weeks notice Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company.
However the terms of their appointments are reviewed annually and upon them reaching 65 years of age.
These terms were reviewed for all Non-Executive Directors and confirmed on 2 February 2004.
Under the terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, Non-Executive Directors stand for reappointment at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment, are subject to triennial reappointment by shareholders and retire at the Annual General Meeting following their reaching 70 years of age.
There are no provisions in their letters of appointment regarding notice periods or compensation on early termination.
Although there is no current maximum term of appointment for Non-Executive Directors, the Board is supportive of the best practice provisions outlined in the Higgs Report.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole with regard to market practice and within the restrictions contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Non-Executive Directors do not take part in discussions on their own remuneration.
They receive no other material pay or benefits with the exception of reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their directorship of the Company and provision of administrative support including the use of Company offices by the Chairman and Vice Chairman, do not participate in the Companys share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and are not eligible for pension scheme membership.
To align further the interest of the Non-Executive Directors with those of shareholders, it was agreed that a proportion of their fees be applied, after tax, to purchase shares in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
These shares are to be held by a nominee during the term of each Non-Executive Directorship.
Exceptionally in respect of Mr D C Bonham and Mr A G L Alexander, this requirement has been waived due to their substantial shareholdings, as detailed below.
Mr S Huismans is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group for which he received additional remuneration for fulfilling such non-executive roles.. 44 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration arrangements for former Directors Following his retirement in May 2000, Mr S T Painter entered into a consultancy agreement with Imperial Tobacco Limited, the Groups principal operating company.
The agreement, as amended in October 2001 and May 2004, runs to March 2007.
Under the terms of the agreement he provides consultancy services as required and receives fees at a day rate of 1,000 with a minimum fee based on 100 days service for each 12 month period ending on 30 June, and 67 days for the period 1 July 2006 to 6 March 2007.
The agreement is terminable by either party giving 12 months notice.
He is also entitled to reimbursement for the use of his car.
Mr S T Painter is also a member of Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group for which he receives additional remuneration, for fulfilling such non-executive roles.
Following the acceptance by the Board, on 9 July 2003, of the resignation of Mr L W Staby, it was agreed that his remuneration continue until the expiry of his term of office on 1 February 2004.
Similarly the Company agreed that remuneration attributable to his duties on the Supervisory Boards of Reemtsma companies continued to be paid on a similar basis.
In respect of Mr M A Hussler, subsequent to his resignation as a Director of the Company with effect from 9 July 2003, he remains an employee receiving his full contractual remuneration.
DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2004 audited 2004 2003 000 000 Executive Directors Salary 1,980 1,444 Benefits 220 141 Bonus 1,455 955 1 LTIP annual vesting 1,508 937 2 SMS vesting 1,512 902 6,675 4,379 Non-Executive Directors Fees 485 457 Benefits 7 5 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 41 514 503 Former directors Consultancy fees to former executive director 125 100 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 23 Salary of former Executive Director 397 86 Bonus 258 56 Benefits 26 2 LTIP vesting on retirement 5 828 272 Fees of former Non-Executive Directors Company 12 8 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 7 5 19 13 Total remuneration 8,036 5,167 1.
Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year, based on the closing share price on the day of exercise.
Benefits in kind principally include the provision of a Company car and health insurance.
LTIP and SMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year both on annual vesting and retirement.
Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but receives fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
Mr M A Hussler and Mr L W Staby resigned from the Board on 9 July 2003.
Mr C A C Inston retired on grounds of ill health on 14 December 2001.
Mr B C Davidson was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2003.
Benefits in kind include one-off relocation assistance of 135,520 in respect of Mr B C Davidson.
Base salary of Mr M A Hussler includes the payment of a pension allowance of 10,200 which is neither eligible for bonus nor share schemes and is not pensionable.
Executive share retention and executive remuneration review To ensure the interests of management remain aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors and senior executives are required to meet minimum shareholding guidelines by building a stake in the Group to a current minimum value broadly equivalent to twice their base salary.
At a more junior level, executives are expected to invest at a level equivalent to their base salary.
Following the remuneration review during 2004 the Chief Executive and Finance Director will be expected to invest at a level equivalent to three times their base salary, with the guidelines remaining unchanged for the remaining Executive Directors and senior executives.
The additional results of the remuneration review relate to LTIPs and are set out below.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Each year since demerger in 1996, annual awards worth 75 per cent of basic salary, have been made to Executive Directors under the LTIP and awards at a lower level have been made to other senior executives.
The awards, which vest three years after grant, are subject to the satisfaction of an applicable performance criterion, as set out below, over a three-year performance period.
It is anticipated that a further conditional award worth 75 per cent of basic salary will be made during November 2004.
For the December 2000 and future awards, the Committee replaced total shareholder return TSR with earnings per share EPS growth as the performance criterion.
This was seen as enhancing the incentive effect of the Plan by focusing on the financial performance of the business, over which Directors and executives have power to influence.
The Committee nevertheless retains absolute discretion to ensure that the EPS performance criterion fully reflects the underlying performance of the Group before any awards vest, including maintenance of long-term return on capital employed.
Awards vest on a sliding scale depending on average growth in basic EPS adjusted for amortisation, based on an agreed protocol to allow appropriate adjustments for exceptional and extraordinary items.
The adjustments are confirmed by the Auditors after adjusting for inflation over the period of the award.
No vesting occurs unless the Companys average real EPS growth is positive.
Full vesting occurs if real EPS growth is equal to or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points the award vests on a straight-line basis.
In order to ensure that the performance criterion remains challenging, in 2003 the lower threshold was raised.
Therefore for the 2003 and the proposed 2004 awards, vesting will only occur if average real EPS growth exceeds three per cent per annum.
The upper threshold of 10 per cent real EPS growth remains unchanged.
On vesting, a participant is granted a nil cost option to acquire the relevant number of shares.
The option may be exercised at any time up to the seventh anniversary of its date of grant.
There is no opportunity to re-test if the performance criterion is not achieved.. 47 Directors Remuneration Report Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP continued Following the remuneration review in 2004 and subsequent consultation with major shareholders for the 2005 and future awards it is proposed, subject to shareholder approval, that awards equivalent to twice salary in respect of the Chief Executive, one and a half times salary for the Finance Director and once salary for other Executive Directors be made with the performance criteria split into three elements as follows: First element 50 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on EPS as described above, with 12.5 per cent of this element vesting if average real EPS growth equals three per cent and 100 per cent of this element vesting if average real EPS growth equals or exceeds 10 per cent.
Between these two points awards vest on a straight-line basis: Second element 25 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to the FTSE 100 Index as described below: and Third element 25 per cent of the award with a performance criterion based on TSR relative to a bespoke comparator group also described below.
The proposed performance criterion for the second element will be based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the period of the award.
No vesting of this element will occur unless the Companys total shareholder return ranks it in the top 50 of the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.
At this performance threshold 30 per cent of this element will vest.
If the return ranks the Company in the top 25 of the Index, this element will vest in full.
Between these thresholds the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
The TSR calculations will use share prices averaged over a period to determine initial and closing prices rather than those ruling on a single day.
It is assumed that the cash flow of dividend payments is recognised on the date the shares are declared ex dividend.
This method is considered to give a fairer and less volatile result since improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
The TSR calculations themselves will be performed independently by Alithos Limited appointed by the Company but who will perform no other services for the Group and then approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The proposed performance criterion for the third element will also be based on a sliding scale depending on TSR achieved over the period of the award.
No vesting of this element will occur unless the Companys TSR exceeds that of the bottom six companies constituting a bespoke comparator group comprising of 12 tobacco and alcohol companies as detailed in the table below.
At this performance threshold, 30 per cent of the third element will vest.
If the return ranks the Company in the top three of the comparator group, this element will vest in full.
Each element will operate independently and will be capable of vesting regardless of the Companys performance in respect of the other elements.
However, the Remuneration Committee may vary, but not increase, the extent to which the award vests to ensure that it only vests, and at an appropriate level, if there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company, including the maintenance of long-term return on capital employed.
EPS over the period averaged 20.19 per cent exceeding the average of 10 per cent, the threshold at which the award maximises.
In respect of the November 2001 November 2004 award, based on EPS to the end of the financial year, 100 per cent of the award will vest on 26 November 2004.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 4 November 2004, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, was 12.86 valuing the awards as follows: Award vesting no.
of shares Award vesting Award lapsing over which illustrative value no.
49 Directors Remuneration Report Executive Directors conditional share awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plan continued The value of any awards vesting could vary significantly from the above due to share price movements.
The Remuneration Committee regards the November 2002 November 2005 and the November 2003 November 2006 awards to be too distant from maturity to be included in the value projected above.
However, in respect of these awards, the adjusted EPS has grown by more than 10 per cent in real terms in the financial year and, therefore, if this performance were maintained over the relevant performance periods both awards would vest in full, their illustrative values based on the above share price are as follows.
Potential Awards Vesting November 2005 November 2006 Illustrative value Illustrative value No.
TSR Return Relative to FTSE 100 Index The FTSE 100 Index is seen to provide the most appropriate and most widely recognised index for benchmarking the corporate performance of the Company which is a constituent of that index and reflects one of the benchmark indices proposed for use as an LTIP performance measure.
Shareholder approval for the amendment of the LTIP will be sought at the Annual General Meeting and further details of the proposed amendments can be found in the accompanying notice of the meeting.
Share Matching Scheme SMS Centenary Scheme To encourage employees to acquire and retain a shareholding, and to mark the centenary of the founding of The Imperial Tobacco Company of Great Britain and Ireland Limited, all employees of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries employed on 10 December 2001, the date of the centenary, were invited to purchase up to 3,000 worth of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Ordinary Shares and lodge them with the Employee Benefit Trust.
Provided these shares are left in the Trust, the lodged shares will be matched on a sliding scale from 20 per cent for one years retention to a maximum of 100 per cent if they are retained for five years.. 50 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Scheme As detailed under annual cash bonus on page 43, the Scheme also allows Executive Directors and most of the Groups management to invest their bonus in shares, which are matched 1:1 over a three year period.
Shareholder approval for the amendment of the SMS will be sought at the Annual General Meeting and further information on the proposed amendment can be found in the notice of meeting.
These will be matched with additional shares, equal in number to the original shares, provided they are both left in the SMS for three years and if the Company has achieved in excess of an average of three per cent real increase in EPS per annum over the retention period.
These additional shares are shown within contingent rights above.
There have been no further changes since 30 September 2004.
Share options The Company does not operate an executive share option scheme.
However, Executive Directors are eligible along with all employees of the Company and any participating subsidiary of the Group to participate in Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs savings-related Sharesave Scheme.
Under this Scheme options are granted, at a discount of up to 20 per cent to the closing mid-market price on the day prior to invitation, to participants who have contracted to save up to 250 per month over a period of three or five years.
Shareholder approval for the replacement of the savings-related Sharesave Scheme will be sought at the Annual General Meeting and further information on the proposed replacement can be found in the notice of meeting.
Aggregate gains during the year were 5,694 2003: 27,735.
2 any option not exercised by the end of the range of exercisable dates will expire.
There have been no changes since 30 September 2004.
The Companys middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2004 was 12.04 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 9.67 to 12.86.
Full details are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at the Companys registered office.. 52 Directors Remuneration Report Employee Benefit Trust The Imperial Tobacco Group Employee and Executive Benefit Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust have been established to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise of share options and on the vesting of the SMS and LTIP awards.
As potential beneficiaries of the Employee and Executive Benefit Trust, each of the Executive Directors is deemed to have a contingent interest in the 828,432 Ordinary Shares of the Company held by that Trust at 30 September 2004.
The Companys policy has always been, and continues to be, to satisfy all awards under its share schemes from market purchased shares through the Trusts.
The Trust Deeds and the rules of all schemes contain provisions limiting awards to five per cent in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee schemes with an additional restriction to five per cent in 10 years for executive schemes.
Currently an aggregate of only 0.9 per cent of the Companys issued share capital is subject to awards under the Groups share schemes.
Directors pensions The Executive Directors are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, the principal defined benefit scheme operated by the Group.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the fund is non-contributory and fully funded with a normal retirement age of 60.
The fund allows members to achieve the maximum pension of two-thirds of their salary at normal retirement age after 32 years service.
Pension commutation to enable participants to receive a lump sum on retirement is permitted within Inland Revenue limits.
For death before retirement, a capital sum equal to four times salary is payable together with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members expected pension at retirement.
For death in retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pre-commutation pension is payable.
Dependant children will also receive allowances.
Pensions increase by the lesser of 10 per cent and the increase in RPI, together with an option under the rules to surrender part of a pension for pension increases in line with the general index of retail prices of up to 15 per cent.
All Executive Directors earn benefits on the standard scale with a normal retirement age of 60.
In previous years, details of Directors pension benefits have been reported in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
However the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 have introduced the requirement to disclose additional information for Directors pension benefits under defined benefit schemes.
The following table provides the information required on both bases and gives details for each Director of: the annual accrued pension payable from normal retirement age, calculated as if he had left service at the year end: the increase in accrued pension during the year, excluding any increases for inflation in respect of the disclosure required under the Listing Rules: and the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension calculated in accordance with the actuarial guidance note GN11.
None of the Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
audited Disclosures required under Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules Increase Age at Pensionable Accrued pension Transfer value in accrued Transfer 30 9 04 service at 000 of accrued pension 000 pension value Years 30 9 04 at Increase at at Increase Directors at net of of Years 1 10 03 during 30 9 04 1 10 03 during the contribution 30 9 04 inflation increase the year year net of during the net of Directors year inflation contributions 000 000 G Davis 54 32 403 40 443 4,790 824 5,614 29 366 R Dyrbus 51 22 172 27 199 1,671 393 2,064 22 233 D Cresswell 59 42 140 60 200 2,486 1,307 3,793 56 1,064 F A Rogerson 51 27 122 53 175 1,171 636 1,807 49 516 B C Davidson 48 6 19 3 22 147 39 186 3 29 The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.. 53 Summary Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30 September 2004 In s million 2004 2003 Turnover 11,005 11,412 Duty in turnover 7,973 8,212 Costs and overheads less other income 2,147 2,319 Operating profit 885 881 Group operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 1,218 1,135 Amortisation 204 203 Exceptional items 129 51 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 7 12 Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 892 893 Interest and other finance charges 204 237 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 688 656 Taxation 238 232 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 450 424 Equity minority interests 5 3 Profit attributable to shareholders 445 421 Dividends 362 304 Retained profit for the year 83 117 Earnings per ordinary share Basic 61.4p 58.1p Adjusted before amortisation and exceptional items 101.6p 90.0p Diluted 61.2p 57.9p Dividends per ordinary share Interim 15.0p 12.0p Proposed final 35.0p 30.0p All activities derive from continuing operations.
There is no difference between the profit as shown above and that calculated on an historical cost basis.
Segmental information by destination In s million 2004 2003 Turnover UK 4,776 4,568 Germany 2,478 2,765 Rest of Western Europe 1,556 1,635 Rest of the World 2,195 2,444 International 6,229 6,844 11,005 11,412.
54 Summary Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30 September 2004 Segmental information by destination In s million 2004 2003 Operating profit UK 454 406 Germany 237 228 Rest of Western Europe 329 307 Rest of the World 198 194 International 764 729 Trading operations 1,218 1,135 Amortisation 204 203 Exceptional items 129 51 885 881 Exceptional operating costs of 129m relate to the further restructuring of the business following the Reemtsma acquisition in 2002.
These initiatives included the closure of certain factories in Central Europe, announced in January 2004, and salesforce reorganisations in Germany and Central Europe.
In addition, exceptional costs include the agreed renegotiation of the Formula One contract due to legislative constraints.
Analysis of costs in s million : Employment related mainly termination 51 Fixed asset write offs and impairment 27 Other operating charges 51 129 The profit on disposal of fixed assets relates to the sale of land and buildings no longer required by the business.
In 2003 the exceptional operating costs of 51m comprised 42m in respect of the reorganisation of the Group, announced in September 2002, to integrate Reemtsma with the Groups existing businesses, 5m in respect of the closure of the Meppel factory in The Netherlands and a further 4m to finalise the streamlining of the Groups operations announced in October 2001.
These costs related primarily to termination of employment.. 55 Summary Consolidated Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 30 September 2004 Earnings per share In pence 2004 2003 Earnings per share Basic 61.4 58.1 Adjustment for amortisation and exceptional items 40.2 31.9 Adjusted 101.6 90.0 Diluted 61.2 57.9 In s million 2004 2003 Earnings Basic 445 421 Adjustment for amortisation and exceptional items 291 231 Adjusted 736 652 Adjusted earnings per share are calculated before tax-effected exceptional items of 89m 2003: 28m, tax-effected amortisation of intangibles of 6m 2003: nil, and goodwill amortisation of 196m 2003: 203m, since the Directors consider that this provides a better comparison of underlying business performance.
There would be no significant dilution of earnings if the outstanding share options were exercised.
56 Summary Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses for the year ended 30 September 2004 In s million 2004 2003 Profit attributable to shareholders 445 421 Exchange movements on retranslation of net investments and related borrowings 31 101 Taxation credit on borrowings hedging overseas equity investments 33 Total recognised gains for the year 414 555 Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet at 30 September 2004 Restated for UITF 17 and UITF 38 In s million 2004 2003 Fixed assets Intangible assets 3,547 3,807 Tangible assets 651 714 Investments 7 7 4,205 4,528 Current assets Stocks 864 1,009 Debtors 1,021 1,002 Investments 77 68 Cash 262 321 2,224 2,400 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2,556 2,875 Net current liabilities 332 475 Total assets less current liabilities 3,873 4,053 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 3,267 3,485 Provisions for liabilities and charges 470 509 Net assets 136 59 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 73 73 Share premium account 964 964 Profit and loss account 919 997 Equity shareholders funds 118 40 Equity minority interests 18 19 136 59 The impact of the restatement was to reduce fixed asset investments by 36m and increase the deficit in the profit and loss account reserve by a corresponding amount and has no material effect on the Group profit after tax in either year.. 57 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds for the year ended 30 September 2004 Restated for UITF 17 and UITF 38 In s million 2004 2003 Profit attributable to shareholders 445 421 Dividends 362 304 Retained profit for the year 83 117 Credit debit in respect of employee share schemes 9 17 Exchange movements on goodwill previously written off 17 83 Other net exchange movements 31 101 Taxation credit on borrowings hedging overseas equity investments 33 Net addition to shareholders funds 78 151 Opening shareholders funds 40 111 originally 76m and 92 m before prior year adjustments of 36 m and 19 m Closing shareholders funds 118 40.
58 Summary Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 30 September 2004 Restated for UITF 17 and UITF 38 In s million 2004 2003 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,241 802 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 212 237 Taxation 236 154 Capital expenditure and financial investment 48 59 Acquisitions Payments to acquire businesses 27 2 Deferred consideration in respect of prior year acquisitions 420 47 Net cash outflow from acquisitions 447 49 Equity dividends paid 326 254 Net cash outflow inflow before management of liquid resources and financing 28 49 Management of liquid resources 8 58 Financing Net purchase of shares by Employee Share Ownership Trusts 40 Decrease in borrowings 19 86 Decrease in cash in the year 55 19 The impact of the restatement has been to reflect the reallocation of the cash payments relating to the purchase of shares from Capital expenditure and financial investment to Financing.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt In s million 2004 2003 Decrease in cash in the year 55 19 Cash outflow from decrease in debt 19 86 Cash outflow inflow from increase decrease in liquid resources 8 58 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 28 9 Currency and other movements 90 382 Deferred consideration 418 Movement in net debt in the year 480 373 Opening net debt 4,068 3,695 Closing net debt 3,588 4,068.
59 Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Following a regulation issued by the Council of the European Union, all European companies listed in a European Securities market will be required to adopt EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and International Accounting Standards IASs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB in the preparation of financial statements from 2005 onwards.
This means the Group will prepare its first financial statements in accordance with IFRS for the year ended 30 September 2006.
The adoption of these standards will lead to some changes in the Groups accounting policies, results and the presentation of the financial statements.
Uncertainty still exists about the number of comparative years of financial statements the Group will be required to present to comply with US requirements.
Usually these require two years of comparative information for the profit and loss account and cash flow statement.
On 12 March 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission published proposals whereby foreign registrants adopting IFRS for the first time would only be required to provide one year of comparative information instead of two.
If the proposals are approved, the opening balance sheet for the Group will be as at 1 October 2004.
Uncertainty also exists regarding the final Standards which will be applicable on transition, particularly in respect of IAS 39 Financial Instruments : Recognition and Measurement, and IAS19 Employee benefits.
Management of transition to IFRS The Group has established a formal project team to manage the transition to IFRS reporting.
The project is monitored by a steering committee and regular updates are provided to the Board and Audit Committee.
The project consists of three phases: scoping, evaluation and implementation.
Scoping The scoping of the project was complete by March 2004 and delivered a high-level review of potential differences to existing accounting policies and disclosures, together with a view as to required system and business process changes.
Evaluation The evaluation phase was well advanced at 30 September 2004 in delivering an analysis of IFRS permitted accounting policy alternatives, specification of changes required to accounting policies, systems and business processes, as well as the development of draft financial statements.
The Group will continue to evaluate the impact of IFRSs up to actual implementation.
Implementation The implementation phase has been started.
It includes training for the Groups finance staff, formal approval of the changes to accounting policies, as well as effecting the changes to systems and business processes.
This phase is expected to be completed by June 2005.
Key differences between UK GAAP and IFRS Based on the Groups initial assessment, we believe that the major impacts on net profit and shareholders funds will be in the following areas.
The summary should not be taken as a comprehensive or complete list of the impacts that the adoption of IFRS may have on the Groups financial statements.
Other significant differences may arise as a result of the continuing detailed assessment and uncertainties relating to standards that have not yet been finalised or approved by the EU.
In addition, the IASB may issue new or revised standards, which will either be mandatory for the Groups 2006 financial statements or which the Group could adopt early.
Financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
Under UK GAAP, these are not recognised on the balance sheet.
Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments : Recognition and Measurement, all derivative financial instruments must be recognised on the balance sheet at fair value, with changes in the fair value being recognised in the profit and loss account.
Hedge accounting permissibility is much more restricted under IAS 39 than at present under UK GAAP specific designation and effectiveness criteria must be satisfied.
Where hedge accounting is achieved, the profit and loss account impact of changes in fair value may be postponed and matched to the profit and loss impact of the underlying hedged exposure.
The Group has and continues to hedge underlying exposures in an efficient, commercial and structured manner.
However, the strict requirements under IAS 39 may lead to some hedge positions which are commercially effective not being effective for accounting purposes.
At this stage, the Group does not see a need to change how it currently hedges those underlying exposures and is currently reviewing the degree of hedge effectiveness for accounting purposes.. 60 Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Post employment benefits Under UK GAAP, the Group accounts for its pension costs under SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
The Group also reports the transitional disclosures required by FRS 17 Retirement Benefits in note 23 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
FRS 17 and IAS 19 are similar in their rules regarding measurement and disclosure of retirement benefits, but there are significant differences in the recognition of actuarial gains and losses and the presentation of items in the financial statements.
Both standards require that defined benefit scheme assets and liabilities are valued at each balance sheet date to produce an asset or liability for recognition on the balance sheet.
All of the items recognised in the profit and loss account under FRS 17 are treated in a similar way under IAS 19.
However, actuarial gains and losses that are recognised immediately in the statement of total recognised gains and losses under FRS 17 are instead recognised in the profit and loss account under IAS 19, usually over a period representing the expected average remaining working lives of employees participating in the scheme.
Any deferred actuarial gains and losses are carried on the balance sheet as part of the net pension asset or liability.
The recognised asset or liability will be subject to changes in value that may be more volatile than that currently recognised under SSAP 24.
This volatility can be recognised through direct recognition in the profit and loss account or through the corridor approach described above.
The option to recognise directly in equity is currently in exposure draft form.
Intangible fixed assets - goodwill Under UK GAAP, the Group amortises goodwill on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, a period not exceeding 20 years.
Under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, goodwill will no longer be amortised, but instead will be subject to an annual impairment test.
Goodwill deemed to be impaired will be written down to its implied value.
This will remove the amortisation charge from the profit and loss account, although if any impairment losses are indicated, they would be recorded in the profit and loss account.
Intangible fixed assets - other IAS 38 Intangible assets provides more detailed guidance on intangible assets than UK GAAP requiring the Group to recognise, capitalise and amortise other intangibles on the balance sheet providing they meet certain criteria.
Proposed dividends Under current UK GAAP, proposed dividends are accrued for as an adjusting post balance sheet event in the accounting period to which they relate.
Under IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date, the dividend cost will be accounted for in the period in which they are declared and approved.
Share based payments Under current UK GAAP, the Group recognises a charge in the profit and loss account for its share option schemes based on the difference between the exercise price of the award and the share price at the date of grant the intrinsic value.
Under IFRS 2 Share based payments, the Group is required to measure the cost of all options granted since November 2002 based on the fair value of the awards calculated at grant date using an option price model.
This will change the profit and loss charge to the Group, although we do not anticipate a material difference.. 61 Summary of differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles GAAP The accompanying consolidated financial information has been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
Such principles differ in certain respects from generally accepted accounting principles in the United States US GAAP.
A summary of principal differences and additional disclosures applicable to the Group is set out below.
Explanation In s million reference 2004 2003 Profit attributable to shareholders under UK GAAP 445 421 US GAAP adjustments: Pensions i 3 2 Amortisation of goodwill ii 196 194 Amortisation of brands trade marks licences ii 99 102 Deferred taxation iii 57 57 Mark to market adjustments due to non designation of hedge accounting per SFAS 133 iv 50 82 Employee share schemes charge credit to the profit and loss account vi 9 6 Net income under US GAAP 543 496 Explanation In pence reference 2004 2003 Amounts in accordance with US GAAP Basic net income per ordinary share vii 75.0 68.5 Basic net income per ADS vii 150.0 137.0 Diluted net income per ordinary share vii 74.6 68.2 Diluted net income per ADS vii 149.2 136.4 Restated for UITF 17 Explanation and UITF 38 In s million reference 2004 2003 Equity shareholders funds under UK GAAP 118 76 Prior year adjustments 36 Equity shareholders funds under UK GAAP as restated 118 40 US GAAP adjustments: Pensions i 343 345 Goodwill, less accumulated amortisation of 386 m 2003: 190 m ii 839 1,060 Brands trade marks licences, less accumulated amortisation of 261m 2003: 162m ii 2,762 2,921 Deferred taxation iii 932 1,008 Mark to market adjustments due to non designation of hedge accounting per SFAS 133 iv 37 13 Proposed dividend v 253 217 Employee share schemes vi 9 1 Shareholders funds under US GAAP 1,659 1,467.
62 Summary of differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles GAAP i Pensions Under UK GAAP, pension costs are accounted for under the rules set out in Statement of Standard Accounting Practice No.
Its objectives and principles are broadly in line with those set out in the US accounting standard for pensions, Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No.
87, Employers Accounting for Pensions SFAS 87.
However, SSAP 24 is less prescriptive in the application of the actuarial method and assumptions to be applied in the calculation of pension costs.
In accordance with SSAP 24, no pension expense has been reflected in the profit and loss account and no pension asset has been recognised in the balance sheet for the UK and Irish pension schemes.
A pension liability and related pension expense is recognised for the German unfunded pension schemes.
Under US GAAP, the annual pension cost comprises the estimated cost of benefits accruing in the period as determined in accordance with SFAS 87.
Under SFAS 87, a pension asset representing the excess of Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund assets over benefit obligations has been recognised in the balance sheet.
ii Business combinations Both UK and US GAAP require the purchase consideration relating to a business combination to be allocated to the net assets acquired at their fair value on the date of acquisition.
Intangible assets Under UK GAAP fair values are assigned to identifiable intangible assets only if the identifiable intangibles are capable of being disposed of or settled separately, without disposing of a business of the entity.
Under US GAAP, identifiable assets are separately valued and amortised over their useful lives.
The separately identifiable intangible assets included in the US GAAP balance sheet are principally comprised of brand rights, which are being amortised over periods between 25 to 30 years.
Goodwill amortisation Under UK GAAP, goodwill arising and separately identifiable and separable intangible assets acquired on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 are capitalised and amortised over their useful life, not exceeding a period of 20 years.
Prior to 27 September 1998, all goodwill and separately identifiable and separable intangible assets were written off to reserves on acquisition.
The Company adopted SFAS 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets with effect from 1 July 2001 and accordingly goodwill arising on acquisitions after this date are not amortised.
For purchase transactions prior to 1 July 2001, goodwill was capitalised and amortised over its useful life.
From 29 September 2002, in accordance with SFAS 142, the Company no longer amortises goodwill but rather tests such assets for impairment on an annual basis or where there is an indicator of impairment.
The Company completed an annual impairment review under SFAS 142 at 30 September 2004 and no impairment of goodwill was indicated.
iii Deferred taxation Under UK GAAP, deferred taxation is provided in full on all material timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not.
US GAAP requires deferred taxation to be provided in full, using the liability method.
In addition, US GAAP requires the recognition of the deferred tax consequences of differences between the assigned values and the tax bases of the identifiable intangible assets, with the exception of non tax-deductible goodwill, in a purchase business combination.
Consequently, the deferred tax liability attributable to identifiable intangible assets has been recognised and is being amortised over the useful economic lives of the underlying intangible assets.. 63 Summary of differences between UK and US generally accepted accounting principles GAAP iv Derivative financial instruments The Group has entered into certain swap transactions with contractual maturities exceeding those of the underlying debt being hedged, in anticipation of there being additional floating rate debt when the existing debt matures.
Under UK GAAP, derivative financial instruments that reduce exposures on anticipated future transactions may be accounted for using hedge accounting.
US GAAP requires the Group to record all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value.
The Group has decided not to satisfy the SFAS 133 requirements to achieve hedge accounting for its derivatives, where permitted, and accordingly movements in the fair value of derivatives are recorded in the profit and loss account.
v Proposed dividends Under UK GAAP, dividends paid and proposed are shown on the face of the profit and loss account as an appropriation of the current years earnings.
Proposed dividends are provided on the basis of recommendation by the Directors and are subject to subsequent approval by shareholders.
Under US GAAP, dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved by the shareholders.
vi Employee share schemes Under UK GAAP, the cost of employee share schemes is charged to the profit and loss account using the quoted market price of shares at the date of grant less the exercise price of the share options granted.
The charge is accrued over the vesting period of the shares.
Under US GAAP, the compensation cost is recognised for the difference between the exercise price of the share options granted and the quoted market price of the shares at the date of grant or measurement date and accrued over the vesting period of the options.
For option plans which contain performance criteria, compensation cost is remeasured at each period end until all performance criteria have been met.
vii Net income per share Basic net income per ordinary share has been computed using US GAAP net income and weighted average ordinary shares.
Diluted net income per ordinary share has been calculated by taking into account the weighted average number of shares that would be issued on conversion into ordinary shares of options held under employee share schemes.
There would be no significant dilution of earnings if outstanding share options were exercised.
Each American Depositary Share ADS represents two Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares.. 64 Principal Subsidiaries The principal wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Group held throughout the year, all of which are unlisted, are shown below: Registered in England and Wales Name Principal activity Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company Imperial Tobacco Holdings Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products Rizla UK Limited Manufacture of rolling papers in the UK Incorporated overseas Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Badische Tabakmanufaktur Roth-Hndle GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany Dunkerquoise des Blends S. A. France Tobacco processing Ets.
L. Lacroix Fils N. V. Rizla Belgium N. V., Belgium Manufacture of rolling papers and accessories and marketing and sale of tobacco products in Belgium Imperial Tobacco Asia Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Marketing and sale of tobacco products in South East Asia Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszg Dohnyforgalmaz kft, Hungary Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited, New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand Imperial Tobacco Overseas B. V. The Netherlands Finance company Imperial Tobacco Slovakia, Slovakia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Slovak Republic John Player & Sons Limited, Republic of Ireland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland John Player S. A. Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Spain Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany and export of tobacco products Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited, China Marketing of tobacco products in China Reemtsma International Praha spol s. r. o. Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic Reemtsma Kiev Tyutyunova Fabrika, The Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in The Ukraine Reemtsma Ukraine, The Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in The Ukraine OOO Reemtsma Volga Tabakfabrik, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia OOO Reemtsma, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia Tobaccor S. A.
S, France Holding investments in subsidiary companies Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B. V. The Netherlands Manufacture of roll your own and pipe tobaccos and marketing and sale of tobacco products in The Netherlands Van Nelle Tobacco International Holdings B. V. The Netherlands Sale of roll your own and pipe tobaccos.
65 Principal Subsidiaries The principal partly-owned subsidiaries of the Group, held throughout the year, are shown below.
All are unlisted unless otherwise indicated: Incorporated overseas Percentage Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan AO, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Kyrgyzstan 98.7 Imperial Tobacco Polska S. A. Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Poland 96 1 Socit Ivoirienne des Tabacs S. A. Cte dIvoire Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Ivory Coast 74 Tobacna Ljubljana d. o. o. Slovenia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Slovenia 76 1 Listed on the Cte dIvoire Stock Exchange In addition the Group also wholly owns the following partnerships: Name and country Principal activity Imperial Tobacco EFKA GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany.
Reemtsma Holding GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Holding investments in subsidiary companies Principal place of business: Max-Born-Strasse 4, 22761 Hamburg, Germany.
The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same, with the exception of Tobacna Ljubljana d. o. o. in which the Group holds 99% of the voting rights.
The consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above.
With the exception of Imperial Tobacco Holdings Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries are held by the Company.
A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.. 66 Index A E R Accounting policy and Earnings per share 02, 15, 56 Reconciliation of movements presentation changes 57, 59 Employees Employment 31 in shareholders funds 58 Accounts 54-66 Environmental Management 33 Regional Performance Analysis 14 Acquisitions IFC, 14, 37 Exceptional Items 14, 55 Registrars 34 Africa 23 Remuneration Committee 39, 42 American Depositary F Remuneration Report 42-53 Receipts Shares 34-35, 64 Financial Calendar 35 Rest of the World region 22-23 Annual General Meeting 35, 37 Financial Highlights 02-03 Rest of Western Europe region 20-21 Asia 23 France 21 Risk 40 Audit Committee 40 Russia 23 Auditor statement 38 G Australia 23 Germany 18-19 S Glossary of Terms 68 Segmental information 14, 54-55 B Greece 21 Share price 49, 52 Balance Sheet 57 Shareholder information 34-35 Board Committees 39 H Slovakia 23 Board of Directors 28-29, 37 Health and Safety 24, 31 Slovenia 23 Brands IFC, 10-11 Hungary 23 Smoking in Public Places 26 Business description IFC Social and Community Investment 33 Business highlights IFC I Spain 21 Business in the Community Imperial Tobacco at a glance IFC Statement of total recognised Environment Index 33 Interest 14 gains and losses 57 Buyback of ordinary shares 06, 15 International Financial Strategy IFC Reporting Standards 15, 60-61 Subsidiary undertakings 65-66 C International Reach 08-09 Supply Chain Management 24 Contents 01 Ireland 21 Capital expenditure15 Italy 21 T Carbon Disclosure Project 33 Taiwan 23 Cash flow 15, 59 L Taxation 14, 27 Chairman and Laos 23 Total Shareholder Return Index 03, 50 Chief Executives Statement 04-07 Litigation 27 Travel retail 21 Chief Executives Committee 30-31 Turkey 23 China 23 M Company hallmarks 01 Manufacturing 24 U Company profile IFC Multi-Product Advantage 10-11 Ukraine, The 23 Corporate Governance 39-41 United Kingdom 16-17 Corporate Responsibilities 28-35 N UK US GAAP reconciliation 62-64 Corporate Responsibility Review 32-33 Nominations Committee 39 Cost & Capital Management 24 Netherlands, The 21 V Czech Republic 23 Vietnam 23 O D Operating and Financial Review 12-27 Debt 15 Operating Environment 26-27 Directors Outlook 06, 17, 19, 21, 23, 24 interests in shares 47 remuneration 46-53 P report, summary 37 Pensions 41 Disposals 13-14 Poland 23 Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP 35 Profit and Loss account 54 Dividends 05, 15, 37 Donations 33 Duty free 23.
67 Glossary of Terms American Depositary Receipt ADR ITY.
N Certificate evidencing a holding of American Depositary Shares.
Symbol used on the New York Stock Exchange for Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares.
American Depositary Share ADS Imperial Tobacco Group PLC ordinary shares are traded on the LSE New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary London Stock Exchange.
The ADS programme Market capitalisation is administered by Citibank.
The latest closing price of this share multiplied by the number of shares issued.
Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EBITA Profit on ordinary activities before interest adjusted for goodwill Market Share amortisation and exceptional items.
This has Earnings before interest, tax and depreciation and required the restating of some 2003 comparatives.
All market amortisation EBITDA shares are Imperial Tobacco best estimates based on the most Profit on ordinary activities before interest adjusted for goodwill appropriate independent data available.
MRO or RMO Earnings per share EPS adjusted Mobile Retail Outlet or Registered Mobile Operator includes crossAs for Earnings per share but adjusted to exclude amortisation channel ferries, Eurotunnel shop, French and Spanish airports.
MYO Make your own: loose tobacco which is made into a cigarette Earnings per share basic using a tubing machine and filter tubes.
Profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Earnings per share diluted Profit for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by OTP the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period, Other tobacco products rolling tobacco, rolling papers, cigars, plus the dilutive effect of the exercise of all employee share options.
Effective tax rate Price earnings multiple The tax charge as a percentage of profit before tax.
This is the share price divided by the diluted adjusted EPS.
Enterprise value EV Price earnings P E ratio Market capitalisation plus net debt.
The share price divided by earnings per share.
This measures the number of years earnings required to equal the current market EV EBITDA value.
Private label An exclusive retailer or distributor brand usually in the low-value Exceptional item segment.
RYO Ex-dividend date Loose tobacco which is used with rolling papers to hand make The date from which shares are traded without the right to the next cigarettes.
Weighted Average Cost of Capital WACC IMT.
L The weighted average of the costs of various types of capital that Symbol used on the London Stock Exchange for Imperial Tobacco finance a company or a project.
Capital would generally include a Group PLC shares.
mix of debt and equity.. 68 The cover and pages 1 36 are printed on Mega Matt.
Mega Matt is a coated paper which has Nordic Swan environmental accreditation.
It comprises 50% totally chlorine free pulps from plantation forests, generally using forest thinnings, offcuts and surplus timber, and 50% recycled and fide-inked fibres from pre-consumer and post-consumer waste, without using chlorine in the fide-inking process.
pages 37 68 are printed on Storafine.
Storafine is manufactured by StoraEnso in Sweden and also has the Nordic Swan environmental accreditation.
The fibre used is 100% chlorine free made by StoraCell in Sweden.
It is made from waste of the timber industry and forest thinnings from plantation forests.
Designed and produced by MAGEE Printed by CTD Printers Ltd ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 2004 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC ANNUAL REVIEW AND SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT IMPERIAL TOBACCO, the worlds fourth 2004 largest international tobacco company, manufactures, markets and sells a comprehensive range of cigarettes, tobaccos, rolling papers and cigars.
2000: The Baelen Group, The EFKA Group, Mayfair Vending 1999: Brand acquisition in Australia and New Zealand 1998: Van Nelle Tabak 1997: Rizla Proven integration record Synergies achieved or exceeded
