Accounting Policies The accounts have been prepared in accordance with Accounting Standards currently applicable in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies have been applied consistently with the exception of the changes arising on the adoption of new Accounting Standards in the year, as set out below.
Basis of accounting The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention.
Changes in accounting policy and presentation The balance sheet at 30 September 2003 has been restated following the adoption of UITF Abstract 17 Revised 2003 Employee Share Schemes and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts as issued by the Accounting Standards Board ASB.
Shares held by the Employee and Executive Benefit Trusts, previously shown in the balance sheet as fixed asset investments, are now required to be shown as a deduction from shareholders funds.
The cost of employee share schemes is charged to the profit and loss account using the quoted market price of shares at the date of grant less the exercise price of the share options granted.
The charge is accrued over the vesting period of the shares.
The impact was to reduce fixed assets investments by 36m at 30 September 2003, and increase the deficit in the profit and loss account reserve by a corresponding amount.
The consolidated cash flow statement has been restated to reflect the reallocation of the cash payments relating to the purchase of shares from Capital expenditure and financial investment to Financing.
The consolidated profit and loss accounts for the years ended 30 September 2003 and 28 September 2002 have not been restated as the effect in any one period is not material.
The impact of the change in accounting policy in the year to 30 September 2004 on Group profit after tax is not material.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate the audited accounts of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over which the Group has the power to control the entitys financial and operating policies.
There are no unconsolidated subsidiary undertakings.
The results of businesses are included from the effective date of acquisition and businesses sold are included up to the date of disposal.
The principal operating subsidiary undertakings are listed on pages 102 and 103.
US filing and corresponding amounts The financial statements incorporate additional financial information which will be incorporated in the Companys US Form 20-F filing requirements.
The information disclosed in these financial statements includes three year profit and loss account and cash flow statement information.
Intangible fixed assets goodwill Businesses acquired have been dealt with in the consolidated accounts using acquisition accounting.
Upon the acquisition of a business, the fair values that reflect the condition at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Adjustments are also made to bring the accounting policies of the businesses acquired into alignment with those of the Group.
Where the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is treated as goodwill.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions made on or after 27 September 1998 is capitalised and amortised on a straight line basis over its useful economic life, a period not exceeding 20 years.
Previously all goodwill was written off against reserves in the period of acquisition.
On the subsequent disposal or termination of a previously acquired business, the profit or loss on disposal is determined after including the attributable amount of purchased goodwill previously written off to reserves.
Intangible fixed assets trade marks and licences Trade marks and licences are included at cost and amortised in annual equal instalments over a period which does not exceed 20 years.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are shown at cost less depreciation.
No depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Depreciation of other fixed assets is calculated to write off their cost less residual values over their expected useful lives as follows: Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 years straight line Plant and equipment 2 to 20 years straight line reducing balance Fixtures and motor vehicles 2 to 14 years straight line Impairment of fixed assets Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Value in use is based on the present value of the future cash flows relating to the asset.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows income generating units.. 61 Accounting Policies Impairment losses relating to tangible fixed assets are reversed where the recoverable amount increases because of a change in economic conditions or in the expected use of the asset.
Impairment losses in respect of intangible fixed assets are reversed where subsequent external events clearly and demonstrably reverse the effects of the event giving rise to the impairment in a way that was not foreseen in the original impairment calculation or where the intangible asset has a readily ascertainable market value and the market value has increased to an amount higher than the impaired carrying value.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and an allocation of production overheads based on the normal level of activity.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on all material timing differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised where their recovery is considered more likely than not.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
Turnover Turnover represents the amount charged to customers in respect of goods sold, services supplied and licence fees, exclusive of applicable sales taxes or equivalents but inclusive of excise duty.
Sales of goods are recognised when risks and rewards of ownership pass to the customer and when collectibility of the related receivables is reasonably assured.
Sales of services which include fees for distributing third party products are recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
Licence fees are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction, or where forward foreign exchange contracts have been arranged, at the contracted rates.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, where a contracted rate does not apply, are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
The profit and loss accounts of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the average rate of exchange ruling during the year.
The balance sheets of the overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Differences between the profit and loss accounts translated at average rates and at balance sheet rates are shown as a movement in reserves and in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
The Groups significant overseas equity investments are hedged by borrowings in the currencies in which those assets are denominated.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of the overseas net investments, including goodwill, less exchange differences on the borrowings, to the extent that they finance those investments, are taken to reserves through the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Other exchange gains and losses are dealt with in the profit and loss account.
Interest Interest payable and receivable is recognised in the profit and loss account on an accruals basis.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used to manage exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks and are not used for trading purposes.
Instruments qualify for hedge accounting where the underlying asset or liability has characteristics which can be directly related to the instrument transacted.
Interest differentials arising under interest rate swaps are taken to the profit and loss account on an accruals basis and included within interest payable or receivable.
Any premiums or discounts received or paid are amortised over the lives of the instruments.
The principal amounts due to be exchanged at maturity under cross-currency swaps are revalued at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date and included within borrowings.
Where forward foreign exchange contracts are used to hedge future transactions, gains and losses are not recognised until the transactions occur.
The Group excludes all short-term debtors and creditors from its derivatives and financial instrument disclosures, other than those on currency risks relating to monetary assets and liabilities.
Pension costs The cost of providing pensions is charged to the profit and loss account over employees service lives.
Variances arising from actuarial valuations are charged or credited to profit over the estimated remaining service lives of the employees to the extent that any resulting credit does not exceed the regular cost.
Leases Rental costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.. 62
