Principal Subsidiaries The principal wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Group held throughout the year, all of which are unlisted, are shown below: Registered in England and Wales Name Principal activity Imperial Tobacco Limited Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the UK Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC Finance company Imperial Tobacco Holdings Limited Holding investments in subsidiary companies Imperial Tobacco International Limited Export and marketing of tobacco products Rizla UK Limited Manufacture of rolling papers in the UK Incorporated overseas Name and country of incorporation Principal activity Badische Tabakmanufaktur Roth-Hndle GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany Dunkerquoise des Blends S. A. France Tobacco processing Ets.
L. Lacroix Fils N. V. Rizla Belgium N. V., Belgium Manufacture of rolling papers and accessories and marketing and sale of tobacco products in Belgium Imperial Tobacco Asia Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Marketing and sale of tobacco products in South East Asia Imperial Tobacco Australia Limited, Australia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Australia Imperial Tobacco Magyarorszg Dohnyforgalmaz kft, Hungary Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Hungary Imperial Tobacco New Zealand Limited, New Zealand Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in New Zealand Imperial Tobacco Overseas B. V. The Netherlands Finance company Imperial Tobacco Slovakia, Slovakia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Slovak Republic John Player & Sons Limited, Republic of Ireland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Republic of Ireland John Player S. A. Spain Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Spain Reemtsma Cigarettenfabriken GmbH, Germany Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Germany and export of tobacco products Reemtsma International Asia Services Limited, China Marketing of tobacco products in China Reemtsma International Praha spol s. r. o. Czech Republic Marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Czech Republic Reemtsma Kiev Tyutyunova Fabrika, The Ukraine Manufacture of cigarettes in The Ukraine Reemtsma Ukraine, The Ukraine Marketing and sale of tobacco products in The Ukraine OOO Reemtsma Volga Tabakfabrik, Russia Manufacture of tobacco products in Russia OOO Reemtsma, Russia Marketing and sale of tobacco products in Russia Tobaccor S. A.
S, France Holding investments in subsidiary companies Van Nelle Tabak Nederland B. V. The Netherlands Manufacture of roll your own and pipe tobaccos and marketing and sale of tobacco products in The Netherlands Van Nelle Tobacco International Holdings B. V. The Netherlands Sale of roll your own and pipe tobaccos.
102 Principal Subsidiaries The principal partly-owned subsidiaries of the Group, held throughout the year, are shown below.
All are unlisted unless otherwise indicated: Incorporated overseas Percentage Name and country of incorporation Principal activity owned Reemtsma Kyrgyzstan AO, Kyrgyzstan Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Kyrgyzstan 98.7 Imperial Tobacco Polska S. A. Poland Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Poland 96 1 Socit Ivoirienne des Tabacs S. A. Cte dIvoire Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in the Ivory Coast 74 Tobacna Ljubljana d. o. o. Slovenia Manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products in Slovenia 76 1 Listed on the Cte dIvoire Stock Exchange In addition the Group also wholly owns the following partnerships: Name and country Principal activity Imperial Tobacco EFKA GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Manufacture of tubes in Germany Principal place of business: Industriestrasse 6, Postfach 1257, D-78636 Trossingen, Germany.
Reemtsma Holding GmbH & Co. KG, Germany Holding investments in subsidiary companies Principal place of business: Max-Born-Strasse 4, 22761 Hamburg, Germany.
The percentage of issued share capital held by immediate parent and the effective voting rights of the Group are the same, with the exception of Tobacna Ljubljana d. o. o. in which the Group holds 99% of the voting rights.
The consolidated Group financial statements include all the subsidiary undertakings and entities shown above.
With the exception of Imperial Tobacco Holdings Limited, which is wholly owned by the Company, none of the shares in the subsidiaries are held by the Company.
A full list of subsidiaries is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.. 103
