42 InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 Accounting policies BASIS OF PREPARATION FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION The Group profit and loss account has been prepared by reference Goodwill Any excess of purchase consideration for an acquired to Format 1 as set out in Schedule 4 of the Companies Act 1985. business over the fair value attributed to its separately identifiable This is considered more appropriate to the Group post Separation assets and liabilities represents goodwill.
Goodwill is capitalised than the format used in previous years.
Prior year comparatives as an intangible asset.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to have been restated on a consistent basis.
30 September 1998 was eliminated against reserves.
To the extent that goodwill denominated in foreign currencies continues BASIS OF ACCOUNTING to have value, it is translated into sterling at each balance sheet The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost date and any movements are accounted for as set out under convention as modified by the revaluation of certain tangible fixed foreign currencies above.
On disposal of a business, any assets.
They have been drawn up to comply with applicable goodwill relating to the business and previously eliminated against accounting standards.
reserves, is taken into account in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Other intangible assets On acquisition of a business, no value is The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements attributed to other intangible assets which cannot be separately of the parent company and its subsidiary undertakings.
The identified and reliably measured.
No value is attributed to results of those businesses acquired or disposed of during the internally generated intangible assets.
period are consolidated for the period during which they were under the Groups dominant influence.
Tangible assets Freehold and leasehold land and buildings are stated at cost, or valuation, less depreciation.
All other fixed FOREIGN CURRENCIES assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
Repairs and Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
rates ruling on the dates of the transactions, adjusted for the When implementing FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets in the year to effects of any hedging arrangements.
Assets and liabilities 30 September 2000, the Group did not adopt a policy of revaluing denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at properties.
The transitional rules of FRS 15 were applied so that the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
the carrying values of properties include an element resulting from The results of overseas operations are translated into sterling at previous valuations.
weighted average rates of exchange for the period.
Exchange Revaluation Surpluses or deficits arising from previous differences arising from the retranslation of opening net assets professional valuations of properties, realised on the disposal of including any goodwill previously eliminated against reserves an asset, are transferred from the revaluation reserve to the profit denominated in foreign currencies and foreign currency and loss account reserve.
borrowings and currency swap agreements used to hedge those assets are taken directly to reserves.
All other exchange Impairment Any impairment arising on an income-generating unit, differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
other than an impairment which represents a consumption of economic benefits, is eliminated against any specific revaluation TREASURY INSTRUMENTS reserve relating to the impaired assets in that income-generating Net interest arising on interest rate agreements is taken to the unit with any excess being charged to the profit and loss account.
Depreciation and amortisation Goodwill and other intangible Premiums payable on interest rate agreements are charged to the assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives, generally profit and loss account over the term of the relevant agreements.
Currency swap agreements are retranslated at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date with the net amount being included in either current asset investments or borrowings.
Interest payable or receivable arising from currency swap agreements is taken to the profit and loss account on a gross basis over the term of the relevant agreements.
Gains or losses arising on forward exchange contracts are taken to the profit and loss account in line with the transactions they are hedging.
InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 43 Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other tangible fixed assets Accumulated differences between the amount charged to the are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful profit and loss account and the payments made to the pension lives, namely: plans are treated as either prepayments or other provisions for liabilities and charges in the balance sheet.
Freehold buildings 50 years The additional disclosures required by the transitional Leasehold buildings lesser of unexpired arrangements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits are given in term of lease and 50 years note 5 to the financial statements.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-25 years SELF INSURANCE Plant and machinery 4-20 years The Group is self insured for various levels of general liability, All depreciation and amortisation is charged on a straight line workers compensation and employee medical and dental basis.
Insurance liabilities include projected settlements for known and incurred, but not reported claims.
Investments Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less any Projected settlements are estimated based on historical trends provision for diminution in value.
DEFERRED TAXATION STOCKS Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised, subject to Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
certain exceptions, in respect of all material timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses in the financial TRADE DEBTORS statements and for tax purposes.
Trade debtors are recognised and carried at original amount less Those timing differences recognised include accelerated capital an allowance for any doubtful accounts.
An allowance for doubtful allowances, unrelieved tax losses and short-term timing accounts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer differences.
Timing differences not recognised include those probable.
relating to the revaluation of fixed assets in the absence of a commitment to sell the assets, the gain on sale of assets rolled REVENUE RECOGNITION into replacement assets and the distribution of profits from Revenue is derived from the following sources: owned and leased overseas subsidiaries in the absence of any commitment by the properties: management fees: franchise fees: sale of soft drinks subsidiary to make the distribution.
and other revenues which are ancillary to the Groups operations.
Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
normal course of business and is recognised when services have Deferred tax is calculated on a non-discounted basis at the tax been rendered.
The following is a description of the composition rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing of revenues of the Group.
differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or Owned and leased derived from hotel operations, including the substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from a worldwide network of owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups LEASES brand names.
Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account and food and beverage is sold.
on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, PENSIONS usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
The Group continues to account for pensions in accordance with Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a SSAP 24 Accounting for pension costs.
The regular cost of percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is providing pensions to current employees is charged to the profit generally based on the hotels profitability.
Revenue is recognised and loss account over the average expected service life of those in accordance with the contract.
Variations in regular pension cost are amortised over Franchise fees received in connection with the franchise of the the average expected service life of current employees on a Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the straight line basis.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue.
Revenue is recognised when earned.
44 InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 Accounting policies Soft Drinks sales excluding VAT and similar taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the normal course of business.
Revenue is recognised when sales are made.
LOYALTY PROGRAMME The hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, enables members to earn points, funded through hotel assessments, during each stay at an InterContinental Hotels Group hotel and redeem points at a later date for free accommodation or other benefits.
The future redemption liability is included in creditors less than, and greater than, one year and is estimated using actuarial methods which estimate eventual redemption rates and points values.
USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
GLOSSARY Additional information concerning terms used in these financial statements can be found in the glossary on page 76.
