14 InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 International financial reporting information The Group will be required to produce its first set of audited In accordance with IFRS 1, the Group is entitled to a number of financial statements in line with International Financial Reporting voluntary and mandatory exemptions from full restatement, which Standards IFRS for the year ending 31 December 2005.
This have been adopted as follows: will require an opening balance sheet to be prepared under IFRS as at 1 January 2004, and a full profit and loss account, balance Business combinations The basis of accounting for pre-transition sheet and cash flow statement for the year ended 31 December combinations under UK GAAP has not been revisited.
The initial 2004 for comparative purposes.
carrying amount of assets and liabilities acquired in such business combinations is deemed to be equivalent to cost.
The transition to IFRS reporting will result in a number of changes in the presentation of reported financial statements, notes thereto Property, plant and equipment The Group has elected to retain and accounting principles.
UK GAAP carrying values of freehold and leasehold hotels including revaluations as deemed cost at transition.
Historically, the Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Employee benefits The cumulative actuarial gains and losses on the United Kingdom UK GAAP.
The following explanatory notes defined benefit pension schemes and similar post-retirement and reconciliations describe the differences between IFRS and benefits at transition date have been recognised in full in equity.
UK GAAP reporting for the financial year 2004 as well as for the Foreign currencies The Group has elected not to recognise IFRS opening balance sheet at 1 January 2004.
The comparative separately cumulative foreign exchange movements up to the figures are presented in accordance with UK GAAP, and are transition date, and from 1 January 2004 onwards, to recognise identical to the full year information disclosed previously.
foreign exchange differences on the retranslation of foreign The following financial information should be read in conjunction subsidiaries in a separate reserve within equity.
with IFRS accounting policies below which describe the IFRS Share-based payments IFRS 2 Share-based Payment has been policies followed by the Group.
applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 The effects of the transition are explained on the following pages that had not vested at 1 January 2005. which include balance sheet reconciliations at the date of NEW ACCOUNTING POLICIES transition and at 31 December 2004 and a reconciliation of the The Group has adopted the transitional requirements of IFRS 5 profit and loss account for the year ending 31 December 2004.
Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations and IFRS 2 Share-based Payment from 1 January 2004.
IFRS accounting policies BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements BASIS OF ACCOUNTING of the Company and entities controlled by the Company.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are consolidated for the period during which they were under the The financial statements are prepared on an historic cost basis, Groups control.
except for certain items of property, plant and equipment held at deemed cost under the transitional rules of IFRS.
INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES The principle IFRS accounting policies of the Group are set out An associate is an entity over which the Group has the ability to below.
exercise significant influence, but not control, through participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
FIRST TIME ADOPTION OF IFRS Associates are accounted for using the equity method, unless the The Group has adopted IFRS from 1 January 2004 date of investment is held for sale see below.
Using the equity method, transition with the exception of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: the Groups investment is recorded at cost adjusted by the Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Groups share of post acquisition profits and losses.
Recognition and Measurement, which are adopted with effect from 1 January 2005 in accordance with the requirements of ASSETS HELD FOR SALE IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale when their Standards.
carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction, rather than continuing use, and a sale is highly probable.
InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 15 Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of Under IAS 39 and UK GAAP, finance charges including issue carrying amount at designation and fair value less costs to sell.
costs are charged to the profit and loss account using an effective interest rate method.
Finance costs not settled in the Depreciation is not charged against tangible assets classified period are included within the outstanding loan balance.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging Under IFRS, nonFOREIGN CURRENCIES hedging derivatives and other treasury instruments are carried Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange on the balance sheet at fair value.
Movements in fair value are rates ruling on the dates of the transactions.
Assets and liabilities recognised in the profit and loss account.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted for the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
in line with the nature of the hedging arrangement.
Documentation The results of foreign operations are translated into sterling at outlining the measurement and effectiveness of a hedging weighted average rates of exchange for the period.
arrangement is maintained throughout the life of the hedge relationship.
Any ineffective element of a hedge arrangement Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of opening is recognised in the profit and loss account.
net assets and the net result for the year denominated in foreign currencies are transferred to the Groups translation reserve GOODWILL within equity.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit Goodwill arises on consolidation as the excess of the cost of and loss account.
acquisition over the fair value at the date of acquisition of assets Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity is treated acquired of a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled entity.
as an asset of that foreign operation and is translated into sterling Goodwill is recognised as an asset and tested annually for at the relevant closing rate.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Negative goodwill is recognised immediately in the profit and The Group has adopted both IAS 32 Financial Instruments: loss account.
Disclosure and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 30 September 1998 was Recognition and Measurement from 1 January 2005. eliminated against shareholders funds under UK GAAP: it has not Under the transition rules of IFRS 1, IAS 32 and IAS 39 are not been reinstated.
On disposal of a business, any such goodwill applied to comparative balances: in 2005, comparative balances relating to the business will not be taken into account in will be presented in accordance with UK GAAP.
determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Trade debtors Trade debtors are recorded at their original amount INTANGIBLE ASSETS less an allowance for any doubtful accounts.
Acquired through a business combination On acquisition of an An allowance for doubtful accounts is made when collection of the entity, intangible assets which are separately identifiable and arise full amount is no longer considered probable.
from a legal or contractual right are recognised at fair value and amortised on a straight line basis over a period appropriate to the Investments On adoption of IAS 39 non-current investments are type of asset.
classified as available for sale and held at fair value.
Gains and losses from fair value changes are recognised within equity.
Other intangible assets Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure Impairment losses are recognised within the profit and loss management contracts and franchise agreements are capitalised account.
and amortised over the shorter of the contracted period and 10 years.
Until 1 January 2005, such investments were recorded in accordance with UK GAAP at cost less any provision for impairment.
Internally generated development costs are capitalised when forecast related revenues exceed attributable forecast Trade creditors Under both IAS 39 and UK GAAP, trade creditors development costs.
are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
In the circumstance of a hotel or other asset being sold to a Bank and other borrowings Under both IAS 39 subject to the purchaser who then enters into a management or franchise hedging policies outlined below and UK GAAP, borrowings are contract with the Group, this is accounted for as an exchange stated at proceeds received plus any unamortised issue costs.
of assets and the profit or loss on disposal is determined by comparing the net book value of the asset sold to the total consideration received, which includes an estimate of the fair value of the contract.
16 InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 International financial reporting information PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Freehold and leasehold land and buildings are stated at cost, regarded as probable that the deductible temporary differences except as allowed under the IFRS 1 transition rules, less can be utilised.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is depreciation and any impairment.
reassessed at each balance sheet date.
All other fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation and Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to impairment.
Borrowing costs are not capitalised.
Repairs and apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled.
maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
LEASES Under the transition rules of IFRS 1, the Group has elected to use Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss account previous UK GAAP carrying values, including revaluations, as on a straight line basis over the term of the lease.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
All other tangible fixed assets PENSIONS are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful Defined contribution plans Payments to defined contribution lives, namely: schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as they fall due.
Freehold buildings 50 years Defined benefit plans Any excess or shortfall of scheme assets, Leasehold buildings lesser of unexpired term measured at fair value, over scheme liabilities, measured using the of lease and 50 years projected unit credit method, is recognised in the balance sheet.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-25 years Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in reserves in the year Plant and machinery 4-20 years in which they arise.
All depreciation and amortisation is charged on a straight line basis.
Past service cost is recognised immediately when the related benefits have vested.
When benefits are not fully vested, these IMPAIRMENT costs are recognised on a straight line basis over the remaining At each balance sheet date the Group reviews all assets to vesting period.
determine if there are any indicators of impairment.
If indicators of impairment exist then the recoverable amount of an asset or Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years.
cash generating unit CGU is estimated.
SELF INSURANCE Where individual assets do not generate cash flows independent The Group is self insured for various levels of general liability, from other assets, the Group reviews the carrying value and workers compensation and employee medical and dental recoverable amount of a CGU.
This is the smallest group of assets coverage.
Insurance reserves include projected settlements for where independent cash flows are produced.
known and incurred but not reported claims.
Projected settlements Intangible assets with an indefinite life and goodwill are tested for are estimated based on historical trends and actuarial data.
impairment at least annually by comparing carrying values with recoverable amounts.
STOCKS Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is less than its Cost includes direct purchase costs and other overheads incurred carrying amount, the difference is recognised in the profit and in bringing these stocks to their present location and condition.
loss account as an impairment loss.
Cost is determined by a first-in, first-out method.
DEFERRED TAXATION Net realisable value represents estimated selling price less Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of marketing and selling costs.
all temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value of assets and liabilities.
Those temporary differences recognised REVENUE RECOGNITION include accelerated capital allowances, unrelieved tax losses, Revenue is derived from the following sources: owned and leased unremitted profits from overseas where the Group does not properties: management fees: franchise fees: sale of soft drinks control remittance, gains rolled over into replacement assets, and other revenues which are ancillary to the Groups operations.
gains on previously revalued properties and other short-term Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar temporary differences.
taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the normal course of business and recognised when services have been rendered.
The following is a description of the composition of revenues of the Group.
InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 17 Owned and leased revenue derived from hotel operations, SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 Sharea worldwide network of owned and leased hotels operated under based Payment the Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 to grants, the Groups brand names.
Revenue is recognised when rooms options and other equity instruments granted after 7 November are occupied and food and beverage is sold.
Management fees earned from hotels managed by the Group, The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
employees through incentive schemes and a Save As You Earn Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a SAYE scheme.
The fair value of these share-based payments percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period of generally based on the hotels profitability.
Revenue is recognised the equity instrument, based on the Groups best estimate of the in accordance with the contract.
number of shares that will vest.
Franchise fees received in connection with the franchise of the Fair value is based on option pricing models and the terms and Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with the conditions of the option schemes.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a percentage of room revenue.
Revenue is recognised when PROPOSED DIVIDEND earned.
Dividends of 81m 2003 86m were proposed before the balance sheet date.
Soft Drinks sales excluding VAT and similar taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the normal course of business.
Revenue is recognised when sales are made.
LOYALTY PROGRAMME The hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, enables members to earn points, funded through hotel assessments, during each stay at an InterContinental Hotels Group hotel and redeem points at a later date for free accommodation or other benefits.
The future redemption liability is included in creditors less than, and greater than, one year and is estimated using actuarial methods which estimate eventual redemption rates and points values.
USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than 90 days that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts repayable on demand are a component of cash equivalents.
18 InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 International financial reporting information Accounting policy differences between amortised over the average expected service life of current employees on a straight line basis.
Scheme assets and liabilities UK GAAP and International Financial are not recognised on the Groups balance sheet.
Reporting Standards IFRS Under IFRS, the cost of providing defined benefit retirement benefits is recognised over the service life of scheme members.
The Group financial statements are prepared in accordance with This cost is calculated by an independent qualified actuary, accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom based on estimates of long-term rates of return on scheme assets UK GAAP which differ from IFRS.
The significant differences, and discount rates on scheme liabilities.
as they apply to the Group, are summarised below.
Any excess or deficit of scheme assets over scheme liabilities is Assets held for sale Under UK GAAP there is no held for sale recorded as an asset or liability, respectively, in the Groups definition and no reclassification is required.
balance sheet to the extent that it does not relate to unrecognised actuarial gains and losses.
Under IFRS, assets are classified as held for sale when their value will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing Each year the scheme net assets or liabilities are adjusted for use, and management consider a sale to be highly probable.
actuarial gains and losses which are recognised directly in reserves.
Assets classified as held for sale are held at the lower of their carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation or Share-based payment Under IFRS, the fair value of all shareamortisation is charged on assets held for sale.
based payments is expensed over the vesting period of the related equity instruments, based on the Groups best estimate of Discontinued operations Under UK GAAP, operations are the number of shares that will vest.
classified as discontinued when the sale or termination of operations is completed before the earlier of three months after Fair value is determined by an option pricing model applied to year end or approval of the financial statements.
In addition, the all share-based payments granted after 7 November 2002. operations concerned must have a material effect on the nature Deferred taxation Under UK GAAP, deferred tax is provided on and focus of operations resulting in either a withdrawal from a all timing differences, subject to certain exceptions.
Accordingly, particular class of business or geographical market or a material deferred tax is not provided on revaluation gains and gains rolled reduction in turnover in a continuing market.
over into replacement assets unless there exists a binding Under IFRS, the results of operations arising from assets classified agreement for sale, nor on unremitted earnings of investments as held for sale are classified as discontinued operations when the except to the extent of accrued dividends or where there exists results relate to a separate line of business, or geographical area a binding agreement to distribute earnings.
of operations, or where there is a coordinated plan to dispose of Under IFRS, deferred tax is recognised on all temporary a separate line of business or geographical area of operations.
differences between the tax base and carrying value of assets Discontinued operations are shown as a separate figure, net of and liabilities, including those arising from revaluation of assets, tax, on the face of the profit and loss account.
on gains rolled over into replacement assets and on unremitted earnings of investments where the Group does not control the Goodwill Under UK GAAP, goodwill is amortised over 20 years timing of distributions.
and tested for impairment annually.
In addition, IFRS requires the tax base of assets and liabilities to Under IFRS, goodwill is subject to annual impairment testing and be determined by managements current intended use and the is not amortised.
intended manner of realisation of the asset or liability.
Impairment Under UK GAAP, impairment is measured for an Cash and cash equivalents Under UK GAAP, there is no income-generating unit when indicators of impairment exist.
assets are reviewed for indicators of impairment at the balance sheet date.
Under IFRS, cash equivalents are defined as short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of less than 90 days that are Under IFRS, all assets are reviewed for evidence of the existence readily convertible into a known amount of cash.
of impairment indicators at each reporting date.
Assets with an indefinite life such as goodwill are subject to impairment testing Dividends Under UK GAAP, dividends are recognised as an at least annually.
expense in the period in which they are declared.
Pension costs Under UK GAAP, the Group provides for the cost Under IFRS, dividends are recognised as an appropriation of of retirement benefits based upon a consistent percentage of reserves in the period in which they are approved.
employees pensionable pay as recommended by independent qualified actuaries.
Variations in regular pension costs are InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 19 Reconciliation of earnings under UK GAAP to IFRS for the year ended 31 December 2004 Operating profit before Earnings exceptional Exceptional Profit Minority available for Turnover items Interest Tax items after tax interest shareholders m m m m m m m m As reported under UK GAAP 2,204 331 22 50 68 327 28 299 Remove goodwill amortisation 10 1 9 1 8 Pension accounting adjustments 6 2 4 2 2 Share-based payment adjustments 4 3 1 1 Impairment of previously revalued assets 6 6 6 Depreciation adjustment of held for sale assets 15 5 10 10 Adjustment to provision for loss on disposal of operations 74 74 74 IFRS tax adjustments 5 6 1 1 Under IFRS 2,204 346 22 56 142 410 27 383 Continuing operations 1,602 228 22 18 118 306 27 279 Discontinued operations 602 118 38 24 104 104 Key indicators UK GAAP IFRS m m Net debt 1,116 1,116 EBITDA before exceptional items 529 519 Basic earnings per share 42.1p 53.9p Reconciliation of basic EPS to adjusted EPS Pence per ordinary m share Basic EPS under UK GAAP 299 42.1 Exclude exceptional items under UK GAAP 68 9.6 Adjusted EPS under UK GAAP 231 32.5 IFRS adjustments: Remove goodwill amortisation 10 1.4 Pension accounting adjustments 6 0.8 Share-based payment adjustments 4 0.6 Depreciation adjustment of held for sale assets 15 2.1 IFRS tax adjustments 6 0.8 Minority share of above adjustments 1 0.1 Adjusted EPS under IFRS 241 33.9 20 InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 International financial reporting information Reconciliation of UK GAAP balance sheet to IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 Non current Current Current Non current Minority assets assets liabilities liabilities interests Net assets Equity m m m m m m m As reported under UK GAAP 4,281 999 1,085 1,478 163 2,554 2,554 Reclassify proposed dividends 86 86 86 Pension accounting adjustments 47 131 57 121 121 Deferred tax adjustments 163 17 180 180 Reclassifications 30 30 Under IFRS at 1 January 2004 4,311 922 999 1,772 123 2,339 2,339 Reconciliation of UK GAAP balance sheet to IFRS balance sheet at 31 December 2004 Non current Current Current Non current Minority assets assets liabilities liabilities interests Net assets Equity m m m m m m m As reported under UK GAAP 4,017 757 1,013 1,634 150 1,977 1,977 Reclassify proposed dividends 81 81 81 Remove goodwill amortisation 10 1 9 9 Pension accounting adjustments 110 125 75 160 160 Deferred tax adjustments 134 22 156 156 Reclassify assets as held for sale 15 74 89 89 Reclassifications 31 31 Under IFRS at 31 December 2004 4,073 616 932 1,819 98 1,840 1,840 InterContinental Hotels Group 2004 21 Independent auditors report on the International financial reporting information Independent auditors report to InterContinental Hotels Group BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION PLC on the International financial reporting information We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Those We have audited the International financial reporting information Standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC the Company and its reasonable assurance about whether the preliminary IFRS financial subsidiaries together, the Group which comprises the statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes Reconciliation of earnings under UK GAAP to IFRS for the year examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and ended 31 December 2004, Reconciliation of UK GAAP balance disclosures in the opening balance sheet.
An audit also includes sheet to IFRS balance sheet at 1 January 2004 and the assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates Reconciliation of UK GAAP balance sheet to IFRS balance sheet made by management, as well as evaluating the overall at 31 December 2004, together with the related accounting presentation of the preliminary IFRS financial statements.
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with our engagement letter.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that EMPHASIS OF MATTER we might state to the Company those matters we are required to Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the fact that state to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the accounting policies note explains why there is a possibility the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume that the preliminary IFRS financial statements may require responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit adjustment before constituting the final IFRS financial statements.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Moreover, we draw attention to the fact that, under IFRS only a complete set of financial statements with comparative financial RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND information and explanatory notes can provide a fair presentation ERNST & YOUNG LLP of the Companys financial position, results of operations and These preliminary IFRS financial statements are the responsibility cash flows in accordance with IFRS.
of the Companys directors and have been prepared as part of the Companys conversion to IFRS.
They have been prepared in OPINION accordance with the basis set out in the accounting policies note, In our opinion, the preliminary IFRS financial statements for the which describes how IFRS has been applied under IFRS 1, including year ended 31 December 2004 have been prepared, in all material the assumptions management has made about the standards and respects, in accordance with the basis set out in the accounting interpretations expected to be effective, and the policies expected policies note, which describes how IFRS have been applied under to be adopted, when management prepares its first complete set IFRS 1, including the assumptions management has made about of IFRS financial statements as at 31 December 2005. the standards and interpretations expected to be effective, and the policies expected to be adopted, when management prepares its first Our responsibility is to express an independent opinion, based on complete set of IFRS financial statements as at 31 December 2005. our audit, on the preliminary IFRS financial statements.
We read the other information accompanying the preliminary IFRS financial Ernst & Young LLP statements and consider whether it is consistent with the London preliminary IFRS financial statements.
This other information 9 March 2005 comprises Accounting policy differences between UK GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the preliminary IFRS financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
