INTERNATIONAL POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Shareholder enquiries Corporate investor & media enquiries Shareholder services and If you have any queries on the following: Please contact: information Aarti Singhal transfer of shares: Annual General Meeting AGM Head of Communications The 2005 Annual General Meeting AGM will be change of name or address: International Power plc held on Tuesday 17 May 2005.
Further details will Senator House lost share certificates: be set out in the Notice of the AGM to be sent 85 Queen Victoria Street out in April 2005. lost or out-of-date dividend cheques and London EC4V 4DP.
payment of dividends directly into a bank or Tel: 020 7320 8681 Electronic proxy voting building society account: For the AGM you may, if you wish, register Website death of the registered holder of shares: the appointment of a proxy electronically The 2004 annual report and summary annual by logging on to the following website: receiving duplicate copies of this Report: report are available at www.
You will need your carries a wide range of other information on receiving the annual report in addition voting reference numbers the three 8-digit the Group.
to the summary annual report.
numbers shown on your Proxy Form.
Alternatively, if you have already registered Please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on Corporate social responsibility for a shareview portfolio with Lloyds TSB 0870 6003978 or write to them at Our annual corporate social responsibility report is Registrars, then log on to your portfolio The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex available on our website.
SEC reporting Additional information can be found The 20-F will be available on our website prior to on the Lloyds TSB website at Shareview 30 April 2005. www.
co. uk is a service offered by Lloyds TSB Registrars that enables you to check your Share dealing services holdings in many UK companies and helps you Lloyds TSB Registrars have in place a low-cost to organise your investments electronically.
If you share dealing service for both the purchase and have access to the internet you can register for sale of shares.
Commission on both sales and this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure purchases is 0.75% per transaction, subject to a and free by logging on to www.
This is a postal Once you have registered for a portfolio, you can service only.
For information on the low-cost also use this service to change your address details dealing service, or to obtain a dealing form, on line.
please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars on 0870 600 3978.
Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Information on the International Power corporate General enquiries ISA, which offers a tax-efficient way of holding Please contact: shares, can be obtained from the ISA manager, Stephen Ramsay The Share Centre on 01296 414144 or from Company Secretary International Powers website.
International Power plc Senator House 85 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4DP.
Tel: 020 7320 8706 Financial calendar Announcement of Q1 results 12 May 2005 Annual General Meeting 17 May 2005 Announcement of interim results for the period ended 30 June 2005 4 August 2005 Announcement of Q3 results 3 November 2005 110 GLOSSARY Glossary ABI Association of British Insurers, a body which, inter alia, sets standards of corporate governance on behalf of Insurance companies.
Availability A measure giving the proportion of electrical energy that was available during the year, after taking account of both planned and unplanned plant outages.
Bond Security that obligates the issuer International Power to make specified payments to the bondholder financial Institutions.
Brownfield Building a plant on a previously operational site.
CCGT Combined cycle gas turbine turbines, that are typically fuelled by natural gas, are used to drive generators and use exhaust gases to produce steam that in turn drives an additional turbine coupled to a generator.
Cogeneration The simultaneous generation of heat and electricity, typically where the need for both arises for industrial or commercial purposes.
Corridor approach Under this approach to pension plans, actuarial gains and losses are not recognised immediately.
Only when the cumulative gains or losses fall outside the corridor is a specified portion recognised in the income statement from the following year onwards.
The corridor is 10% of the present value of the pension rights accrued or of the fund assets at market value, if greater.
Debt capitalisation Net debt divided by the sum of the net debt and total equity.
HSE Health, safety and environment.
EPS Earnings per share, calculated by dividing the profit after interest, tax and minority interests by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
Generator nameplate The maximum output of a generator, under specific conditions designated by the manufacturer.
capacity installed Installed generator capacity is commonly expressed in megawatts MW and is usually indicated on a nameplate physically attached to the generator.
Greenfield Building a plant on a new site.
Hedge contracts A contract that gives protection against risks of future commodity price movements.
HUBCO The Hub Power Company.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
ISO 14001 The international standard of environment management systems.
LNG Liquified natural gas LTIP Long-term incentive plan Load factor The proportion of electricity actually sold, compared with the maximum possible sales of electricity at maximum net capacity.
KAPCO The Kot Addu Power Company.
Merchant market A merchant market is a deregulated market.
Merchant plant Our merchant plants operate in deregulated markets selling power into the traded market without long-term power purchase agreements PPAs.
MIGD Millions of imperial gallons per day.
MW Megawatt: one MW equals 1,000 kilowatts.
111 INTERNATIONAL POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2004 MWth One megawatt of thermal power.
National Allocation The Plan issued under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme that sets out how greenhouse Plan gas emission allowances will be allocated to affected industry sectors.
x Non-recourse debt Debt secured on an asset.
OCGT Open cycle gas turbine turbines, typically fuelled by gas or diesel oil, are used to drive the generators to produce electricity.
OHSAS 18011 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 18011.
A management system specification, developed by British Standards Institute, for health and safety which is compatible with ISO 9001:1994 Quality and ISO 14001:1996 Environmental management.
O&M Operations and maintenance, usually used in the context of operating and maintaining a power station.
Offtake agreement Power purchase agreement between International Power and its customer the offtaker whereby the customer takes the electricity generated by a power station.
PBIT Profit before interest and tax.
Peak load The maximum demand during a specified high demand period.
This may require use of plant for example pumped storage that is kept in reserve for peak periods.
Put To sell a security back to the issuer at a pre-determined price.
Recourse debt Debt secured by the Company.
Reserve margin The amount of plant reserve capacity above the systems peak electricity requirements.
Rights Issue The offer of new shares to shareholders pro-rata to their current holding, usually at a discounted price.
2 Spark spread The difference between the power price and fuel costs.
Tolling contract A form of long-term electricity contract where the buyer of the electricity also supplies the fuel and the generator provides the energy conversion services in the form of the plant and operational services required to change the energy in the fuel into electricity.
Trade investment A business entity over which the investor does not exercise significant influence.
UK GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the UK.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted in reaction to the highly publicised bankruptcies of Enron and WorldCom and is concerned with strictly enforcing the latest generally accepted accounting principles GAAP.
com Available on the website: investor presentations press releases share price information financial data and reports Registered Office International Power plc Senator House 85 Queen Victoria Street London EC4V 4DP Registered in England and Wales No: 2366963 This document is printed throughout using vegetablebased inks.
Cover and pp1-68 on Robert Horne Revive Special Silk: pp69-112 on Revive Uncoated.
Both stocks are produced at paper mills with environmental management systems that are ISO 14001 accredited.
Published by International Power plc www.
com Designed and produced by Natural www.
com Board photography by Orla Deevy Printed in the UK by Royle Corporate Print
