INTERNATIONAL POWER ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Additional information for US shareholders continued f Liquidated damages and associated damages Under UK GAAP, liquidated damages relating to amounts receivable from contractors in respect of the late commissioning of new power plants are recorded as income when they represent compensation for lost earnings.
This is offset by certain costs, including interest and costs associated with the rectification of the plant, which are expensed in the period in which liquidated damages are recorded as revenue.
Under US GAAP, this net amount is recorded as a reduction in the cost of the asset, regardless of the nature of the compensation.
These differences in the asset cost result in different levels of depreciation under UK and US GAAP.
Those receipts that relate to compensation for plants not achieving long-term contractual performance levels are recorded as a reduction in the cost of the assets under both UK and US GAAP.
g Insurance recovery Under UK GAAP, an insurance recovery has been recorded as a reduction in the cost of the relevant replaced assets on the balance sheet.
Under US GAAP, even though the insurance proceeds have been used to finance replacement parts the cost base in the balance sheet is not adjusted and the insurance receipt is recognised as a gain in the profit and loss.
h Derivatives and hedging activities Under UK GAAP, the Group recognises only derivatives of a speculative nature at fair value on the balance sheet with related gains and losses charged or credited to the profit and loss account.
Gains or losses on other derivative instruments are deferred until the hedged transactions actually occur.
Under US GAAP, the Group recognises all qualifying derivatives including certain derivatives embedded in other instruments at fair value on the balance sheet.
Gains and losses arising on derivatives that do not meet the US GAAP hedge accounting criteria, along with the accretion of the discounted value of debt where bifurcation is required, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Gains and losses on the Groups derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting are initially recognised in reserves to the extent that the hedge is effective and subsequently reclassified to the profit and loss as the hedged item impacts earnings.
Any ineffective element of these hedges is immediately recognised in earnings.
i Deferred finance costs For UK GAAP purposes an exceptional interest charge of 12 million has been recorded in 2003 in relation to the write off of deferred finance costs in respect of the ANP bank facility.
In 2004, costs incurred specifically to finalise the restructured debt were capitalised and are being amortised over the revised term of the debt.
Under US GAAP, the restructured debt was deemed an extension of the existing facility.
Accordingly, the unamortised deferred financing costs of the original facility continue to be capitalised and are being amortised over the revised term of the debt.
Additionally, in 2004 only costs paid directly to the lender could be capitalised.
These differences in deferred financing costs give rise to different amortisation charges.
j Disposal of investments Applying the accounting differences between UK and US GAAP can result in differences in the carrying values of net assets under UK and US GAAP.
As a consequence of this, different gains and losses may result on the subsequent disposal of the asset.
k Cash dividends Under UK GAAP, final ordinary cash dividends are recognised in the financial year in respect of which they are proposed by the Board of Directors.
Under US GAAP, such dividends are not recognised until they are formally declared by the Board of Directors.
l Deferred tax Under UK GAAP a deferred tax asset or liability is not recognised on the difference between the tax and book values of an asset or liability that existed at the date of a business combination.
Under US GAAP, deferred tax is recognised on this difference.
US GAAP is generally more prescriptive in its requirements for provisioning for potential tax exposures.
This can lead to differences in provision levels under UK and US GAAP.
m Stock compensation schemes Under UK GAAP, no cost is recorded for the Sharesave Scheme.
For other stock compensation schemes, the intrinsic value, being the difference between the book value of the shares before granting the options and the option price, is charged over the period of performance to which the award relates the vesting period.
Under US GAAP, the compensation expense for both schemes is measured as the difference between the market value of the shares at the date of grant and the option price and is spread over the same vesting period.
Share options which are exercisable if certain performance criteria are achieved are accounted for as variable awards and compensation expense is calculated at the end of each year by reference to the market price of the shares that are considered likely to vest and recognised over the vesting period.
