Accounting policies Basis of accounting The full cost of providing amendments to benefits in respect of past These accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention service is also charged to the operating profit or loss in the year.
The and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The expected return on the assets of the schemes during the year based policies are consistent with the previous year, except for the on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the financial year adoption of Financial Reporting Standard No 17: Retirement Benefits is included within other finance charges income FRS 17.
This also FRS 17, details of which can be found in note 6, and the adoption includes a charge representing the expected increase in liabilities of of the Amendment to Financial Reporting Standard No 5: Reporting the schemes during the year, arising from the liabilities of the the Substance of Transactions FRS 5 : Revenue recognition scheme being one year closer to payment.
Differences between Application Note G. A review of accounting policies following the actual and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised publication of Application Note G concluded that, in a small in the statement of recognised gains and losses in the year, together subsidiary, the segmentation of certain contracts did not fully with differences from changes in assumptions.
The net deficit on comply with the revised guidance and accordingly we have amended defined benefit pension schemes is reported on the balance sheet our accounting policy.
This has resulted in a prior year adjustment within the pension liability.
This is net of related deferred tax.
which reduces shareholders funds as at 31 March 2002 by The Company is unable to separately identify its share of the 23 million.
The impact on the profit and loss account for the underlying assets and liabilities of the Group defined benefit current and prior year is immaterial.
schemes in which it participates on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore accounts for these schemes as a defined contribution Basis of consolidation scheme, in accordance with the provisions of FRS 17.
The consolidated profit and loss account and balance sheet incorporate the accounts of Invensys plc and its subsidiary For defined contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit undertakings together with the Groups share of the results of and loss account in respect of pension costs is the contributions associated undertakings for the financial year to 31 March 2004. payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in The results of subsidiary undertakings sold or acquired during the the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals year are included in the profit and loss account up to, or from, or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Further information on pensions and post-retirement benefits is disclosed in note 6.
Foreign currencies The trading results of overseas subsidiaries and associated Goodwill undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates of On acquisition, the fair value of net assets is assessed and exchange ruling during the year.
The retranslation of the retained adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies of businesses earnings of overseas operations to closing rates is dealt with as a acquired into alignment with those of the Group.
The difference movement in reserves.
between the price paid for new interests and the fair value of Assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries, including goodwill, are identifiable net assets acquired is capitalised and amortised over its translated into sterling at closing rates of exchange ruling at the economic life, depending on the nature of the acquisition, for a balance sheet date and any exchange differences are taken to period not exceeding 20 years.
Any costs of integrating the acquired reserves.
business are taken to the profit and loss account.
Goodwill is currently amortised over a period of 12 to 20 years.
Currency differences arising from the translation at closing rate of the investment in subsidiaries and associated undertakings are taken Goodwill relating to acquisitions prior to 5 April 1998, the date that to reserves, together with exchange gains and losses arising on Financial Reporting Standard No 10: Goodwill and Intangible Assets foreign currency borrowings which finance a proportion of foreign FRS 10 became applicable to the Group, has been written off to currency investments.
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves is charged to the profit and loss account in so far as it relates to closures and All other exchange differences are included in the profit and loss disposals in the year.
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets Turnover Tangible fixed assets are depreciated to their residual values on a Turnover represents the invoiced value of goods supplied by the straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives at the following Group excluding inter-company transactions, sales by associated rates applied to original cost.
Turnover relating to long-term contracts represents the value of work performed during the year.
Freehold land Nil Freehold buildings 2 to 2.5% Research and development Leasehold properties Over the period of the lease Research and development expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Plant and machinery 7 to 35% Computer software systems 10 to 25% Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits The service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the year is charged to the operating profit or loss in the year.
34 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004 Impairment of tangible fixed assets and goodwill joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, Impairment reviews are undertaken if there are indications that fixed dividends have been accrued as receivable.
asset carrying values may not be recoverable.
The discount rate used iii Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is is the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted considered more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable for the particular risks associated with the income-generating profits from which the underlying timing differences can be unit concerned.
Leased assets Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and included in in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax tangible fixed assets at fair value.
Each asset is depreciated over the rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet shorter of the lease term or its useful life.
Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate within creditors.
The interest element of Derivative instruments the rental obligation is allocated to accounting periods during the The Group primarily uses forward foreign currency contracts and lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining interest rate swaps to manage its exposures to fluctuations in balance of the obligation for each accounting period.
Rentals under interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments are operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a accounted for as hedges when designated as hedges at the inception straight-line basis.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading purposes.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings Interest rate swaps Investments in subsidiary undertakings are held at cost less Interest rate swaps are revalued to fair value for disclosure in note provisions for impairment where a permanent diminution in value 28.
They are not shown on the consolidated balance sheet.
payments and receipts are accrued and included in net interest payable as an adjustment of the interest expense of the designated Stocks liability.
Realised gains and losses that occur from the early Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and termination of such instruments designated as a hedge are deferred estimated net realisable value.
Cost comprises the cost of raw and are amortised to interest expense over the period of the materials and an appropriate proportion of labour and overheads.
hedged position, to the extent that the originally designated liability Provision is made for obsolete and slow-moving items and for remains outstanding.
unrealised profits on items of inter-company manufacture.
oreign exchange swaps and forwards The net realisable value of long-term contracts has been arrived at Where foreign exchange swaps and forwards are used to adjust the having regard to estimated cost to completion.
A prudent level of currency profile of net borrowings which are matched to net assets profit attributable to the contract activity is taken up if the final of subsidiaries, realised and unrealised gains and losses are taken outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
On all contracts, directly to reserves.
Where foreign exchange forwards are used to full provision is made for any losses in the year in which they are hedge foreign currency trade debtors and creditors, realised and first foreseen.
unrealised gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Where the instrument is used to hedge against future Cash and borrowings transactions, gains and losses are not recognised until the Cash and short-term deposits at the balance sheet date are transaction occurs.
deducted from bank loans and overdrafts where formal rights of set-off exist.
'ebt instruments New borrowings are stated at net proceeds received after deduction Taxation of issue costs.
The issue costs of debt instruments are amortised at a Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that constant rate on the carrying amount of the related debt, over the have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where life of the instrument.
transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, in the International Financial Reporting Standards future, with the following exceptions: The Group is required under European legislation to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, also known as i Provision is made for tax on gains arising from fair value International Accounting Standards, in accounting periods beginning adjustments of fixed assets or gains on disposal of fixed assets that on or after 1 January 2005.
The Group has developed a transition have been rolled over into replacement assets only to the extent plan to manage the conversion to IFRS.
The adoption of IFRS may that, at the balance sheet date, there is a binding agreement to have a material impact on the Groups results and its financial dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made position: however, it is currently too early to quantify the impact where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet accurately.
The adoption of IFRS will first apply to the Groups date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2006. over into replacement assets and charged to tax only when the replacement assets are sold.
ii Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and 35 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2004
