Shareholder information Financial calendar annual and interim reports, documents relating to our annual general meeting and any other shareholder communications and will March Preliminary announcement for the year ended 31 December.
April Annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December.
normally be from our registrar, Capita Registrars.
E-mails will contain links to the appropriate website where the documents May Annual general meeting.
September Interim report for the half year ended 30 June.
Shareholders how to register Interim and preliminary announcements notified to the London Stock Exchange are available on the internet at www.
Copies If you are an AMEC shareholder and wish to receive electronic communications, you will need your investor code, which is printed of annual reports and accounts are also available upon written request from: in the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates and dividend tax vouchers.
WILink Hook Rise South, Surbiton, Surrey KT6 7LD You must register with Capita Registrars to receive electronic shareholder communications as follows: United Kingdom Payment of dividends 1 Go to www.
com plantatree 2 Follow the Shareholders how to register instructions Interim ordinary dividend announced in September and paid in January.
Final ordinary dividend announced in March and paid in July.
Once you confirm your details, Capita Registrars will e-mail you to verify the change.
Every time Capita Registrars receives a shareholder Shareholders who do not have dividend payments made directly into request to switch from paper to e-communications, we will ask their bank or building society accounts through the Bankers Automated Future Forests to plant a tree.
Clearing System BACS may do so by contacting the companys registrar, Capita Registrars.
You can opt to return to paper communications at any time by amending your details with Capita Registrars.
Shareholders who Dividend reinvestment plan decline to register for e-communications will continue to receive A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available for the convenience paper documents.
of shareholders who would prefer the company to utilise their dividends for the purchase, on their behalf, of additional shares of the company If you have any questions about electronic shareholder communications, contact Capita Registrars on 44 0 870 162 3100, visit their website instead of receiving cash dividends.
com or e-mail at ssd@capitaregistrars.
com The DRIP provides for shares to be purchased in the market on, or Electronic shareholder information as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter, any dividend payment date at the price then prevailing in the market.
Further details AMECs web site has a facility whereby shareholders can link to the companys registrar, Capita Registrars, via its web site in order of the DRIP may be obtained from: to gain access to general shareholder information as well as personal Capita Registrars shareholding details.
If you wish to access details of your personal The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU shareholding you will need your investor code, which is printed in United Kingdom the bottom right-hand corner of your AMEC share certificates and Tel: 44 0 870 162 3100 dividend tax vouchers.
com or visit the web site at To access these services: www.
com Electronic communications 1 Select the Investors home page at www.
com 2 Select Electronic communications from the main menu.
Electronic shareholder communication 3 Select the Electronic shareholder services link.
AMEC is working with Future Forests to reduce the impact of 4 Follow the instructions at the Capita Registrars website.
shareholder communications on the environment as well as cutting the cost of printing and distribution.
For every shareholder that elects If you have any questions about electronic shareholder information, contact Capita Registrars on 44 0 870 162 3100, visit their website to receive communications electronically, AMEC will plant a tree on their behalf at the Donkleywood Forest project in Northumberland.
com Further information on Future Forests and the Donkleywood project Registered office is available at www.
asp AMEC plc Sandiway House, Hartford, Northwich, Cheshire CW8 2YA Choosing electronic shareholder information means you will receive an e-mail every time any new shareholder information is published United Kingdom Registered in England No 1675285 instead of paper documents in the post.
E-mails will refer to AMEC AMEC plc annual report 2004 83
