01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:53 pm Page 37 Statement of accounting policies For the 52 weeks ended 25 January 2004 The principal Group accounting policies are set out below.
The policies have all Tangible fixed assets been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding accounting Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation.
provided using the straight-line method at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its expected useful economic Basis of accounting life, as follows: The Financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Freehold property 40 years Short leasehold property Period of lease Basis of consolidation Plant, fixtures and fittings 5-20 years The acquisition method of accounting has been adopted under which the results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the accounting Investments period are included in the Consolidated profit and loss account from the date Fixed asset investments are shown at cost, less provision for impairment.
of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Stocks In the Companys Financial statements, investments in subsidiary undertakings Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provision is are stated at cost less an amount representing goodwill written off to reserves made for obsolete, slow moving or damaged items where appropriate.
Provisions for temporary fluctuations in value are not made.
Only dividends received and receivable are credited to the Companys Profit and loss Taxation account.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that No Profit and loss account is presented for JJB Sports plc, as permitted by have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance sheet date.
Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have Goodwill originated but not reversed at the Balance sheet date where transactions or Goodwill consists of: events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the Balance sheet date.
Timing Goodwill purchased on the acquisition of unincorporated businesses which differences are differences between the Groups taxable profits and its results is stated at cost.
Amortisation has been provided to write off the cost of this as stated in the Financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and goodwill over its estimated useful life in equal annual installments based losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are upon the unexpired period of the property lease which relates to the recognised in the Financial statements.
business acquired: and A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings representing only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future the separately identifiable net assets acquired, together with associated reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions during and since the accounting period ended 31 January 1999 is being amortised over twenty years.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply Goodwill arising on acquisitions in earlier accounting periods was written in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based off against reserves on acquisition and would be charged or credited in the on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Profit and loss account on the subsequent disposal of the business to Balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
37 01681 JJB AR 2004 TEXT 25 5 04 3:53 pm Page 38 Statement of accounting policies continued For the 52 weeks ended 25 January 2004 Foreign currencies Pension costs Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local For defined benefit schemes, the amount charged to the Profit and loss currency at actual exchange rates at the date of the transaction.
account in respect of pension costs and other post-retirement benefits is the estimated regular cost of providing the benefits accrued in the accounting Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of period, adjusted to reflect variations from that cost.
The regular cost is the accounting period are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that calculated so that it represents a substantially level percentage of current and date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to future payroll.
Variations from regular cost are charged or credited to the Profit the date of the transaction is included as an exchange gain or loss in the Profit and loss account as a constant percentage of payroll over the estimated and loss account.
average remaining working life of scheme members.
Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held separately from those of the For the purpose of consolidation, the closing rate method is used, under which Group, in separate trustee administered funds.
Differences between the translation gains or losses are shown as a movement on reserves.
The Profit amounts charged to the Profit and loss account and amounts funded are and loss accounts of the foreign subsidiary undertakings are translated at the shown as either provisions or prepayments in the Balance sheet.
average exchange rate for the year.
For defined contribution schemes, the amount charged to the Profit and loss Operating leases account in respect of pension costs and other retirement benefits is the The Groups principal leased assets are land and buildings acquired under contributions payable in the accounting period.
Differences between operating leases which are generally subject to periodic rent reviews.
Rentals contributions payable in the accounting period and contributions actually paid under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease are shown as either accruals or prepayments on the balance sheet.
term, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
Any contributions receivable on acquiring short leasehold properties are credited to the Balance sheet and released to the Profit and loss account over the term of the lease.
Rent free periods are treated as deferred income and are released to profit over the period up to the first rent review.
The cost of other operating leases in respect of plant, fixtures and fittings is charged to operating profit on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Debt Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of issue costs.
The carrying amount is increased by the finance cost in respect of the accounting period and reduced by payments made in the period.
Turnover Turnover represents sales of goods through retail shops and income generated from the provision of sports and leisure facilities, excluding VAT, in the normal course of business.
Turnover generated from the provision of sports and leisure facilities is recorded in the period the facility is made available to members.
