Notes on the Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2004 31 Acquisitions continued Cascade Biochem Limited acquired in the year ended 31st March 2003 On 17th October 2002 the group acquired Cascade Biochem Limited.
During the year the fair values of some of the assets were adjusted by 0.2 million and the estimate of deferred consideration was reduced by 2.0 million.
Consequently, goodwill was reduced by 1.8 million.
VSF Resin & Varnish Limited acquired in the year ended 31st March 2003 On 11th February 2003 the group acquired VSF Resin & Varnish Limited.
During the year 0.1 million of deferred consideration was paid and the remaining deferred consideration was reduced by 0.2 million.
Consequently, goodwill was reduced by 0.2 million.
Pharm-Eco Laboratories, Inc. acquired in the year ended 31st March 2002 On 20th April 2001 the group acquired Pharm-Eco Laboratories, Inc. During the year the remaining outstanding escrow claim of 0.3 million was received.
Avocado Research Chemicals Limited acquired in the year ended 31st March 2002 On 7th February 2002 the group acquired Avocado Research Chemicals Limited.
During the year loan notes of 1.1 million were cancelled.
Consequently, goodwill was reduced by 1.1 million.
Johnson Matthey 68 Principal Subsidiary Undertakings and Associates Country of Country of incorporation incorporation Europe Asia S. A. Johnson Matthey N. V. Belgium Johnson Matthey Ceramics Jiangsu Co. Ltd. China Cascade Biochem Limited Eire Johnson Matthey Shanghai Chemicals Avocado Research Chemicals Limited England Limited China Cascade Biochem Limited England Johnson Matthey Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Limited 82.5% England Johnson Matthey India Private Limited 90% India Johnson Matthey S. A. France Johnson Matthey Chemicals India Private Johnson Matthey GmbH Germany Limited India Johnson Matthey Italia S. p. A. Italy Johnson Matthey Japan, Inc. USA Johnson Matthey BV Netherlands Johnson Matthey Sdn.
92% Malaysia Johnson Matthey Ceramica Portugal Lda Portugal Johnson Matthey Ceramics Malaysia Macfarlan Smith Limited Scotland Sdn.
Malaysia Johnson Matthey Ceramics S. A. Spain Almiberia S. A. Spain Svenska Emissionsteknik AB Sweden Johnson Matthey & Brandenberger AG Switzerland Africa Johnson Matthey Pty Limited South Africa Australasia North America AGR Matthey 20% Australia The Argent Insurance Co. Limited Bermuda Johnson Matthey Limited Canada South America Johnson Matthey fide Mexico, S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Johnson Matthey Argentina S. A. Argentina Johnson Matthey Inc. USA Johnson Matthey Ceramica Ltda Brazil Johnson Matthey Catalog Company Inc. USA Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells, Inc. 82.5% USA Pharm-Eco Laboratories, Inc. USA Except where otherwise stated, all companies are wholly owned.
Associate see note 14c on page 57.
Investments held directly by parent company.
All the subsidiary undertakings and associates are involved in the principal activities of the group.
