Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200489 Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held in the Boardroom, The Caledonian Hilton Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh on 29 April 2005 at 11am to transact the following business of the Company: 1.
To receive the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
To receive the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2004.
To re-elect Mr R G Parry, Mr T J Bowdler, Mr L F Hinton and Mr D Cammiade as Directors of the Company.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions of which number 6 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and numbers 7 and 8 will be proposed as Special Resolutions:- Ordinary Resolution 6.
That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined for the purpose of that section up to a maximum nominal amount of 9,510,699.
This authority shall expire on 29 April 2010 save that the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after it expires.
All previous general authorities under Section 80 of the Act shall cease to have effect.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 6 set out in the notice of this meeting, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to the provisions of Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority granted by that Resolution for cash, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: i to the allotment of such equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary Shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary Shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body in, any territory: and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,426,604.
This power shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2006 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Johnston Press plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 8.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares PROVIDED THAT: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 28,000,000: ii the maximum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased and the minimum price which may be paid for any such share is 10p in each case exclusive of associated expenses : and iii the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 12 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
By Order of the Board P R Cooper, ACA Secretary 53 Manor Place Edinburgh EH3 7EG 16 March 2005 Notes A In accordance with the Articles of Association, only holders of Ordinary Shares of the Company are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting.
B An Ordinary Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
C A form of proxy is enclosed for Ordinary Shareholders which, to be valid, must be completed in accordance with the instructions printed thereon and be lodged with the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
D The Register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company maintained under section 325 of the Companies Act 1985, will be available for reference at the place of the Meeting from 10.30am until its conclusion.
E Copies of all Directors Service Contracts will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the date of the Meeting and on that date at the place of the Meeting from 10.30am until its conclusion.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 200491 Advisors Solicitors Principal Bankers MacRoberts The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 152 Bath Street 36 St Andrew Square Glasgow Edinburgh G2 4TB EH2 2YB Ashurst Principal Clearing Bankers Broadwalk House Barclays Bank plc 5 Appold Street Luton Corporate Banking Centre London 1 Capability Green EC2A 2HA Luton LU1 3US Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP Lloyds TSB Scotland plc Chartered Accountants Henry Duncan House and Registered Auditors 120 George Street Saltire Court Edinburgh 20 Castle Terrace EH2 4LH Edinburgh EH1 2DB Stockbrokers Deutsche Bank AG London Investment Bankers Winchester House Citigroup 1 Great Winchester Street Citigroup Centre London 33 Canada Square EC2N 2DB Canary Wharf London Registrars E14 5LB Computershare Investor Services PLC Lochside House 7 Lochside Avenue Edinburgh Park Edinburgh EH12 9DJ This report is printed on Revive which contains a minimum of 75% post consumer waste and is produced to ISO 14001 accreditation Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.
co. uk Johnston Press plc 53 Manor Place Edinburgh EH3 7EG Tel: 0131 - 225 3361 Fax: 0131 - 225 4580 e-mail: enquiries@johnstonpress.
