Directors Report Year to 31 December 2004 - continued Close Company Status So far as the Directors are aware the Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Directors Liability As permitted by the Companies Act 1985, the Company has insurance cover for the Directors against liabilities in relation to the Group.
Electronic voting The Company has made provision for shareholders to vote electronically on the Resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting and full instructions are included on the Form of Proxy enclosed with this Annual Report.
Special Business Three resolutions are set out under special business in the notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
The purpose of the first, an Ordinary Resolution, is to renew the Directors authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 9,510,699 representing 33.33% of the existing issued share capital.
The Directors have, however, no current intention of exercising that authority.
The second, a Special Resolution, relates to the limited power given to the Directors to allot equity securities for cash representing up to 5% of the existing issued ordinary share capital, without the statutory pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 1985 applying.
This power, which accords with normal practice, expires on the date of this years Annual General Meeting.
The purpose of the Special Resolution is to renew this power for a further year.
The third item of special business is the renewal of the authority of the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares as permitted under its Articles of Association.
This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution seeking authority to make such purchases in the market.
The Directors have no immediate intention of using such authority and would do so only when they consider it to be in the best interests of shareholders generally and an improvement in earnings per share would result.
This Resolution specifies the maximum number of ordinary shares which may be purchased representing approximately 10% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital and the minimum and maximum prices at which they may be bought, reflecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and the Financial Services Authority.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board P R Cooper, ACA Secretary 53 Manor Place Edinburgh EH3 7EG 16 March 2005 Johnston Press plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
