and associated costs to be recognised when a product or service has been delivered or performed rather than at time of customer payment.
This affects only a small component of the Groups activities relating to installations and delivered products and impacts the timing of revenue and profit recognition only.
These changes have been accounted for as a prior period adjustment and previously reported figures have been restated accordingly.
UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts has also been adopted for the first time in these financial statements.
As required by the UITF, own shares held by the Kingfisher Employee Share Ownership Trust have been reclassified from fixed asset investments to a reduction in shareholders funds and the shares will be held at historical cost until the shares are disposed of.
Any profit or loss on the disposal of own shares is treated as a movement in reserves.
Had the Group not adopted the new standards in the current year, reported profit after tax would have been 4.8m higher.
The total impact of adopting the new policies on the year ended 1 February 2003 has been to increase reported profit after tax by 0.9m.
The total cumulative effect of all the prior year adjustments on the balance sheet as at 1 February 2003 is a decrease in reserves of 145.6m.
Further details of these changes are provided in note 1 under Changes in presentation of financial information.
International Financial Reporting Standards International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS become mandatory for the consolidated financial statements reported by all EU listed companies from 2005 onwards.
The areas of greatest impact for Kingfisher have been identified and work is underway to ensure the required compliance with IFRS for the 2005 6 financial year.
An impact assessment has identified that changes in accounting treatment for property, goodwill, pensions, deferred tax and financial instruments may have greatest impact on the Group.
Treasury risk management Kingfishers Treasury function is principally responsible for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves Treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage these risks.
Liquidity risk Treasury manages the Groups exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing the cash resources required to meet its business objectives and by promoting a diversity of funding sources and debt maturities.
During the year the Group extended the maturity of its debt by issuing 250m of bonds due 2014, and 500m of bonds due 2010 under the Groups 2,500m Medium-Term Note programme, the proceeds of which were principally used to repay short and medium-term bank borrowings.
Further details of the maturity of the Groups borrowings are provided in note 24.
In addition to the bond issues, the Group has access to various borrowing facilities, including a 540m committed revolving credit facility, maturing in 2007, and a 180m committed facility maturing in 2006, provided by a number of banks.
These facilities are available to be drawn to support the general corporate purposes of the Group including working capital requirements.
At 31 January 2004, the Group had undrawn committed bank facilities of 720m 2003: 579m.
Credit risk Credit risk is managed by setting a credit limit for each counterparty using published credit ratings.
The exposure against this limit is determined by taking account of the full value of deposits and a proportion of the value of derivative contracts.
Interest rate risk The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments.
At the year end 30% of the Groups long-term borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest 2003: 18%.
The interest risk profile changed following the issue of the 500m bond in October 2003, of which 200m was swapped to floating rate.
Currency risk The Groups principal currency exposures are to the euro and the US dollar.
The euro exposure is operational and arises through the retail businesses in France, Italy, Ireland and Spain.
Overall balance sheet euro translation exposure is substantially hedged by maintaining a proportion of the Groups debt in euro.
However, the translation of overseas earnings primarily euro into Sterling is not hedged.
In addition, the Group has a significant transaction exposure arising on products for re-sale purchased in US dollars.
Group policies require committed transactional exposures to be hedged.
Use and fair value of financial instruments In the normal course of business the Group uses financial instruments including derivative financial instruments which are held off balance sheet.
The main types of financial instruments used are medium-term notes, loans and deposits, interest rate derivative contracts, cross currency interest rate swaps, spot and forward currency contracts, and currency options.
The fair value is defined as the amount for which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an at arms length transaction between informed and willing parties.
Listed instruments are shown at their market price, and the fair value of other financial instruments is calculated by discounting their future cash flows at market rates.
Short-term financial instruments are assumed to have a fair value equal to their book value.
22 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED
