settlement of the remaining part of the swap contract at demerger date.
This has been offset through reserves against the gain arising on the repayment by Kesa Electricals of euro denominated loans at the date of demerger.
The cash cost of the exceptional financing charges, shown in the consolidated cash flow for the year, was 111.2m, comprising the 83.1m loss on the foreign exchange contract, the 27.7m cost of the debt restructuring and a further 0.4m of other costs.
The gain of 23.9m on the associated interest rate swap was received in cash shortly after the year end.
Other exceptional items Operating exceptional items include 9.8m for the costs of restructuring the Kingfisher plc head office following the demerger of Kesa Electricals and additional costs relating to the integration of the head offices in London and Lille.
In addition, a further 5.3m of incremental internal costs directly attributable to the demerger were incurred during the year.
Non-operating exceptionals include 43.2m of external costs, principally professional advisors and financing commitment fees directly attributable to the demerger of Kesa Electricals, and a charge of 58.3m in relation to the loss on sale or termination of the non-core home improvement operations as discussed above.
Exceptional amounts written off fixed asset investments of 6.3m relate to the Groups investment in the World Wide Retail Exchange, a company providing an independent online e-marketplace for products and services.
These exceptional items are fully described in notes 3 and 4 to the accounts.
Taxation The effective overall tax rate on profit has increased from 44.9% in 2003 to 46.3%, which exceeds the UK statutory rate of 30% primarily as a result of the exceptional items charged in the current year and previous years, most of which do not qualify for tax relief.
The effective tax rate on profit for continuing operations before exceptional items and acquisition goodwill amortisation excluding prior year adjustments is 31.6% compared to 32.0% in 2003.
An exceptional tax charge of 98.5m represents tax paid to the French tax authorities as a consequence of the demerger.
The Group has initiated proceedings for the recovery of the tax paid and, although these proceedings may take some time to be resolved, considers that its risk of being ultimately liable for this amount is low.
The Group has also released 75.2m of tax provisions in respect of prior year liabilities which have either been agreed with the relevant tax authorities, or where the likelihood of any liability arising is now considered to be remote.
This has been recorded as an exceptional tax credit in continuing operations in the year.
Dividend The final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2004 will be paid on 11 June 2004 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 2 April 2004, subject to approval of shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting, to be held on 3 June 2004.
A scrip dividend alternative will be offered to shareholders.
Pensions The Group continues to account for pension costs on the basis of the requirements of SSAP 24 and provides the disclosures regarding the FRS 17 valuation of the Kingfisher defined benefit pension Scheme the Scheme net assets and liabilities.
At the start of the year, the FRS 17 valuation for the Scheme showed a deficit, net of deferred tax, of 188m.
The assets in the Scheme have increased by 127m during the year.
However, due mainly to a fall in the discount rate in real terms as inflation expectations rose, the corresponding liabilities increased by 129m.
At the end of the year, the FRS 17 valuation for the Scheme showed a deficit, net of deferred tax, of 189m, being approximately 157m attributable to the Group and 32m to Kesa Electricals.
Under the terms of the Kesa Electricals demerger, the assets and liabilities associated with Kesa Electricals employees are to be transferred to a new Kesa Electricals scheme after they cease to participate in the Kingfisher Pension Scheme on 31 March 2004.
In January 2004 the Group announced to employees changes to the Kingfisher UK schemes, the effect of which is to close the defined benefit section of the Scheme to new members from 1 April 2004.
With effect from that date, new employees will become eligible to join the new defined contribution section of the Scheme.
Through a process of individual and store based communications, all existing UK employees were given the opportunity to choose the type and level of pension provision they would receive from 1 April 2004.
Under the process each employee was invited to make a positive decision to participate either in the defined benefits section or the defined contribution section of the Scheme, or not participate in the Scheme for pension benefits.
As a result of these changes, and the separation of Kesa Electricals, the next formal valuation of the Scheme will be made on 31 March 2004 when the Kesa Electricals members leave the Scheme.
In advance of the results of the new valuation, the Group will be increasing its contributions by approximately 6% to 20% of pensionable salaries for defined benefit section members, as from 1 April 2004.
Accounting changes The Group has adopted Application Note G of Financial Reporting Standard 5 Revenue Recognition and early adopted Urgent Issues Task Force 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
Application Note G of FRS 5 requires a provision for customer returns.
A provision has now been made, representing the Groups estimate of the amount of product sold during the year which will be returned in the following year.
The new Application Note also requires turnover Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 21
