IFRS contents Preliminary International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS financial statements 57 introduction 58 accounting policies 60 pro forma accounting policies reconciliations of UK GAAP and IFRS: 61 profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2004 62 balance sheet as at 31 December 2004 63 balance sheet as at 1 January 2004 64 profit and loss account for the six months ended 30 June 2004 65 balance sheet as at 30 June 2004 66 independent auditors report to Hilton Group plc on the preliminary IFRS financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 67 independent review report to Hilton Group plc on the preliminary IFRS financial information for the six months ended 30 June 2004 56 www.
com 57 preliminary IFRS financial statements INTRODUCTION The significant changes as a result of the transition Where required, deferred tax has been provided IAS 32 & IAS 39 Financial Instruments to IFRS and of adopting the IFRS group accounting on all other IFRS and pro forma adjustments.
IAS 32 and IAS 39 address the accounting for financial Implementation of International Financial Reporting policies are described below.
IAS 32 covers disclosure and presentation Standards IFRS IFRS 2 Share-Based Payments whilst IAS 39 covers recognition and measurement.
From 2005 Hilton Group plc the Group will prepare IAS 19 Employee Benefits In accordance with IFRS 2 and the transitional IAS 39 requires the measurement, at fair value, its consolidated accounts in accordance with IFRS.
IAS 19 requires separate recognition of the operating exemption permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has of a wide range of financial assets and liabilities This section of the Annual Report has been included and financing costs of defined benefit pension recognised a charge reflecting the fair value of and derivatives.
The accounting for the movements to illustrate the differences that will arise when the schemes in the profit and loss account and permits outstanding share options granted to employees since in fair value is dependant on the designation of the financial statements are prepared under IFRS rather a number of options for the recognition of actuarial 7 November 2002.
The fair value has been calculated relevant financial instrument as part of a hedging than UK GAAP.
The Group has adopted the IFRS 1 using a binomial valuation model and is charged to relationship.
For derivatives, any changes in fair value First-time Adoption of International Financial profit over the relevant option vesting period, adjusted are accounted for in income immediately unless the The Groups first IFRS results will be its interim results Reporting Standards transitional exemption and to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting.
derivative is part of a designated hedging relationship.
for June 2005 and the first Annual Report under IFRS recognised the full actuarial pension deficit in equity will be for 2005.
Reconciliations of the Groups UK at the date of transition.
The impact of this change has been a charge of 2.0m The Group will only apply IAS 32 and IAS 39 GAAP balance sheets to its preliminary IFRS balance to operating profit for the year to 31 December 2004 from 1 January 2005 as permitted by the transition sheets at 1 January 2004 the opening balance The Group intends to recognise actuarial gains and and of 1.0m for the six months to 30 June 2004. arrangements in IFRS 1.
However, unaudited pro sheet, 30 June 2004 and 31 December 2004 losses immediately in the statement of recognised forma balance sheets and profit and loss accounts together with reconciliations of the Groups UK GAAP income and expense on the assumption that the IFRS 3 Business Combinations have been calculated as if the Group had appropriate profit and loss accounts to its preliminary IFRS profit revised version of IAS 19 will be endorsed by the IFRS 3 prohibits the amortisation of goodwill.
The hedging documentation in place throughout 2004 and loss accounts for the six months to 30 June European Union EU.
standard requires goodwill to be carried at cost with and had applied the principles of IAS 32 and IAS 39 2004 and for the year to 31 December 2004 are impairment reviews both annually and also when during this period.
The preliminary IFRS The impact of this policy is to recognise an additional there are indications that the carrying value may financial statements will form the basis of the pension liability, net of deferred tax, of 81.3m in the not be recoverable.
Under IAS 39, the Groups 300m convertible bond comparative information in the first IFRS accounts Groups IFRS opening balance sheet at 1 January is required to be split into a debt and equity and have been prepared on the basis of IFRS 2004, 71.2m at 30 June 2004 and 91.1m at As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has chosen to component, net of issue costs.
At 1 January 2004, expected to be in issue at 31 December 2005 but are 31 December 2004. apply IFRS 3 prospectively from the date of transition this has resulted in the restatement of the liability still subject to change.
We will update the restated and has chosen not to restate previous business for the debt component to 263.5m and a 34.3m information for any such change.
The accounting The impact of the policy on operating profit for the combinations.
Therefore, goodwill is stated in the equity component.
Accretion of this debt component polices applied in preparing the preliminary IFRS year ended 31 December 2004 is a reduction of opening balance sheet at its UK GAAP carrying value has resulted in an additional 4.2m charge to pro financial statements are set out on pages 58 and 59.
1.6m, with a 1.9m charge to net interest and of 1,183.1m with subsequent 2004 amortisation forma interest for the year to 31 December 2004 a related tax credit of 1.1m.
For the six months being reversed.
The impact on operating profit after and an additional 2.1m charge for the period to The preliminary IFRS financial statements for the full to 30 June 2004, operating profit is increased exceptional items and goodwill amortisation is a credit 30 June 2004. year ended 31 December 2004 have been audited by 3.4m with interest and related tax charge each of 71.2m for the year to 31 December 2004 and a by Ernst & Young LLP.
The interim preliminary IFRS increased by 0.8m.
credit of 35.4m for the six months to 30 June 2004.
Based on the retrospective hedge designations, the financial information for June 2004 has been reviewed application of IAS 39 to the remaining financial assets by Ernst & Young LLP.
Their reports, which draw IAS 12 Income Taxes IAS 37 Provisions and liabilities of the Group has resulted in a reduction attention to the fact that there is a possibility that IAS 12 requires entities to calculate deferred taxation Under IAS 37, a provision should only be recognised in pro forma net assets of 10.2m in the opening the preliminary financial statements may require based on temporary differences, which are defined when there is a present legal or constructive balance sheet, 9.6m at 30 June 2004 and 8.7m adjustment before constituting final IFRS financial as the difference between the carrying amount of obligation to transfer resources.
For Hilton Group plc, at 31 December 2004.
A 1.1m credit to pro forma statements and that only a complete set of financial assets liabilities and their tax base.
As a result, no such obligation to pay a dividend exists until the interest has been recorded in the year to 31 December statements can provide a fair presentation of the the Group has provided an additional 242.4m of shareholders give formal approval at the annual 2004.
A credit of 0.9m has been recorded for Groups financial position, are set out on pages 66 deferred tax liabilities in its opening balance sheet general meeting.
Therefore under IFRS, the Group the period to 30 June 2004.
The IAS 32 and 39 pro forma information that were not required under UK GAAP.
These will no longer accrue unapproved dividends at period movement in fair values of the ineffective portions for all periods is unaudited.
comprise a 154.7m provision for deferred tax on ends.
This has resulted in an increase in net assets of the Groups hedges and financial instruments acquired brands and licences, a 3.5m provision in of 87.4m at the opening balance sheet date, 57.0m that do not qualify for hedge accounting.
respect of all rolled over capital gains and a 84.2m at 30 June 2004 and 95.3m at 31 December 2004. provision arising from the potential tax gains on the revaluation of fixed assets.
com preliminary IFRS financial statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES In accordance with IFRS 1 the Group is entitled to a The profit and loss account reflects the Groups share Interest rate swaps and collars number of voluntary and mandatory exemptions from of the results of operations of the associate.
To the The notional principle of an interest rate swap or collar Basis of preparation full restatement, which have been adopted as follows: extent that losses of an associate exceed the carrying is recorded off balance sheet.
The net interest paid The preliminary IFRS balance sheets and profit and amount of the investment, the Group discontinues or received is recognised on an accruals basis in the loss accounts shown in the reconciliations on pages Business combinations including its share of further losses and the investment Groups profit and loss account.
61 to 65 have been prepared on the basis of IFRS The basis of accounting for pre-transition combinations is reported at nil value.
Additional losses are only expected to be in issue at 31 December 2005, on the under UK GAAP has not been revisited.
The initial provided if the Group has an obligation to a third party.
Cross currency swaps assumption that IFRS 2 and the revised version of IAS carrying amount of assets and liabilities acquired A cross currency swap has the effect of restating 19 will be endorsed by the EU.
in such business combinations is deemed to be Foreign currency translation the underlying currency denominated dent into the equivalent to cost.
Transactions in foreign currencies swapped currency.
The swapped currency is then As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group will apply the full Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded recorded on the balance sheet.
The next interest paid version of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Property, plant and equipment at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates or received is recognised on an accruals basis in the and Presentation and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: The Group has elected to retain UK GAAP carrying of the individual transactions.
Groups profit and loss account.
The Group also uses Recognition and Measurement as issued by the values of freehold and leasehold hotels including swaps to hedge the Groups tax charge on foreign IASB from 1 January 2005. revaluations as deemed cost at transition.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities.
currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange To enable comparability, reconciliations to pro forma Employee benefits ruling at the balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment 2004 balance sheets and profit and loss accounts The cumulative net deficit on defined benefit pension Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or have been calculated as if the Group had appropriate schemes and similar benefits at transition date has All differences are taken to the profit and loss account, deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any hedging documentation in place throughout 2004. been recognised in full in equity.
with the exception of differences on foreign currency impairment in value.
The IAS 39 accounting policy used in the preparation borrowings that provide a post tax hedge against of these pro forma statements is shown on page 60.
Share-based payments a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, the estimated useful life of the assets as follows: The preliminary IFRS Financial Statements have been instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not at which time they are recognised in the profit and prepared on an historical cost basis, except for the vested at 1 January 2005. loss account.
Tax charges and credits attributable to Buildings retention of freehold and leasehold hotels at previously exchange differences on those borrowings are also 50 years or estimated length of life of the building, or revalued amounts and the measurement of balances at Basis of consolidation dealt with in equity.
lease, whichever is less to estimated residual value.
fair value as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the parent company Foreign Group companies Plant and equipment First-time application Hilton Group plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are 4 to 25 years as considered appropriate to write The Group has adopted IFRS from 1 January 2004 The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the down cost to estimated residual value on a straightthe date of transition with the exception of IAS 32 for the same reporting year as the parent company, balance sheet date.
The profit and loss accounts of line basis over the term of their estimated useful lives.
and IAS 39. using consistent accounting policies.
foreign operations are translated at the average rates of exchange.
The post tax exchange differences Goodwill The results of subsidiaries are consolidated, using the arising on the translation, since the date of transition Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of purchase method of accounting, from the date on which to IFRS, are taken directly to a separate component acquisition over the share of the fair value of identifiable control of the net assets and operations of the acquired of equity.
net assets including intangible assets of a subsidiary, company are effectively transferred to the Group.
associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Similarly, the results of subsidiaries divested cease to be Treasury instruments consolidated from the date on which control of the net The Group makes use of a number of derivative In accordance with IFRS 3, with effect from 1 January assets and operations are transferred out of the Group.
instruments in order to alter the risk profile of an 2004, goodwill is not amortised but reviewed annually underlying exposure of the Group in line with the for impairment and as such is stated at cost less Investments in associates Groups treasury management policies.
The main any provision for impairment in value.
Investments in associates are equity accounted derivative instruments used are as follows: and carried in the balance sheet at cost plus postGoodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets purpose of impairment testing.
of the associate, less any impairment in value.
com 59 preliminary IFRS financial statements Intangible assets Leases Management fees Other than stated below, deferred tax assets are Intangible assets acquired separately from a business Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially Management fees are recognised in accordance recognised for all deductible temporary differences, are capitalised at cost.
Intangible assets acquired as all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of with the substance of the relevant agreement.
carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable separately from goodwill if the fair value can be the lease at the fair value of the leased property or, Joining fees and subscriptions profit will be available against which the deductible measured reliably on initial recognition.
if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease Joining fees and subscriptions in respect of Health temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between and Fitness memberships are recognised over the assets and unused tax losses can be utilised.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability membership period.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised in respect of: reviewed annually for impairment.
so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges Franchise fees deductible temporary differences arising from Inventories are charged directly against income.
Franchise fees received for the provision of initial and the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net subsequent services are recognised as revenue as transaction that is not a business combination realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first-in, Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the services are rendered.
Franchise fees charged for and, at the same time of the transaction, affects first-out basis.
the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset the use of continuing rights granted by the agreement, neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or the lease term.
or for other services provided during the period of the or loss: and Pensions and other post-employment benefits agreement, are recognised as revenue as the services deductible temporary differences associated The Group operates a number of retirement benefit Leases where the lessor retains substantially all are provided or the rights used.
with investments in subsidiaries, associates and schemes throughout the world.
The major schemes the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset interest in joint ventures, except to the extent that are defined benefit pension funds with assets held are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease Betting and Gaming it is probable that the temporary differences will separately from the Group.
The pension cost relating rental payments, other than contingent rentals, Turnover is a combination of total amounts staked by reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit to the defined benefit schemes is assessed in are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss customers on betting activities including Fixed Odds will be available against which the temporary accordance with the advice of independent qualified account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Betting Terminals FOBTs, number bets and sports difference will be utilised.
actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
betting, net takings from Amusement with Prizes Contingent rentals, which are determined by turnover machines AWPs excluding VAT.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the or profit performance of individual hotels, are charged reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to statement of recognised income and expenditure when incurred.
Where a minimum guarantee exists, Deferred tax the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient in the periods in which they arise.
a charge is made to the profit and loss account, Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of based on planned performance, to the extent that on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution the individual hotel is expected to exceed minimum between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and plans are charged to the profit and loss account guarantee levels, or at the minimum guarantee level their carrying amounts with the exception of: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the in the period to which the contributions relate.
if there is a projected shortfall in performance.
tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when A regular assessment is carried out, based on the goodwill: the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on Employee share incentive plan actual performance of the individual hotels, and any the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments difference is charged to the profit and loss account.
transaction that is not a business combination or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
to certain employees including directors.
These and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither payments are measured at fair value at the date of Revenue the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
grant by use of a binomial model.
The cost of equityRevenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable taxable temporary differences associated with settled awards is recognised on a straight-line basis that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and investments in subsidiaries, associates and Dividends over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate the revenue can be reliably measured.
interest in joint ventures, where the timing of Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and of shares that will eventually vest.
the reversal of the temporary difference can be unpaid at the period end are not recognised in the Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration controlled and it is probable that the temporary financial statements until they have been approved No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately received.
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting Hotels irrespective of whether or not the market condition Revenue in respect of hotel accommodation and is satisfied.
related services is recognised at the point at which the services are rendered.
com preliminary IFRS financial statements PRO FORMA ACCOUNTING POLICIES In relation to cash flow hedges that meet the Fair value estimation Issue costs are apportioned between the liability conditions for hedge accounting, the portion In the case of the convertible bond, bank loans, and equity components of the convertible loan notes Financial instruments and hedging activities of the gains or losses on the hedging instrument bonds that are not publicly traded and other loans based on their relative carrying amounts at the date For the pro forma unaudited financial information, that are determined to be an effective hedge are due in more than one year, the fair value of financial of issue.
The portion relating to the equity component the principles of IAS 32 and IAS 39 have been recognised directly in equity and the ineffective liabilities, for disclosure purposes, are estimated is charged directly against equity.
portion is recognised in the profit and loss account.
by discounting the future contractual cash flows When the hedged firm commitment results in the at current market interest rates, which include the The interest expense on the liability component is The Group uses derivative financial instruments such recognition of an asset or a liability then, at the time credit margin used when the debt was issued.
calculated by applying the prevailing market interest as foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps the asset or liability is recognised, the associated rate for similar non-convertible debt to the liability to hedge its risks associated with interest rate and gains or losses that had previously been recognised Interest-bearing loans and borrowings component of the instrument.
The difference between foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative financial in equity are included in the initial measurement of the All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at this amount and the interest paid is added to the instruments are initially accounted for at cost and acquisition cost or other carrying amount of the asset cost, being the fair value of the consideration received carrying amount of the liability component of the subsequently re-measured to fair value.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
or losses on re-measurement are taken to the profit or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred and loss account except where the derivative is to the profit and loss account in the same period in After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and designated as a cash flow hedge or a net investment which the hedged firm commitment affects the profit borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised hedge.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument and loss account.
cost using the effective interest-rate method.
is the present value of all future cash flows discounted Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account at mid-swaps rate and is translated at the spot Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging any issue costs, and any discount or premium exchange rate.
instrument expires, is sold, terminated, exercised or on settlement.
no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point For the purposes of the pro forma unaudited financial in time any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging Gains and losses are recognised in the profit and information, it has been assumed that the derivative instrument which have been recognised in equity are loss account when the liabilities are derecognised, financial instruments taken out as hedges were kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
as well as through the amortisation process.
designated and documented as hedges on the date If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to that the relevant derivative contract was committed to, occur, the cumulative gains or losses that have been Convertible loan notes as one of the following: recognised in equity are transferred to the profit and For the purposes of the pro forma unaudited financial loss account for the year.
information, from 1 January 2004, the principles of A hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability IAS 32 have been adopted as detailed below.
fair value hedge : In relation to net investment hedges the post-tax A hedge of the income cost of a highly probable gains or losses on the translation at the spot Convertible loan notes are regarded as compound forecasted transaction or commitment exchange rate of the hedged instrument are instruments, consisting of a liability component and cash flow hedge : recognised in equity.
The portion of the post-tax an equity component.
At the date of issue, the fair A hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity gains or losses on the hedging instrument that is value of the liability component is estimated using net investment hedge.
determined to be an effective hedge is recognised the prevailing market interest rate for similar directly in equity and the ineffective portion is non-convertible debt.
The difference between the In relation to fair value hedges that meet the conditions recognised in the profit and loss account.
The proceeds of issue of the convertible loan notes and for hedge accounting, gains or losses on the reinterest element of the fair value of the hedging the fair value assigned to the liability component is measurement of the hedging instrument at fair value instrument is taken to the profit and loss account.
included in equity, representing the embedded option are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Any to convert the liability into equity of the Group.
gains or losses on the hedged item attributable For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, to the hedged risk are adjusted against the carrying any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are value of the hedged item and recognised in the profit taken directly to the profit and loss account.
com 61 preliminary IFRS financial statements Reconciliation of UK GAAP to preliminary IFRS profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2004 Preliminary Pro forma Pro forma Pro forma IFRS 3 IFRS 2 IAS 19 Associate IFRS P&L IAS 32 39 IAS 32 39 IFRS Business Share Based Employee interest & account convertible Financial P&L account UK GAAP Combinations Payments Benefits Other tax audited bond Instruments unaudited m m m m m m m m m m Group operating profit 417.2 2.0 1.6 0.4 414.0 414.0 Share of results from associated undertakings 13.0 9.3 3.7 3.7 Total operating profit 430.2 2.0 1.6 0.4 9.3 417.7 417.7 Net finance costs 47.1 1.9 8.0 41.0 4.2 1.1 44.1 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 383.1 2.0 3.5 0.4 1.3 376.7 4.2 1.1 373.6 Taxation 59.4 1.1 0.1 1.3 57.1 1.3 0.3 56.1 Profit after taxation 323.7 2.0 2.4 0.3 319.6 2.9 0.8 317.5 Profit attributable to minority interests 0.1 0.1 0.1 Profit attributable to shareholders 323.6 2.0 2.4 0.3 319.5 2.9 0.8 317.4 Goodwill amortisation 71.2 71.2 Exceptional items 8.4 8.4 8.4 Profit attributable to shareholders 260.8 71.2 2.0 2.4 0.3 327.9 2.9 0.8 325.8 Earnings per share basic 20.4p 20.2p 20.0p Earnings per share diluted 19.3p 19.0p 19.1p Earnings per share basic 16.5p 20.7p 20.6p Earnings per share diluted 15.6p 19.5p 19.6p before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 62 www.
com preliminary IFRS financial statements Reconciliation of UK GAAP to preliminary IFRS profit and loss account for the six months ended 30 June 2004 Preliminary Pro forma Pro forma Pro forma IFRS 3 IFRS 2 IAS 19 Associate IFRS P&L IAS 32 39 IAS 32 39 IFRS P&L UK GAAP Business Share Based Employee interest & account convertible Financial account unaudited Combinations Payments Benefits Other tax unaudited bond Instruments unaudited m m m m m m m m m m Group operating profit 208.6 1.0 3.4 0.5 211.5 211.5 Share of results from associated undertakings 5.4 4.5 0.9 0.9 Total operating profit 214.0 1.0 3.4 0.5 4.5 212.4 212.4 Net finance costs 24.3 0.8 4.0 21.1 2.1 0.9 22.3 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 189.7 1.0 2.6 0.5 0.5 191.3 2.1 0.9 190.1 Taxation 29.4 0.8 0.1 0.5 29.8 0.6 0.2 29.4 Profit after taxation 160.3 1.0 1.8 0.4 161.5 1.5 0.7 160.7 Profit attributable to minority interests 0.1 0.1 0.1 Profit attributable to shareholders 160.2 1.0 1.8 0.4 161.4 1.5 0.7 160.6 Goodwill amortisation 35.4 35.4 Exceptional items 11.4 11.4 11.4 Profit attributable to shareholders 136.2 35.4 1.0 1.8 0.4 172.8 1.5 0.7 172.0 Earnings per share basic 10.1p 10.2p 10.1p Earnings per share diluted 10.0p 10.1p 10.0p Earnings per share basic 8.6p 10.9p 10.9p Earnings per share diluted 8.5p 10.8p 10.8p before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items www.
com preliminary IFRS financial statements Independent auditors report to Hilton Group plc Our responsibility is to express an independent Opinion on the preliminary IFRS financial statements for opinion, based on our audit, on the preliminary IFRS In our opinion, the preliminary IFRS financial the year ended 31 December 2004 financial statements.
We read the other information statements for the year ended 31 December 2004 accompanying the preliminary IFRS financial have been prepared, in all material respects, in We have audited the preliminary International statements and consider whether it is consistent with accordance with the basis set out in the accounting Financial Reporting Standards IFRS financial the preliminary IFRS financial statements.
This other policies note, which describes how IFRS has been statements of Hilton Group plc the Company and information comprises the description of significant applied under IFRS 1, including the assumptions its subsidiaries together the Group for the year changes in accounting polices on page 57.
We management has made about the standards and ended 31 December 2004 which comprises consider the implications for our report if we become interpretations expected to be effective, and the the consolidated IFRS balance sheet as at 1 January aware of any apparent misstatements or material policies expected to be adopted, when management 2004 and the consolidated IFRS profit and loss inconsistencies with the preliminary IFRS financial prepares its first complete set of IFRS financial account and IFRS balance sheet for the year ended statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to statements as at 31 December 2005. and as at 31 December 2004, together with the any other information.
related accounting policies note, set out on pages 58 to 63 but excluding IAS 39 pro forma information.
Basis of audit opinion Ernst & Young LLP This report is made solely to the Company in We conducted our audit in accordance with United London accordance with our engagement letter.
Our audit Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing 24 February 2005 work has been undertaken so that we might state Practices Board.
Those Standards require that we to the Company those matters we are required to plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable state to them in an auditors report and for no other assurance about whether the preliminary IFRS purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do financial statements are free of material misstatement.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other An audit includes examining, on a test basis, than the Company for our audit work, for this report, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures or for the opinions we have formed.
in the consolidated preliminary IFRS balance sheets and profit and loss account.
An audit also includes Respective responsibilities of directors assessing the accounting principles used and and Ernst & Young LLP significant estimates made by management, These preliminary IFRS financial statements are the as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the responsibility of the Companys directors and have preliminary IFRS financial statements.
We believe that been prepared as part of the Companys conversion our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
They have been prepared in accordance with the basis set out in the accounting policies note, Emphasis of matter which describes how IFRS has been applied under Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to IFRS 1, including the assumptions management the fact that the accounting policies note explains has made about the standards and interpretations why there is a possibility that the preliminary IFRS expected to be effective, and the policies expected financial statements may require adjustment before to be adopted, when management prepares its first constituting the final IFRS financial statements.
complete set of IFRS financial statements as at Moreover, we draw attention to the fact that, under 31 December 2005.
IFRS only a complete set of financial statements with comparative financial information and explanatory notes can provide a fair presentation of the Groups financial position, results of operations and cash flows in accordance with IFRS.
com 67 preliminary IFRS financial statements Independent review report to Hilton Group plc on Review work performed the preliminary IFRS financial information for the We conducted our review in accordance with six months ended 30 June 2004 guidance contained in Bulletin 1999 4 Review of interim financial information issued by the Auditing Introduction Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
We have reviewed the preliminary International A review consists principally of making enquiries Financial Reporting Standards IFRS consolidated of group management and applying analytical financial information of Hilton Group plc the Company procedures to the financial information and underlying and its subsidiaries together the Group for the financial data, and based thereon, assessing whether six months ended 30 June 2004 which comprises the accounting policies and presentation have been the consolidated IFRS balance sheet and the consistently applied, unless otherwise disclosed.
consolidated IFRS profit and loss.
A review excludes audit procedures such as tests of controls and verification of assets, liabilities and This report is made solely to the Company in transactions.
It is substantially less in scope than an accordance with guidance contained in Bulletin audit performed in accordance with United Kingdom 1999 4 Review of interim financial information Auditing Standards and therefore provides a lower issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
To the fullest level of assurance than an audit.
Accordingly we extent permitted by the law, we do not accept or do not express an opinion on the preliminary IFRS assume responsibility to anyone other than the financial information.
Company for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have formed.
Emphasis of matter Without modifying our review conclusion, we draw Directors responsibilities attention to the fact that the accounting policies note The preliminary IFRS financial information is the explains why there is a possibility that the preliminary responsibility of the Companys directors and has IFRS financial information may require adjustment been prepared as part of the Companys conversion before constituting the final IFRS financial statements.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Moreover, we draw attention to the fact that, under basis of preparation set out in the accounting policies IFRS only a complete set of financial statements with note, which describes how IFRS has been applied comparative financial information and explanatory under IFRS 1, including the assumptions management notes can provide a fair presentation of the Companys has made about the standards and interpretations financial position, results of operations and cash flows expected to be effective, and the policies expected in accordance with IFRS.
to be adopted, when management prepares its first complete set of IFRS financial statements as at Review conclusion 31 December 2005.
On the basis of our review we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the preliminary IFRS financial information as presented for the six months ended 30 June 2004.
Ernst & Young LLP London 24 February 2005
