The Laird Group PLC Accounting policies Basis of preparation and consolidation The Group accounts include the accounts of The Laird Group PLC and its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries, all of which have been prepared up to 31 December under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of freehold properties and in accordance with applicable UK accounting standards.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included for the effective period of ownership.
Intra-Group profits are eliminated on consolidation.
Certain comparative gures have been restated to conform with the 2004 presentation.
The Group has changed its accounting policy for pensions during 2004 by fully adopting FRS 17 Retirement Benets.
Accordingly comparative gures have been restated for both the Group and the Company.
Turnover Turnover represents the sales value invoiced.
Taxes on sales and intra-Group sales are excluded.
Depreciation Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of xed assets, other than freehold land, evenly over their expected useful lives, principally as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years or less Leasehold land and buildings 50 years or the lease term if less Computer equipment 5 years or less Motor vehicles 4 years Other plant and machinery 13 years or less A proportion of one years depreciation is charged in the year the asset comes into service or is sold.
Pensions The service cost of providing retirement benets to employees during the year is charged to the operating profit or loss in the year.
The full cost of providing amendments to benets in respect of past service and gains and losses arising on unanticipated settlements or curtailments are also charged to the operating profit or loss in the year.
The expected return on the assets of the schemes during the year based on the market value of scheme assets at the start of the year and expected increase in liabilities of the schemes are included within other finance charges income.
Differences between actual and expected returns on assets during the year are recognised in the statement of recognised gains and losses in the year together with differences from changes in assumptions.
The deficit on dened benefit pension schemes, net of deferred tax, is reported on the balance sheet as the pension liability.
For dened contribution schemes the amount charged to the profit and loss account in respect of pension costs is the contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown either as accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Research and development Revenue expenditure on research and development is written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but which have not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax subject to the following: a Deferred tax is not recognised on the revaluation of non-monetary assets such as property unless a binding sale agreement exists at the balance sheet date.
Where rollover relief is available on an asset then deferred tax is in any case not recognised.
b Deferred tax is not recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries unless dividends have been accrued as receivable or there is a binding agreement to distribute past earnings at the balance sheet date.
c Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are regarded as recoverable.
Assets are regarded as recoverable when it is regarded as more likely than not there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses prior to 1 January 1998 and subsequent adjustments to fair value have been set off against reserves.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses since 1 January 1998 is capitalised and amortised through the profit and loss account over the lesser of useful economic life or 20 years.
Fixed assets The Groups policy is not to revalue its freehold property annually.
The valuations of freehold property adopted at 31 December 1999 have been retained.
Finance and operating leases Where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated as a finance lease.
Other leases are treated as operating leases.
Future instalments payable under finance leases, net of finance charges, are included in borrowings with the corresponding asset values recorded in tangible xed assets.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the profit and loss account over the life of the asset or lease term if shorter.
Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Stocks and work in progress Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and labour and an appropriate proportion of overheads.
43 The Laird Group PLC Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies In the Group accounts the results and cash ows of overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling using weighted average rates of exchange for the period.
Net investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising from retranslating opening net investments and the retained profits for the period of overseas subsidiaries, less exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings raised to finance or provide a hedge against overseas investments, are shown as movements on reserves.
All other exchange differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account for the period.
In the balance sheet of The Laird Group PLC, the investments in overseas subsidiaries are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date of the relevant transaction.
Financial instruments Forward contracts are used to hedge foreign currency exposures arising on committed future transactions in foreign currencies.
The rates under such contracts are used to record the hedged item.
Interest differentials on interest rate swaps are recognised by adjusting net interest payable.
Interest rate swaps are not revalued to fair value prior to maturity.
