Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 69 Shareholder Information Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg stock Dividend payment to your bank account exchanges, and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are also traded in The company can pay UK registered shareholders dividends direct an over-the-counter market in the USA.
to their bank or building society account.
This means that dividends will normally be in shareholders accounts on the same day as the UK share register information payment is made and tax vouchers will be posted to the All holdings of the companys shares are maintained on the companys shareholders registered addresses.
Shareholders wishing to adopt UK share register, with the exception of those held on the South this method of payment should contact the registrars.
The register is administered by Lloyds TSB Registrars, who offer a range of shareholder information online, Dividend Reinvestment Plan including facilities to check shareholdings, update personal details A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available through which and cast votes at general meetings as well as providing practical eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash dividends in help on transferring shares at www.
Up-to-date additional Lonmin Plc shares.
Shareholders on the registers on the information on the Company is contained in the Companys website at record date for the recommended final dividend, Friday 21 January www.
com, which also includes a link to the registrars website.
2005, may participate in the plan in respect of that dividend, provided their application forms are received by Monday 31 January 2005.
For those wishing to contact the registrars directly, their contact Copies of the DRIP brochure and application form have been sent details are Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West to eligible shareholders on the registers up to 16 July 2004 and are Sussex, BN99 6DA, United Kingdom.
Their telephone number is being sent to those who are newly entered on the registers between 0870 600 3970 international 44 121 415 7047 and the fax then and 21 January 2005.
Further copies are available from the number is 0870 600 3980 international 44 1903 833371. registrars or can be downloaded from the registrars website.
Currency of dividends South African branch register information The company declares dividends in US dollars.
The final dividend for The South African branch register is administered by Computershare the year ended 30 September 2004 will be paid in sterling to UK Investor Services 2004 Pty Limited, PO Box 61051, Marshalltown shareholders unless they elect to receive US dollars calculated at 2107, South Africa.
Their telephone number is 27 0 11 370 5000 the US dollar to sterling exchange rate on Friday 28 January 2005 and the fax number is 27 0 11 688 5217 or 7707. and in US dollars to all other shareholders unless they elect to receive sterling dividends or have mandated their dividend payments Dividends paid on shares held on the branch register are settled in to a UK bank.
Elections to receive an alternative currency dollars or Rand.
The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2004 will sterling should comprise a signed request to Lloyds TSB Registrars be converted using the Rand to US dollar exchange rate on 7 at the address shown above to be received by 1700 hours on Friday January 2005.
70 70 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Shareholder Information American depositary receipts ADRs Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Accounts ISAs The company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite offers the Lonmin Corporate Stocks The Bank of New York acts as the depositary.
Each ADR represents & Shares ISA from which dividend income and capital gains are one ordinary share of the company.
The ADRs trade in the over-thecompletely free of UK tax for investment in Lonmin Plc shares.
counter OTC market under the symbol LOMNY.
When dividends are UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin Corporate paid to shareholders, the depositary makes the equivalent payment ISA up to a maximum currently of 7,000 annually for a maxi ISA in US dollars to ADR holders.
or alternatively one stocks-and-shares mini ISA of 3,000, by direct transfer of eligible employee shares and or by sale and reinvestment of ADR enquiries should be addressed to The Bank of New York, ADR existing Lonmin Plc shares.
To obtain full details and an application form, Shareholder Inquiries Department, PO Box 11258, Church Street please contact Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite Limited, Clock House, Station, New York, NY 10286, USA.
To speak directly to a Bank of Dogflud Way, Farnham, Surrey GU9 7UL, Tel 01252 712049, Fax 01252 New York representative, please call 1-888-BNY-ADRS 1-888-269- 734628.
Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite is regulated by the FSA.
2377 if you are calling from within the United States.
If you are This is not a recommendation that shareholders should subscribe to calling from outside the USA, please call 1-610-382-7836.
The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary according also use the e-mail address shareowners@bankofny.
com to to individual circumstances and shareholders who are in any doubt communicate with the depositary.
should consult their financial adviser.
Further information for UK domiciled shareholders Capital Gains Tax For capital gains tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies.
Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would be 80.49% for Lonmin Plc and 19.50% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Companys capital reduction was completed on 22 February 2002.
For the purposes of assessing any liability to capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary shares of US$1 each.
The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, and 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Companys shares on 24 April 1998 and 125.3 pence as adjusted for the fidemerger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 71 Notes 72 72 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 Notes Contents 1 Financial Highlights allows you to 2 Financial Review 5 Directors Report 9 Corporate Governance 11 Directors Remuneration Report build a strong 24 Audit Committee Report 27 Nomination Committee Report 28 Independent Auditors Report to the company Members of Lonmin Plc 29 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 30 Consolidated Balance Sheet 31 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 32 Statement of Total Consolidated Lonmin is the third largest Recognised Gains and Losses 32 Consolidated Historical Costs Profits primary producer of Platinum and Losses 32 Reconciliation of Movement in Equity in the world, producing over Shareholders Funds 33 Lonmin Plc Company Balance Sheet 34 Notes to the Accounts 900,000 ounces of Platinum 66 Principal Group Companies 67 Five-year Financial Record and roughly a similar number 68 Corporate Information 69 Shareholder Information of ounces of the Platinum www.
com to learn more about Lonmin group metals such as Palladium and Rhodium.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2004 For the year ending 30 September 2004 Lonmin Plc Annual Report 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7YL Lonmin Plc www.
com A rock solid foundation For the year ending 30 September 2004 Annual Review Lonmin Plc A rock solid foundation Front cover The distinctive UG2 Contents Platinum reef underpinning our 1 Financial Highlights 12 Review of Strategic Development long-term growth plans 2 Chairmans Statement 16 Review of Corporate Accountability 4 Chief Executives Review 18 Board of Directors 8 Market Overview 20 Corporate Information 10 Review of Operations allows you to build a strong company Record performance Quality operations Black empowerment Achieving superior Strong foundations Exceeding our outcomes for future growth commitments Record tons milled up to Prime ore reserves support Free anti-retroviral therapy to all 14.4 million tons.
242 Employees on the anti-retroviral therapy programme.
Record primary mine production of A New Mine Extraction Plan Platinum up at 913,263 oz.
will provide sustainable output 91.8% reduction in SO2 stack of 1.1 million Pt oz per annum emissions from 2003.
Record Platinum sales up to by 2010.
2.1% of pre-tax profits were spent Development at 3 of the Companys on community development projects.
Record total PGM sales up to shafts has been accelerated to 1.76m oz.
35% of our total procurement was support the planned growth.
Developed and implemented a comprehensive safety management system based on visible leadership.
1 EBITDA $357m $344m 2EBIT is total operating profit.
3Underlying earnings per share are calculated on attributable 2 EBIT $303m $297m profit excluding exceptional items and exchange adjustments Profit before taxation $290m $291m on tax as disclosed in note 9 to the accounts.
4 The Board recommends a final dividend of 42 US cents payable Earnings per share 88.4c 52.5c on 14 February 2005 to shareholders on the registers on 3 Underlying earnings per share 96.9c 87.2c 21 January 2005.
4 Dividends per share 72.0c 72.0c 5Equity interests have been restated to show the investment in the Employee Share Ownership Plan as a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
Cash flow 6Gearing is calculated on the net borrowings attributable to the Trading cash flow per share 229.2c 161.0c Group divided by the net borrowings attributable to the Group plus equity shareholders funds.
Free cash flow per share 70.7c 48.2c Balance sheet 5 Equity shareholders funds restated $744m $645m Net borrowings $275m $197m 6 Gearing 27% 23% cents US$million cents oz 2 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 A rock solid foundation www.
com Chairmans Statement based on value creation Dear Shareholders product, experienced continued price African mining legislation to introduce The year ended September 30, 2004 was a weakness and this seems set to continue for Historically Disadvantaged South Africans into watershed for Lonmin.
Against the background some time.
the ownership structure of Lonmin Platinum.
of a strong operating performance, we completed a number of key strategic initiatives On the strategic front we have made major We embrace the spirit and intent of the and have positioned the Company for growth progress.
We have accomplished the legislative framework, and despite press and development under a new Chief Executive.
withdrawal from non-core gold mining activities reports to the contrary, I cannot imagine with the sale of our stake in Ashanti to circumstances in which we would wish to The operating results are discussed in the AngloGold creating the worlds largest gold sue the South African Government for alleged Chief Executives Review which follows company AngloGold Ashanti.
expropriation and we have full confidence in my statement, and elsewhere in this report.
We saw the I will therefore restrict my comments on We have taken advantage of the opportunity new ownership requirements as an opportunity operational matters to thanking the whole of of Impalas willingness to sell its 27 per cent to create a new HDSA controlled mining the management team and our staff on a year minority interest in our South African operating company, which could start life with an already of excellent achievement in an environment companies Eastern and Western Platinum broad ownership in the HDSA community.
which was challenging on many fronts.
together known as Lonmin Platinum.
This We established a new company, Incwala minority interest in our business and the related Resources, which initially includes more than The financial outcome was again adversely contractual rights constituted a major obstacle 50,000 HDSA stakeholders, to partner with us affected by the strength of the South African to the strategic development of Lonmin, to purchase the Impala stake in Lonmin rand against the US dollar, which hits our as they contained disproportionate voting Platinum.
Incwala was able to raise sufficient results as our costs are overwhelmingly in rand arrangements and a poison pill enabling capital to purchase an initial 18% interest in while our revenues are wholly in dollars.
The Gencor and subsequently Impala to effectively our Platinum operations.
currency issue is a continuing problem for the block a change of control of Lonmin.
The whole of the South African mining industry but removal of the Impala stake in Lonmin Platinum Incwala was launched with some fanfare in affects the Platinum and gold sectors more frees us up to pursue a wholly independent September.
We were delighted that The than others.
We expect this situation to reverse strategic future.
I would like to put on record Industrial Development Corporation elected itself at some point but there can be no that the relationship we enjoyed with Impala to make a significant equity investment in certainty as to when this might occur.
as a shareholder in Lonmin Platinum over many Incwala.
Lonmin itself subscribed for a 23 years was an easy and constructive one - per cent stake in Incwala.
Its Board has the Prices of most Platinum group metals they were good partners as well as strong stated ambition to create a broadly held up well through the year.
For us by competitors and we thank them for this.
diversified mining company whose shares, in far the most important metal is Platinum, due course, may be listed on the where there is a structural shortfall of The release of shares in Lonmin Platinum held Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
This production which should ensure strong by Impala presented us with the opportunity to initiative was conceived as an imaginative price performance for the next few years.
design and implement an innovative response way to contribute to the creation of broader Palladium, our second most important to the requirement under the new South and deeper capital markets in South Africa Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 3 and to the Governments objective of wider Company including its affiliates employed practice and with the Combined Code.
share ownership in the previously some 94,000 people.
Its activities, spanning disadvantaged sector of the electorate.
We three continents but concentrated principally Edward Haslam retired as Chief Executive in welcome our new Incwala colleagues as our in Sub-Saharan Africa, covered a wide range the spring having reached normal retirement partners in Lonmin Platinum and look of commerce and industry.
I would like to thank him on behalf of the forward to working closely with them as we relatively small role in a Group which was shareholders and the Board for his valued develop our respective interests in parallel in engaged, amongst other things, in agriculture, contribution to the Groups business in a career future.
vehicle distribution, hotels, textiles, printing with the Company of 17 years.
We wish him and publishing.
There was little or no well in his retirement.
As a Board and management we are increasing industrial logic to the collection of businesses, our commitment to sustainable value based no integrated corporate management and no Sam Jonah resigned from the Board following and ethical business practices.
We have apparent financial synergies.
the AngloGold Ashanti merger to become recently adopted a Charter and a Code of President of that company.
Sam whose Business Ethics which can be viewed on our As at September 30, 2004 the Company career started as an underground trainee in website, www.
had a market capitalisation of 1.6 billion the Obuasi mine in Ghana thirty-five years ago and consolidated debt of 152 million.
had served as Chief Executive of Ashanti for With these strategic moves behind us we are Profits before tax for the year were eighteen years and as a member of the Board set fair to design and develop a new future 200 million and the Group headcount is of Lonmin for twelve years.
As a Board we support the down to 21,000.
In addition to an enormous contribution both to Ashanti and managements stated objective to seek new uninterrupted flow of dividends the Company to Lonmin in his long career and we wish him growth opportunities, acknowledging that returned $500 million to shareholders as a every success in his new role.
these are likely to broaden and diversify the special dividend in 2003 while the value of business in both geographic and commodity Lonrho Africa on listing and distribution to It is with great regret that I have to record the terms.
This subject is dealt with at some shareholders was 133.9 million.
untimely death in September of Sir Alastair length in Brad Mills review.
Alastair had an extraordinarily comments.
Any diversification steps we take No call has been made on shareholders for distinguished career in industrial management will be subject to robust analysis to ensure fresh capital.
Taking the market capitalisation and finance in both the public and the private that they will enhance the long-term future of of the Company as at September 30, 1996 sectors.
His incisive and clear-minded the Company and are consistent with our as the base, the Total Shareholder Return contribution on matters both of strategy and resources, both financial and managerial.
achieved over eight years was 174.3%, operational management will be sorely missed an average of over 20% a year.
and we extend our deepest sympathy to his As we pass this watershed in the Companys wife and family for their loss.
history it is perhaps worth a pause to look The non-executive members of the Board retrospectively at how the Company has of Lonmin regard their principle function as We look forward to another challenging year been transformed under the present Board being to participate fully in the formulation with confidence.
The Company is well and how shareholder value has evolved of corporate and financial strategies and to positioned to continue to grow.
support the Chief Executive and the other executive directors in the execution of agreed On September 30, 1996 the Company strategies.
We pay due regard to the interests then known as Lonrho Plc had a market of all other stakeholders including in particular Sir John Craven capitalisation of 781 million and consolidated our employees and the communities in which Chairman debt of 810 million.
Profits before tax for the we operate.
We also ensure that the Company 24 November 2004 year then ended were 78 million.
The complies with best corporate governance 4 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 A rock solid foundation www.
com Chief Executives Review positioned for future growth The markets for our products remain We have some of the worlds best and lowest strong.
We have fully recovered from the smelter accident of two years ago.
cost Platinum assets, a strong balance sheet The recent further incident at the smelter on 18 November 2004 arose from an and a highly experienced team.
ingress of water through the roof following the dislodgment of a water cooling pipe.
Dear Shareholders There was an additional $70 million profit The incident is unrelated to the matte tap Lonmin is a company undergoing rapid from discontinued operations arising from a hole explosion experienced two years ago change.
With the sale of our Ashanti holding $112 million profit on the sale of the shares and is minor in comparison.
I currently and the completion of our buy out of Impalas in AngloGold Ashanti offset by a $42 million estimate that we should be able to recover holding in our Platinum assets, we are now funding requirement to close the SUITS normal operations by the end of January a focused mining company with no legacy pension scheme.
2005 and that the production target for the entanglements to impede our future growth.
financial year to 30 September 2005 will During the year, we also completed a ground In cash flow terms, the net inflow from still be met.
Our mining process engineers breaking Black Economic Empowerment operations of $400 million was 35% ahead have developed a New Mine Extraction transaction the sale of 18% of Eastern and of last year, and the second highest level Plan that will allow us to grow production Western Platinum to Incwala Resources Pty ever achieved by the Company, resulting from our core properties to a sustainable Limited.
This transaction sets us firmly on the in trading cash flow per share of 229.2c 1,100,000 ounces of primary mine path to the conversion of our mining rights 2003: 161.0c.
After capital expenditure produced Platinum per year from 2010 to new order rights under South African of $187 million and minority dividends of onwards a 20% increase from this legislation.
Conversion will guarantee us long- $37 million, the free cash flow per share was years record 913,263 ounces of Platinum.
term access to the mineral rights that support 70.7c 2003: 48.2c, broadly in line with the Our Pandora Joint Venture, which makes our operations.
72c per share dividend paid to shareholders.
only a very modest contribution, remains a source of future growth.
Turnover increased by $251 million to $1,030 The net increase of $78 million in borrowings million in 2004 largely as a result of a 17% to $275 million included the cash outflow on To further strengthen our operations increase in the average price for the basket the Impala Incwala transactions of $424 and ensure they retain their status as of metals sold.
Unit cost increases were 22% million, the funding requirement for the SUITS the lowest cost primary producers of in rand terms further exacerbated by a 16% pension scheme of $41 million and the $390 Platinum in the industry, we are embarking appreciation of the average rand $ exchange million realised from the AngloGold Ashanti on a major continuous improvement rate.
This resulted in continuing operations transaction.
Overall gearing ended the year at programme utilising the 6 Sigma EBITDA of $357 million 2003: $344 million and 27% on equity shareholders funds of $744 methodology.
This will help us eliminate profit before tax of $290 million 2003: $291 million 2003: 23% on funds of $645 million.
errors, waste and excess costs in our million.
After tax and minority interests the Our Platinum operations are in excellent production processes and improve our underlying earnings per share were 96.9c, an shape and provides the theme for this years overall efficiency and productivity.
11% increase on the 87.2c achieved in 2003. report A Rock Solid Foundation.... Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 5 At Lonmin, a critical focus is our Safety, Health, Looking forward, one of the critical issues in commodities with similar industry dynamics.
that has been facing the Company is how Our core mining skills are readily transferable As a mining company we have to get these best to grow value given the relatively limited and our track record of meeting long-term areas of our business right.
Regrettably, during opportunities in the Platinum industry?
customer expectation is a strategic asset.
We our 2004 fiscal year, we suffered 8 fatalities.
are committed to the growth of shareholder While this is a reasonable result in line with the The characteristics that make our business value and we will be patient in our efforts to deep level South African mining industry, it is strong are a highly consolidated industry identify opportunities that ensure that we can not an acceptable outcome for this structure with long-term contracts between achieve the core objective of growing cash management.
We are committed to the our customers and ourselves.
Our customers flow and earnings per share.
elimination of all serious accidents and injuries value continuity of supply, this is critical for their and we are therefore establishing new, businesses.
They need to know that we will I would like to offer my personal thanks behavioural and risk-based safety programmes meet our commitments to them.
Our low cost to all of the Lonmin and Lonmin Platinums for all of our operations.
operations ensure that we can operate employees that have worked hard throughout uninterrupted through any price cycle.
Today, the year to help the Company achieve this Our biggest health exposure in our operations Lonmin has some of the best Platinum assets years outstanding results.
While many is the high incidence of AIDS in our work force.
in the world and we are looking to add to this challenges remain, I am confident that we Voluntary testing has revealed that about 25- similar quality mineral deposits that have the have the talent and will to meet them.
30% of our work force is currently HIV positive.
same kind of customer-supplier relationships We have embarked on major AIDS awareness and prevention campaigns with our employees The strategic growth of the Lonmin Group is key to its future success.
and with the local communities.
In addition, As Chief Executive, I believe that: we offer anti-retroviral treatment to all employees who can benefit from this drug Our high quality, long life platinum assets, excellent management team, therapy.
Our goal in this area is to continue to strong customer relations and Black Economic Empowerment partners, improve the overall quality of our employees represent a rock solid foundation from which to grow our business.
lives and eliminate those factors that contribute to this tragic epidemic such as single sex hostel living arrangements.
Our strategy is to seek new value creating growth by maximising the value of our core assets and identifying resources we can develop in similar markets.
Our environmental and community performance is tightly interwoven.
We have Our growth platform builds on our core skills of mine development, to continue to make substantial investments mineral processing, customer relationship management and strong toward lessening or eliminating our impact on financial disciplines.
the environment and improving our relations with the local communities.
Our long-term goal The operations today are striving for excellence in every area with an is self sustaining, healthy communities that support our operations and employees.
We emphasis on better safety performance, higher productivity, better have firm programs in place to ensure that we environmental performance and stronger community relationships.
are making steady progress in both of these important areas.
Case studies of our Corporate sustainable development is a key element of our long-term community development effort are published strategy.
By focussing on building healthy communities that support our on our web site www.
com and in our operations, we ensure our own long-term future.
6 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 A rock solid foundation www.
com Chief Executives Review Questions & answers 3.
The unit costs you are reporting have Brad Mills joined Lonmin in March increased this year well above inflation.
Do you have any program to slow down 2004, he answers some of the these increases?
A number of factors have come together questions frequently asked since resulting in higher costs in 2004.
We have he has been at the helm.
seen substantial cost pressures in a number of key cost centres within South Africa.
As a result of this and the general need to improve our productivity and efficiency, we have introduced a formal continuous improvement programme based on the 6 Sigma methodology.
Our goal going forward is to offset, as far as possible, any inflationary cost increases in South Africa for the next few years.
Your strategy is to grow the Company address social and financial imbalances 4.
What are the prospects for the PGM by diversifying its earnings base.
Why not created under the old system of racial markets in the coming year?
stay as a pure Platinum company?
In the mining sector they have Today 75-80% of the worlds PGM production Single commodity companies have significant created what is known as the Mining Charter.
is used in industrial applications and as earnings and cash flow volatility.
This This legislation requires companies to components in consumer products.
The most translates into significant share price volatility convert their existing mining rights to new important use is in the catalytic converter and lower earnings and cash flow multiples order mining rights over a five year period by of automobiles, trucks and other internal than for companies with more stable earnings.
meeting specific requirements for the sale of combustion engines.
Two factors are driving Our strategy is to leverage our core mining equity, employment, HSEC and purchasing increased demand for PGMs in these and marketing skills into new commodities to to Historically Disadvantaged South Africans.
The first, is the continued diversify our single commodity and single The Incwala transaction results in 18% of our tightening of performance requirement in the currency risk.
South African Platinum assets being owned US and Europe, this translates into greater by an HDSA controlled company.
The second factor is the rapid 2.
Can you explain the Incwala this sale of ownership meets one of the adoption of air quality emission legislation for transaction and the need for Black fundamental requirements of this legislation and vehicles by emerging market countries, the Economic Empowerment?
sets us firmly on the road to conversion of our most important of which is China.
We expect After the end of the Apartheid era, the South mineral rights to a new order mining licence.
these factors to result in the continuation of African government recognised the need to growth in demand for PGMs for the next few Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 7 years at least.
On the supply side, growth in working environment for our employees, no 8.
What impact has the strong rand production has been slowed by the strong permanent environmental damage and selfhad on result?
rand and the general difficulty of promoting reliant sustainable local communities.
We are The rand appreciated some 18% over the new mine development in South Africa while at adopting a risked-based approach and course of the year and this had a significant the same time achieving conversion of mineral behavioural focus for our safety and impact on the entire South African mining rights to new order rights.
This is evident in Lonmin through our different from what was delivered in the past, unit costs which increased by 45%, in US 5.
You have increased your Platinum which was primarily a compliance based dollar terms versus only 22% in rand terms.
growth target from your core operations system.
Our community development and Fortunately in our sector some 75% of the to 1,100,000 ounces per annum from 2010 health programs are designed to build local worlds Platinum comes from South Africa without including Pandora.
What is capacity for business development, resulting in some correlation between metals different from last year?
community health and safety management.
Firm prices have We have made major progress on our therefore to a degree cushioned the impact three new shaft developments over the 7.
What do you perceive as the major of the rands strength and dollar weakness.
At the same time we risks to the Company.
Are you comfortable have re-examined the economics of the with them and how can they be mitigated?
This has resulted in increasing The Companys core risks fall into two our confidence of delivering more from our categories: those that are primarily strategic current infrastructure at better capital returns and those that are primarily operational.
Brad Mills and lower costs than a major Greenfield Chief Executive development at Pandora.
Additionally, we Our strategic risks revolve around being a 24 November 2004 can achieve the higher production rate with single commodity business with a single less total capital than would have been currency cost base.
We have a well-defined required for the original Pandora strategy to utilise our core strengths to development.
All of this makes good diversify this risk.
economic sense and we may be able to recommence the Pandora development Our operational risk is derived from the when the market conditions are more technically demanding nature of our business.
We perform annual detailed bottom up risk assessments to identify operational risks and 6.
Can you tell me more about your develop plans to manage and mitigate these Safety, Health, Environmental and risks.
All of this is subject to detailed Community programme and targets?
performance audits to ensure we are Our Safety, Health, Environment and identifying and managing risk appropriately.
Community programs are all designed to deliver our core corporate values of a safe 8 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 Platinum wedding bands.
Catalyst substrates for a range A rock solid foundation of light duty vehicle and motor cycle www.
Market Overview The Platinum Market The Palladium Market 950 400 Markets 900 350 850 300 800 750 250 700 200 650 600 Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep 150 Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep 03 04 03 04 Applications Applications Lonmin is the third largest Platinums usage in automobile catalysts Palladiums dominant application is in primary producer of accounts for 45% of the metals gross demand.
automobile catalysis where its particular Platinum in the world, It is used with Palladium and Rhodium in attribute is its ability to operate at high gasoline vehicle catalysts and is exclusively temperatures to eliminate harmful producing over 900,000 used in diesel passenger vehicle catalysts.
hydrocarbons from vehicle exhaust streams.
ounces and roughly a The jewellery market continues to be This accounts for over 60% of the metals dominated by China and Japan although gross demand.
similar number of ounces demand has softened in a direct response to The electronics industry uses palladium of the other Platinum high price levels.
There is a core global bridal in many components, but principally in Group Metals such as segment augmented by a more price sensitive resistors used in mobile phone applications.
Miniaturisation, however, has recently resulted Palladium and Rhodium.
Electro-chemical applications, including hard in a lower palladium content per piece.
disc applications are steady while increased Palladium is used extensively in dental alloys We have 15 customers in total.
production of LCD screens will benefit with the two strongest markets being Japan These relationships are long-term, platinum crucible sales.
They give us insight into supply demand Commentary Commentary dynamics enabling us to use their The Platinum market set new records during Palladium has been fundamentally weak knowledge in our strategic planning the year as prices reached 24-year highs on during the period under review as an for the business.
Upward inventory overhang effectively caps market momentum came from the general strength prices.
Demand in the principal applications Our global marketing program sells PGMs of the commodity markets as the US dollar has recovered year-on-year and should be into all of the major markets in Europe, weakened, the South African rand strengthened further abetted by the significant Platinum to the US and Asia.
Platinum Group Metals and as Chinas economy continued to palladium price differential.
This may motivate have unique properties and are used across strengthen.
Measures to curb unbridled some of the automobile companies to the range of the many differing applications.
economic growth in China were introduced by partially migrate from Platinum catalysis where the Government taking some of the speculative technically and economically feasible and element from the Platinum price but the could provide a stable floor to the market.
fundamentals continue to be underpinned by strong growth in the automobile catalyst sector, particularly diesel passenger vehicles.
US$ oz US$ oz Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 9 Temperature sensor made of Platinum.
Key Facts 5 year world demand for PGMs The Rhodium Market 1300 1200 10,000 Platinum Pt 1100 Palladium Pd 1000 8,000 Rhodium Rh 900 800 Ruthenium 6,000 Iridium Ru Ir 700 600 4,000 500 400 Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep 03 04 2,000 Applications 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 90% of gross Rhodium demand comes from the automobile catalyst industry.
Refined world metal sales of Platinum Varying compositions of Rhodium, Platinum and Palladium are used to reduce pollutant emissions such as hydrocarbons, 3,500 Autocat carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides from Jewellery 3,000 gasoline engine exhaust streams.
These 2,500 so-called three way catalysts optimise the use of the constituent metals to enable 2,000 vehicle manufacturers to meet ever 1,500 tightening global emissions legislation.
1,000 Niche applications in both the chemical and glass industries account for the 500 balance of Rhodium demand.
0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Commentary 2004 world refined PGM metal sales 2004 Pt world demand applications The Rhodium market tends to be comparatively illiquid, resulting in short term Pt Autocat price volatility not necessarily directly related Pd Jewellery to the market fundamentals.
There has been, Rh Electrical however, a more solid feel to the market Ru Chemical during the latter part of the year under Ir Glass review and should consolidate at higher Other prices than the 2004 Financial Year average, as increasingly more onerous emissions legislation will necessitate further Rhodium purchases by the automobile companies.
US$ oz 000 ozs 000 ozs 10 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 Sunset at K4 mine, Karee.
com Review of Operations Operations Our mining and process engineers have developed a New Mine Extraction Plan that will allow us to grow production from our core properties to a sustainable 1,100,000 ounces of primary mine produced Platinum per year from 2010 onwards.
Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 11 Aerial view of K4 twin shaft project.
Improving PGM recoveries Work being carried out to improve grinding will ensure better liberation of these PGM recoveries on Lonmin Platinums locked PGMs and higher recoveries.
Two projects are currently underway to improve At the Rowland concentrator the circuit the PGM recoveries on Lonmin Platinums configuration is being changed from one where Eastern Platinum and Rowland Concentrators.
all of the milling is done upfront to a mill-float Both of these projects will be commissioned circuit.
This project involves the re-arrangement early in 2005. of the current mills and the installation of some additional flotation capacity.
A similar circuit At Eastern Platinum an ultra-fine grinding mill is re-arrangement was carried out at 1 Shaft being installed to recover some of the PGMs lost Concentrator during 2002 with a good recovery in the cleaner tailings.
This installation follows an improvement.
This circuit change improves extensive pilot plant study and the success of a recovery by allowing PGM containing particles similar installation at the EPC concentrator.
Most to be floated as soon as they are liberated of the PGMs in the cleaner tailings are ultra-fine rather than being over-ground which is often and are not liberated.
The use of ultra-fine the case if all the milling is carried out upfront.
For us, 2004 has been characterised by some strengthening of the South African rand, The graph also depicts the change in capital new records, some successes and, inevitably, necessitated a review of the viability of the expenditure required to implement the New a few failures.
We have, however, learned project.
The review resulted in a drastically Mine Extraction Plan: the capital expenditure considerably this year and, as outlined below, reduced production and capital expenditure profile has also been affected by the have laid the bedrock for the future in several plan being tabled, which in essence is a strengthening of the rand.
areas that will ensure that we continue to holding plan for the project: its scope will deliver strong growth for our shareholders be reviewed annually, and when deemed Unit Costs in the coming years.
appropriate, an increased scale will be Cash costs per PGM ounce sold in South motivated.
African rand increased some 22.4% over Production 2003, to R2,411: in dollar terms the increase Mining output in 2004 was again a record at A New Mine Extraction Plan has, therefore, was 45.2%, mainly due to the sustained 14.4 million tons milled.
been developed as follows: strength of the rand in 2004.
The development and opening up of ore During the first four months of the 2004 reserves at 3 of our current major projects Costs were affected by the toll smelting and financial year, some flotation concentrate will be accelerated: Saffy Shaft, Hossy Shaft refining by a third party, and the continued continued to be sent for toll smelting and complex and the K4 Twin Shaft complex.
running of the old Merensky and Pyroment refining as the No.
1 Furnace was still under It is also proposed that a sub-decline on furnaces in the first half, increased opencast repair.
The latter came on line in January 2004 the Merensky horizon be developed at throughput and investment in safety, health, and, following a period of commissioning, Rowland Shaft, Western Platinum, which environment and CSI programmes.
production was steadily ramped up with close will, provide a 20,000 tpm expansion.
to design outputs being achieved in July.
Clearly, however, this upward cost trend is Full production on Saffy and K4 shafts will unacceptable and a number of interventions Primary mine production of Platinum was a now be reached 5 and 6 years earlier in have already been put in place to reverse record at 913,263 oz, with total output being 2009 and 2011 respectively, whilst on Hossy this unhealthy trend.
These include the 918,454 oz including the metal resulting from full production will be reached 1 year earlier introduction of a 6 Sigma Programme for the last of the old residue ponds.
These actions will fill the production cost reduction and efficiency improvement, compares to last years primary output of void created by the curtailment of Lonmin an increased training drive, and a focus on 907,599 oz total output including pond Platinums portion of the Pandora project.
the management of waste in all its forms.
Platinum ounces sold 6 Sigma is a data driven business philosophy were also a record at 942,843 oz.
The effect of these changes can be seen on of focussing on continuous improvement.
The graph shows that It is aimed at the near-elimination of defects Production Growth production of 1 million Pt oz per annum is from every process, transaction and product The Pandora JV Project has been an integral still achievable circa 2007 and that it is now by eliminating the various elements of waste part of Lonmin Platinums long-term production possible to reach an increased sustainable and reducing variation.
In addition, it focuses plan since 2000.
Various delays to the project production rate of 1.1 million oz Pt per at understanding both internal, as well as during the last few years, and the co-incidental annum by 2010. external, customer needs, analysing 12 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 The ULP Ultra Low Profile Face Rig A rock solid foundation is part of the ULP fleet of equipment.
com This machine performs the primary mining function of drilling the face.
Review of Operations Mining Resources Original and revised production and capex profiles Costs PGMs and gold troy oz millions New Mine Extraction Plan 1200 Actual Capex 2004 2003 200 1100 Original Capex Mineral Reserves 1000 Revised Capex 150 900 Proven 2.6 2.76 Production 800 Probable 71.5 73.02 100 New Mine Extraction Plan Pt oz 700 Total 74.1 75.78 Original Plan Pt oz 600 50 Mineral Resources Production excluding 500 external resources Total 44.8 35.28 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 400 business processes, and instituting proper 25% conversion of conventional mining Boxhole Borer measurement methods.
Clearly the return to methods to those of a mechanised and or This unique concept to rapidly develop box health of the No.
1 Furnace, and nonautomated nature: holes travelling ways with a compact and reliance on toll treatment going forward, will Developing new and alternate skills.
mobile machine is progressing well.
The also contribute to cost reduction.
commissioning of the prototype machine Narrow Reef Miner is scheduled for October 2004.
Mechanisation and Automation The second generation ARM machine was The Mechanisation and Automation M&A introduced early in 2004.
This machine People strategy is aligned to Lonmin Platinums incorporates many additional features and Work continues on the development of skills strategic direction: its vision and values.
This improvements learned from the initial protomatrices to support mechanised mining.
strategy is currently re-engineering the type machine.
The production machine is With many of the projects advancing from mining operations in the future, ensuring progressing well, cutting 3 linear meters per the trial phase into that of fully fledged mining operational excellence through a culture of day single shift.
Work is now focussed on operations, we now have many people innovation, creative change and a perfecting the cutters and developing the working in a safer, healthier environment who commitment to continuous improvement.
business case before entering the double are highly skilled and hence better rewarded.
The M&A strategy focuses on three main shift phase early in the new year.
areas: Non-explosive Mining Worker: Ultra Low Profile Work continues for the search for a viable Workplace: The third phase of the project, namely alternative non-explosive mining method to Supervisor.
the integration of machine and people into complement the Narrow Reef Miner.
the mining system, has successfully been The re-engineering strategy is seeking and completed.
The business case for the Mineral Resources implementing alternative mining methods expansion of this project into an initial The total proven and probable reserves that reduce our workers exposure to: 30,000 tpm Merensky mining operation of PGMs at 30 September 2004 were Hazardous practice: is in an advanced stage.
74.1million troy oz compared to 75.8 million Hard physical work.
Tunnel Digging Machine For full details of the Groups mineral reserves Furthermore, the strategy is aligned to the This project incorporates a unique multiand resources visit www.
operational improvements sought through functional machine with haulage conveyors Lonmin Platinums strategic thrusts, these into a high-speed development process.
being a: The initial phase of this project, design and 20% improvement in cost and installation of infrastructure is complete.
The productivity indicators: mining trial phase commences in late 2004.
US$ million Pt Ounces Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 13 Employees in the BMR Smelter.
Opencast Project The Opencast project has been a huge million tons milled with 17.4 tons of PGMs success with two world-class concentrators in matte produced.
Projected production for commissioned within 14 months of the project the full period ending 2005 is 8.8 million tons being approved in July 2001.
The project called milled and 25.9 of PGMs milled in matte.
The for a total production of 7 million tons milled working cost was budgeted at $12,241 per kg and 17.2 tons of PGMs in matte produced for produced and is currently running at $8,546 a four-year period ending 2005.
Production for per kg produced.
com Review of Corporate Development Strategic development Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 15 Underground drilling at Rowland Shaft.
Incwala Resources On 18 September 2003, Lonmin jointly Lonmin attracted the South African Industrial announced with Implats the sale of Implats Development Corporation as a direct 27.1% interest in Lonmin Platinum and the equity investor: creation of a new Black Empowerment Lonmin established the first publicly endorsed company subsequently named Incwala transfer of empowerment credits by a seller Resources.
This transaction was both of an asset to its remaining group assets: innovative and pioneering in that: Lonmin remains a 23.6% equity participant It created an empowerment company with a in Incwala, well positioned to share in the broad base of shareholders including some growth potential of this sound financial 20,000 employees of Lonmin Platinum and empowerment platform: 10,000 local community members: The transaction provides empowerment credits Incwala is both majority owned and for the Lonmin Platinum mining licence renewal.
controlled by Historically Disadvantaged South Africans.
These empowerment This is a watershed transaction for Lonmin and credentials have been welcomed by the has enabled us to consider a new strategic vista.
South African Government: Our high quality, long life platinum assets and given a value accretive opportunity.
Indeed Canada The Sudbury Camp Joint our Black Economic Empowerment associate our close relationship with our associate Venture SCJV Incwala Resources represent a solid Incwala Resources means we are well placed A new PGM discovery was made during the foundation from which to grow our business.
Diversification by commodity year on the Wisner property with 3 shallow We will build on our core skills of cost however, will also permit us to more easily drill holes intersecting multi-gram values.
efficient mine development, mineral diversify our geographic profile, distributing The successful identification techniques used processing, customer relationship risk and making us a global player.
at Wisner are now being applied across management and strong financial disciplines.
other properties in the SCJV portfolio.
Ultimately, we believe that growth by Our strategy is to seek new value creating acquisition through both commodity and South Africa Loskop growth by maximising the value of our core geographic diversification is a prerequisite This project comprises joint ventures near assets and identifying resources we can if we are to achieve the size and rating criteria the Loskop Dam in the Eastern Bushveld.
targets that we have set ourselves.
It has a combined strike length of over 30km and hosts several PGM mineralised targets.
This strategy will be pursued in three areas: Growth within the PGM arena Drilling results have achieved mixed results, Maximising the value of Lonmin Platinum but are encouraging in several areas.
Growth through acquisition in through organic growth is covered elsewhere commodities with similar markets in this document.
In addition to this, the new Tanzania Mibango We believe that our core skills are transferable business team is seeking to complement our Drilling on the large nickel-PGM bearing into other commodities, with the best fit being PGM portfolio through the addition of new laterite deposit continues with the objective what we refer to as the non screen traded sources of PGMs, both within South Africa of quantifying the potential resources and commodities.
The markets of such and elsewhere in the world.
obtaining samples for metallurgical test work.
commodities tend to function in a similar manner to PGMs with few market participants and Exploration Tanzania Luwumbu consistently attractive returns.
We are in the All growth is founded on mineral discovery.
We have completed the first year of exploration process of evaluating a number of such options, Building on previous years early stage on the Luwumbu project where anomalous any one of which would present an interesting projects, we have made substantial progress PGM and nickel values in soils were identified and value creating combination with PGMs.
In addition to our six existing over a strike of several kilometres.
projects, we are expanding our search for Currently our asset portfolio is South African further opportunities, with preference for those USA Alaska Union Bay centric.
We are very comfortable operating in at a more advanced stage of exploration.
An airborne geophysical survey revealed Africa and would consider further investment several large new anomalies that are planned for drilling in the coming year.
16 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 We seek to create a mindset where people A rock solid foundation believe it is possible to work injury free.
com Review of Corporate Accountability Sustainable development While HIV AIDS is clearly a health crisis, Corporate sustainable development we have come to realise that it is also a development risk that exposes human is a key element of our long-term welfare, social cohesion, socio-economic growth and productivity.
By focussing on building healthy communities that support We are committed to the effective management of the disease and its associated our operations, we ensure our impacts on employees, the workplace and the communities where we operate.
has evolved and expanded over the past few years from policy and strategy development, awareness and education programmes, to wellness management programmes dealing with preventative and palliative care.
We have taken the bold step to provide our employees with anti-retroviral therapy ART, turning the The safety of our employees and the 2003.
This figure represents a total of 1,294 tide for HIV-positive employees from despair communities in which we operate is a core Lost Time Injuries LTI, compared to 1,327 in to hope.
Our goal is Zero 2003, with a severity ratio of 14.7 days lost Harm.
To achieve this we seek to create a per LTI.
This is the first step towards We have made significant progress with the mindset where people believe it is possible achieving our target of a 50% reduction in lost administration of anti-retroviral therapy to our to work injury free.
time injury frequency by 2005. employees.
The programme commenced in January 2004 and just nine months later, there It is with regret that we report the tragic loss of To achieve our safety goal, our focus is on are 242 patients on the treatment programme eight lives due to work-related activities.
The visible leadership, individual accountability, and 94% of them are back at work.
eight fatalities constitute 6 full-time employees setting appropriate targets, engaging in the and 2 contractors.
We remain determined to workplace, implementing minimum SHEC The Environment make zero fatalities a reality at our operations.
Management Standards and auditing Our commitment is to balance economic performance against those standards.
We development with environmental excellence, Our performance, as measured by the lost have also implemented Fatal Risk Protocols causing no permanent environmental harm time injury frequency rate for employees and to give guidance to our operations regarding where we operate.
We have set a strategic contractors, improved by 2% compared to the management of our major hazards milestone of 100% legal compliance by that cause fatalities.
A third-party legal Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 17 Instilling a learning culture in our Creating business opportunities in future leaders.
our local communities ensures sustainable, social and economic development.
compliance assessment was conducted at all framework for legislative requirements and The Lonmin Development Trust serves our operations in November 2003 and continual improvement through target-setting as a primary vehicle for our community identified 189 instances of legal nonand implementation of best practices.
To date, 163 of these instances The Trust was established this year and have been corrected at an approximate cost Land management plans have been compiled has contributed a total of US$6.46 million of $0.8m.
The outstanding legal compliance for all our sites and will provide a framework to programmes that will add value to and elements primarily comprised regulatory filings for the control of legal requirements and enhance peoples lives.
This equates to or other minor matters where there was environmental risks.
We have developed mine 2.1% of our pre-tax profits from continuing commonly no process for registration in place closure plans to facilitate rolling rehabilitation operations, achieving our target for this year.
and where we are waiting for feedback from that not only benefits the environment, but the regulatory bodies.
Atmospheric emissions also reduces the cost of mine closure.
This Some of the projects that we invested in pose a significant risk to our employees, the process incorporated a comprehensive included: communities adjacent to our operations and quantum assessment of the financial provision Conversion of hostel blocks into family units: the environment.
The major risk factors are required for closure.
Construction of additional high density sulphur dioxide emissions from our smelting houses in Marikana, mainly for employees: operations and dust proliferation from the Community Co-funding with local government of 650 slimes dam complexes.
The average sulphur We are committed to making a sustainable low cost houses for the community: fixation plant utilisation for 2004 was 95.6%, difference to our local communities by Construction of a primary school: the utilisation improving markedly over the last contributing to the long-term social and Various rural development projects such as six months with an average of 99.5% for that economic development of our employees, water boreholes, sanitation, electrification, 2 period.
The SO release into the atmosphere their families and the local communities agriculture, and home based care for the via the sulphur fixation plant stack was on associated or affected by our operations terminally ill: and average 3.4 t day during 2004 41.4 t day to ensure their long-term sustainability.
Agricultural projects which will create some 2003, a 91.8% improvement.
1,500 jobs in the local community over the We align our Corporate Social Investment next 3 years.
Our water use for primary activities decreased CSI programmes with local, regional and by 8.2% from 11,595 Ml to 10,714 Ml.
We It is planned to spend a further $6 million on Comprehensive integrated water and waste communicate and engage in regular CSI in 2005. management plans were compiled for each dialogue with both our internal and external of the operations to optimise water and salt stakeholders regarding our activities.
We also balances, improve process efficiency, develop and participate in partnerships that effectively control risk areas and provide a create an environment of mutual co-operation.
18 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 A rock solid foundation www.
com 1 Board of Directors 5 6 Executive Directors 1 Brad Mills 50 3 Peter Ledger 55 Chief Executive President Platinum Appointed as a director and chief executive in Appointed a director in November 2002.
Holds a first degree in geology A mining engineering graduate of Wits and a masters degree in minerals economics University, he also holds a mine managers from Stanford University.
After working in certificate of competency and gained broad exploration and business development for operational experience of coal, chrome, Magma Copper, he held a variety of senior roles asbestos and gold mining, prior to joining for BHP following that companys acquisition of the Lonmin Group in 1988 as a consulting Magma.
One of the architects of the merger of engineer.
Peter assumed operational BHP and Billiton in 2001, he subsequently responsibility for our platinum mines in 1990 headed up strategy for the combined group and was subsequently appointed as the before becoming head of BHP Billitons base operations director of Lonmin Platinum in metals division, a business considerably larger 1997 and as managing director in 2000. than Lonmin.
Peter has South African nationality.
2 Ian Farmer 42 4 John Robinson 50 Chief Strategic Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed a director in 2001 and has After reading economics at Cambridge responsibilities for the Companys business University, John qualified as a chartered development, exploration and marketing accountant whilst working for Thomson activities.
A chartered accountant, he joined McLintock & Co, now a part of KPMG.
He the Company in 1986 and transferred to a joined the Company in 1979 as a financial group company in Zambia in 1990.
In 1995 analyst and held a subsequent post as a he was appointed finance director of Lonmin finance executive working with the mining Platinum in South Africa, which position he operations.
Appointed as an associate relinquished upon his transfer to London in director in 1992, he subsequently joined 2001.
He is a director of the International the Board as finance director in 1999.
He Platinum Association and of Furuya Metals Co. played a pivotal role in the sale or closure Limited, Tokyo, and currently acts as the of numerous companies, particularly from interim chief executive of Incwala Resources 1997 onwards, helping to shape Lonmin into Pty Limited, which holds a minority interest a focused mining company.
in Lonmins South African operating subsidiaries.
Ian has both South African and British nationality.
Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 19 2 3 4 7 8 Non-executive Directors 5 Sir John Craven 64 7 Peter Godsoe 66 Chairman A chartered accountant and banker with an Appointed as an independent non-executive MBA from Harvard, he was appointed an director and chairman of the Board in 1997. independent non-executive director in 2001.
Currently chairman of Fleming Family and He is a member of the nomination and Partners Limited, an independent,  committees of the Board, and owned investment house, he was previously was appointed to the audit committee in the group chief executive and chairman of September 2004.
Formerly chairman and chief Morgan Grenfell Group plc and subsequently executive officer of The Bank of Nova Scotia, he a member of the board of managing directors is also a non-executive director of Barrick Gold, of Deutsche Bank AG after that companys Fairmont Hotels & Resorts Inc. and Ingersollacquisition of Morgan Grenfell.
a number of non-executive directorships, including Reuters Holdings plc, and is a 8 Michael Hartnall 62 non-executive director of Incwala Resources Appointed an independent non-executive Pty Limited and a director of Patagonia Gold.
He is the chairman Sir John holds both British and Canadian of the audit committee, a member of the nationality and was knighted for his services remuneration committee and also sits on to banking and to the City.
A chartered accountant and former finance director 6 Roger Phillimore 55 of Rexam Plc, he is also a non-executive Deputy Chairman and director of BAE SYSTEMS plc and Elementis Senior Independent Director Plc.
Appointed an independent non-executive director in 1997.
Chairman of the nomination Sir Alastair Morton 1938 2004 and remuneration committees, and a Sir Alastair Morton, one of the Companys member of audit committee.
Formerly joint non-executive directors, passed away on managing director of Minorco, he is currently 1 September 2004.
Sir Alastair joined the a non-executive director of Aber Diamond Board in March 1998 and chaired the Corporation.
Roger holds both British and audit committee until the end of 2003.
The Company will miss his wise counsel and thoughtful contributions to its business.
20 Lonmin Plc Annual Review 2004 A rock solid foundation www.
com Corporate Information Company secretary and registered office External auditors Registrars Rob Bellhouse BSc FCIS KPMG Audit Plc Lloyds TSB Registrars Lonmin Plc PO Box 695 The Causeway 4 Grosvenor Place 8 Salisbury Square Worthing London London West Sussex SW1X 7YL EC4Y 8BB BN99 6DA United Kingdom United Kingdom United Kingdom Lonmin is registered in England and Wales Internal auditors Telephone as company number 103002 Ernst & Young UK Callers 0870 600 3970 Business Risk Services SA UK Fax 0870 600 3980 PO Box 2322 Telephone 44 0 020 7201 6000 International Johannesburg 2000 Fax 44 0 020 7201 6100 Callers 44 0 121 415 7047 South Africa E-mail contact@lonmin.
com Principal group bankers Computershare Investor Services 2004 Lloyds TSB Bank Plc Pty Limited Standard Chartered Bank PO Box 61051 Standard Bank Marshalltown 2107 HSBC Bank Plc South Africa Stockbrokers Telephone 27 11 370 5000 Cazenove & Co. Ltd Fax 27 11 688 5217 or 7707 HSBC Investment Bank plc Street Address 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001 South Africa The Bank of New York ADR Shareholder Enquiries Dept.
PO Box 11258 Church Street Station New York NY 10286 USA Telephone US Callers 1-888-BNY-ADRS Toll free International Callers 1 610 382 7836 Email shareowners@bankofny.
asp Designed and produced by Emperor Design Consultants Ltd Photography by Giles Barnard Photography on pages 2 and 3 Jewellery reproduced with the permission of the Platinum Guild Catalyst substrates reproduced with the permission of Johnson Matthey Temperature sensor reproduced with the permission of Heraus, Hanau Printed on Megamatt  paper using solvent-based inks by Greenaways, who are accredited under ISO 14001.
Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place London SW1X 7YL www.
