Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 55 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the sixth Annual General Meeting 10.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following of Luminar plc will be held at the offices of CMS Cameron resolution as a special resolution: McKenna, 160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD on Tuesday 6 July 2004 at 2.30pm for the transaction of the THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 9 above, following business: the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity ORDINARY BUSINESS securities within the meaning of Section 94 of that Act 1.
To receive the Companys audited accounts for the for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by period ended 29 February 2004 together with the last resolution 10 as if sub-section 89 1 of that Act did not Directors report, the last Directors remuneration report apply to any such allotment, provided that this power and the auditors report on those accounts and the shall be limited: auditable part of the Directors report on remuneration.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection 2.
To approve the Directors Report on Remuneration.
with an issue in favour of ordinary shareholders on a fixed record date whether by way of a rights issue, 3.
To declare a final dividend of 8.87p per ordinary share.
open offer or otherwise where the equity securities attributable to such ordinary shareholders are 4.
To re-elect Mr D Longbottom as a director.
proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number of ordinary shares held by them on such record 5.
To re-elect Mr R Brooke as a director.
date, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or 6.
To re-elect Mr M Gatto as a director.
expedient to deal with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the 7.
To re-elect Ms L Wilding as a director.
requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange or any other matter whatsoever: and 8.
To appoint  LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subnext general meeting at which accounts are laid before paragraph a above of equity securities up to an the company and that their remuneration be fixed by aggregate nominal value of 914,691: the Directors.
and shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the SPECIAL BUSINESS next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held 9.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following after the passing of this resolution and the date falling resolution as an ordinary resolution: 15 months after the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company THAT the Directors be and are hereby generally and save that the Company may before such expiry make unconditionally authorised to exercise all the powers an offer or arrangement which would or might require of the Company to allot relevant securities within the equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the meaning of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to such an aggregate nominal amount of 6,097,940 and that offer or arrangement as if the power conferred hereby this authority shall expire on the earlier of the had not expired.
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution and the date falling 15 months after the passing of this resolution unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
56 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 11.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as a special resolution: THAT, subject to the Companys Articles of Association from time to time, the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 163 3 of that Act of its own ordinary shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors shall determine, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 7,317,528 representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital: b the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing mid market prices for the ordinary shares of the Company derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and the minimum price per ordinary share is the nominal value thereof exclusive of any expenses payable by the Company: and c unless previously renewed, varied or revoked the authority hereby given shall expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held after the passing of this resolution and the date falling twelve months after the passing of this resolution, save that the Company may make any purchase of ordinary shares after the expiry of such authority in execution of a contract of purchase that was made under and before the expiry of such authority.
By order of the Board HENRY ANDREW WILLITS COMPANY SECRETARY 12 MAY 2004
