Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 57 EXPLANATION OF RESOLUTIONS This is an important document.
If there is anything you do not 6.
RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES understand, please contact an appropriate professional adviser.
ITEMS 9 AND 10 ON THE AGENDA The existing authorities given to the Directors at the last 1.
DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS Annual General Meeting to allot unissued share capital and ITEM 1 ON THE AGENDA to allot shares for cash in limited circumstances expire on The Directors are required to present to the meeting the [9 July 2002].
It is proposed that further authorities be Directors and Auditors reports and the accounts for the granted which shall expire on the earlier of the date of the year ended 29 February 2004. next Annual General Meeting to be held after the passing of the resolution and the date falling fifteen months after the 2.
CONSIDER AND ADOPT THE REPORT ON REMUNERATION passing of the resolution.
An ordinary resolution item 10 ITEM 2 ON THE AGENDA will be proposed to authorise the Directors to allot unissued In accordance with recommended best practice, the Directors share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of are presenting the Report of the Remuneration Committee 6,097,940 being 24,391,760 ordinary shares of for approval.
The Report is set out on pages 28 to 34.
25p each representing approximately 33% of the share capital currently in issue.
DECLARATION OF DIVIDEND will be proposed authorising the Directors to allot shares ITEM 3 ON THE AGENDA in connection with a pre-emptive issue to existing The proposed final dividend of 8.87p per ordinary share will be shareholders or for cash up to 914,691 being paid on 8 July 2004 to shareholders who are on the Register approximately 5% of the share capital currently in issue.
of Members as at the close of business on 4 June 2004.
This There are no present plans to issue shares, except as dividend is in addition to the interim dividend of 3.37p per required to satisfy the exercise of options or warrants under ordinary share, which was paid on 9 January 2004.
The shares the Companys employee share incentive schemes.
will become ex-dividend on 2 June 2004.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES 4.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS ITEM 11 ON THE AGENDA ITEMS 4, 5, 6 AND 7 ON THE AGENDA The special resolution proposed at item 10 would authorise Article 87 of the Companys Articles of Association states that the Company to acquire its own shares subject to the any Director who has not been appointed or re-appointed constraints set out in the resolution.
The Directors would at either of the Companys last two Annual General Meetings exercise this power only if satisfied that it was in the interests should retire.
Ms L Wilding is retiring and offering herself for of the shareholders as a whole to do so and that it was likely re-election under this provision.
to result in an increase in earnings per share.
Any shares purchased in accordance with this authority will subsequently Article 93 allows the Board to appoint a person to the Board, be cancelled.
subject to that person being re-elected at the subsequent Annual General Meeting.
Mr S M Gatto and Mr R Brooke were As at 20 May 2004, options and warrants were outstanding appointed on 1 January 2004, Mr D Longbottom was appointed to subscribe for a total number of 7,803,433 ordinary on 17 April 2004 and all are offering themselves for re-election.
shares, or 10.66% of the Companys issued share capital.
Full biographical details of all Directors are on page 20 of If this authority to purchase shares is ever used in full, this Report.
the proportion of issued share capital represented by this figure would be 11.93%.
APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION OF AUDITORS ITEM 8 ON THE AGENDA This resolution proposes the re-appointment of  LLP as the Companys auditors, and permits the Directors to fix their remuneration.
58 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 ACTION TO BE TAKEN Before posting the form of proxy to the Registrars, please Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual General check that you have signed it.
In the case of joint holders, Meeting, you are requested to complete the enclosed form either of you may sign it.
of proxy and return it to the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars Scotland, P O Box 28448, Finance House, To be effective the form of proxy must be received by the Orchard Brae, Edinburgh EH4 1WQ as soon as possible and Companys Registrars at the address shown above by no in any event so as to be received no later than 48 hours later than 8.30am on 5 July 2004.
Any form of proxy before the time appointed for the Annual General Meeting.
received after this time will be declared void.
The completion and submission of a form of proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting in person if you so wish.
Any member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting RECOMMENDATION may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, Your Board believes that the proposed resolutions to be put vote on his behalf.
A proxy need not be a member.
to the meeting are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote 2.
Instruments appointing proxies must be received by the in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before the respect of their own beneficial shareholdings in the Company.
time the meeting is to be held.
For the purpose of determining entitlement to attend and As a shareholder of Luminar plc, you have the right to attend vote at the meeting, the name of the member must be and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
entered on the register of members at 8.30am on 5 July 2004.
If you have recently sold or transferred all of your Please bring with you the accompanying form of proxy shares in the Company please send this notice and the admission Card.
It will authenticate your right to attend, accompanying form of proxy form to the broker who sold speak and vote and will speed your admission.
Please keep your shares for you.
The broker can then send them to it until the end of the meeting.
The meeting will commence the new owner of the shares.
at 3.30pm and refreshments will be available from 3.00pm.
The following documents are available for inspection during You may also find it helpful to bring your Annual Report with normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public you so that you can refer to it at the meeting.
holidays excepted at the Companys registered office and at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna at 160 If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you may appoint Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4DD from the date of this either the Chairman of the meeting or someone else of your notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting: choice to act on your behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
That person is known as a proxy.
You can use the enclosed a The Register of Directors and their families interests form of proxy to appoint a proxy.
in the share capital of the Company.
A proxy need not be a shareholder and may attend and vote b Copies of all Directors service contracts for periods on a poll on behalf of the shareholder who appointed him in excess of one year with the Company or any of or her.
At the meeting, the proxy can act for the member he or she c The existing Memorandum and Articles of Association.
This includes the right to join in or demand a poll, but it does not include the right to vote on a show of hands.
The proxy is valid for any adjournment of the meeting.
Please tick the appropriate box alongside each resolution to indicate whether you wish your votes to be cast for, or against that resolution.
Unless you give specific instructions on how you wish to vote on a particular resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her discretion, either to vote for or against that resolution or to abstain from voting.
