36 LUMINAR PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In accordance with FRS18, the Directors have reviewed the Income and expenditure arising on financial instruments accounting policies of the Group set out below and consider is recognised on the accruals basis, and credited or charged them to be appropriate.
to the profit and loss account in the financial period to which it relates.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance Interest differentials, under which the amounts and periods with applicable accounting standards, the Companies Act for which interest rates on borrowing are varied, are reflected 1985 and under the historical cost convention except that as adjustments to interest payable.
certain freehold and leasehold properties are shown at their revalued amounts.
The accounting policies are set out below INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND GOODWILL and have remained unchanged from the previous year.
Trademarks purchased separately from a business are included at cost and amortised over their useful economic BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION lives as shown in note 8.
The principles of merger accounting have been applied on the original formation of Luminar plc.
All subsequent Purchased goodwill is capitalised and is amortised on a acquisitions have been accounted for using the principles straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life, of acquisition accounting.
which does not exceed 20 years.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the TURNOVER Company and of its subsidiary undertakings see note 10 Turnover is the total amount receivable by the Group for drawn up to 29 February 2004.
The results of subsidiary goods supplied and services provided, excluding VAT and undertakings acquired during the year have been included is recognised on delivery of the goods services.
from the date of acquisition.
Profits or losses on intra-group transactions are eliminated in full.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation On acquisition of a subsidiary, all of the subsidiarys assets and any provision for impairment.
Finance costs on fixed asset and liabilities, which exist at the date of acquisition, are additions are capitalised during the period of construction recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that and written off as part of the total cost.
Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the charged during the period of construction.
excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired, is capitalised Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost less estimated and is amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful residual value of all tangible fixed assets by equal annual economic life.
instalments over their estimated useful economic lives.
The Company was entitled to merger relief offered by The periods generally applicable are: section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 in respect of the consideration received in excess of the nominal value of Freehold and long leasehold land and buildings and the equity shares issued in connection with the acquisition related structural fixtures and fittings 50 years of Northern Leisure PLC.
Short leasehold land and buildings and related structural fixtures and fittings over the period of the lease FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Other fixtures and fittings, furniture and equipment The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily between two years and 10 years.
to manage exposures to fluctuations in interest rates.
Discounts and premiums are charged or credited to the profit Any impairment made on tangible fixed assets is determined and loss account over the life of the asset or liability to which as the difference between the net present value of income they relate.
generating units, i. e. discrete trading units, and their carrying value.
The net present value is calculated by discounting an Discounts or premiums on financial instruments designated estimate of future cash flows by the Companys weighted as interest rate hedges are reflected as adjustments to average cost of capital.
If net realisable value is higher than interest payable.
net present value the net realisable value is compared to the carrying value.
Annual Report and Accounts 2004 LUMINAR PLC 37 INVESTMENTS Investments are stated at cost less amounts written off.
STOCKS Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
TAXATION UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates and laws that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been discounted.
LEASED ASSETS All leases are regarded as operating leases and the payments made under them are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO PENSION FUNDS DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES The pension costs charged against profits represent the amount of the contributions payable to the schemes in respect of the accounting period.
