qxp 4 3 05 1:00 pm Page 124 124 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS 2004 Annual Report 2004 Interim Report 2004 5 Fact Book 2004 Notice of AGM and Shareholder Information Booklet 2004 Report to Society Investing in the future Black Economic Empowerment Good Neighbours: Our Work With Communities Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles Optima Anglo Americans current affairs journal If you would like to receive copies of Anglo Americans publications, please write to: Investor and Corporate Affairs Department Anglo American plc 20 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AN, England Alternatively, publications can be ordered online at: http: www.
asp The 2004 Annual Review and the booklet containing the Notice of AGM and other shareholder information are available free of charge from the Company, its UK Registrars and South African Transfer Secretaries.
CHARITABLE PARTNERS This is just a selection of the charities which we have worked with in 2004: 7878v04 GC Rp p90-ibc#86609.
qxp 2 3 05 10:29 pm Page IBC1 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 IBC1 Designed and produced by The paper used in this report is made Addison Corporate Marketing.
from virgin wood fibre sourced from Printed by St. Ives Westerham Press.
It is a Totally Chlorine-Free TCF product.
co. uk ANGLO AMERICAN MEETING THE WORLDS NEEDS ANNUAL REVIEW 2004 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2004 flap1 ANGLO AMERICAN IS A GLOBAL LEADER IN MINING AND NATURAL RESOURCES.
OUR DIVERSIFIED PRODUCTS ARE ESSENTIAL PARTS OF MODERN LIFE.
ANGLO AMERICAN IS COMMITTED TO OPERATING IN A PROFITABLE, SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE WAY.
Contents Summary financial statements 01 Highlights of 2004 22 Summary directors report 02 Chairmans questions and answers 22 Summary corporate governance report 04 Precious 23 Consolidated profit and loss account 06 Metals and minerals 24 Summary consolidated balance sheet 08 Paper and packaging 24 Summary consolidated cash flow statement 25 Summary remuneration report 09 New ideas 29 Key financial data 10 Chief executives statement Other 14 Executive board 28 Independent auditors statement 15 Operating review 30 The business an overview 18 Our wider responsibilities 32 Shareholder information 20 The board ANGLO AMERICAN AT A GLANCE ADDING VALUE TO NATURAL RESOURCES NORTH AMERICA SOUTH AMERICA EUROPE Business profile Products and uses PRECIOUS PLATINUM The worlds largest primary producer of Primarily used in autocatalysts and jewellery.
platinum, producing 38% of the worlds Also used in chemical, electrical, medical, newly mined platinum production.
GOLD AngloGold Ashanti is the worlds No.
2 Used primarily for fabrication and gold producer.
It has 22 operations in ten countries.
Fabricated gold is used in jewellery, electronics, dentistry, medals and coins.
DIAMONDS fide Beers accounts for about 45% by value The majority of cuttable diamonds are of global rough diamond production.
The worlds largest supplier and marketer Some natural stones are used for industrial of gem diamonds.
purposes such as cutting and other applications.
METALS AND MINERALS Business profile Products and uses BASE METALS Comprises copper, nickel, zinc and mineral Copper is used primarily in wire and cable, sands operations.
also in brass tubing and pipes.
Operates in South America, southern Africa, Zinc is primarily used for galvanising.
Nickel is mostly used in the production of stainless steel.
FERROUS METALS Operations are mainly in southern Africa, Iron ore is the basic raw material used AND INDUSTRIES South America and Australia.
Anglo American holds the major interest Chrome, manganese and vanadium are in Kumba, a significant iron ore producer.
COAL Anglo Coal is one of the worlds largest private About 40% of all electricity generated globally sector coal producers and exporters.
Its operations are in South Africa, Australia, 70% of the worlds steel industry uses coal Colombia and Venezuela.
and it is an important fuel for other industries.
1 UK producer of aggregates and asphalt Tarmac is involved in the production of crushed and a leading producer of ready mixed concrete rock, sand, gravel, concrete and mortar, lime, and concrete products.
Its interests are primarily in the UK, continental Copebrs is a Brazilian producer of Europe and Brazil.
PAPER AND PACKAGING Business profile Products and uses PAPER AND PACKAGING Mondi is an integrated paper and Mondi manufactures office papers, packaging group.
packaging papers, board, converted It has operations and interests in Europe, packaging and newsprint.
Russia, South Africa, Asia and North America.
AFRICA ASIA & AUSTRALASIA Platinum Gold Diamonds Base Metals Ferrous Metals and Industries Coal Industrial Minerals Paper and Packaging GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 123 47.5 114 49.0 125 51.0 120 54.0 188 70.0 239 381 158 267 381 351 480 1,042 n Platinum 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 n Gold n Headline earnings per share n Diamonds Headline earnings n Dividends per share n Base Metals by business unit $ million US cents n Ferrous Metals and Industries n Coal n Industrial Minerals 4,688 4,647 4,792 4,785 7,110 n Paper and Packaging 633 819 572 299 217 286 284 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Capital expenditure Group EBITDA $ million by business unit $ million 14 Throughout this review, $ and dollar denote United States dollars.
1999, 2000 and 2001 figures have been restated for FRS 19.
Figures for the years 1999 to 2003 n Americas 45 15 have been restated for UITF 38. n South Africa n Rest of World See footnote 1 to the consolidated profit and loss account n Europe for the basis of the calculation of headline earnings.
See footnote 5 to key financial data for definition of EBITDA.
26 The 2004 Annual Review, the 2004 Annual Report and the Notice of Meeting, together with the shareholder Geographic headline earnings mix information booklet, are available on the corporate % website: www.
co. uk n n n n Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 01 HIGHLIGHTS OF 2004 Record results: headline earnings up 59% at $2,689 million: headline earnings per share up 57% at $1.88 Total profit for the year up 83% at $2,913 million Cash generation: EBITDA up by $2.3 billion at $7.1 billion Record Base and Ferrous Metals performances $1.5 billion of projects successfully commissioned, $4.7 billion project pipeline on track Ongoing optimisation of asset base: $2.1 billion of disposals, including Hudson Bay and stakes in Gold Fields and Terra.
Minera Sur Andes and Kumba acquisitions performing well Cost savings and efficiencies up 65% at $554 million Final dividend increased by 31% to 51 US cents.
Total dividend up 30% at 70 US cents COVER IMAGE Rapidly industrialising and urbanising China is fuelling one of the greatest resource booms in history.
Anglo Americans top-performing business units in 2004, Base and Ferrous Metals, which are growing producers of copper and iron ore, benefited from Chinas burgeoning growth.
The Group is also a leading supplier into China of precious commodities such as platinum group metals, diamonds and gold.
02 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS SIR MARK MOODY-STUART CHAIRMAN While the financial performance for in Syktyvkar in Russia for five years before taking 2004 was good, do you feel that control.
This gradualist approach gives us a better feel Q enough was done to strengthen the for the operating environment in new countries.
There was a controversy about Anglos Yes.
Our earnings were strong but this was not purely a judgement of political risk in South Africa function of commodity prices.
They reflect, for example, Q where do things now stand on this?
the value adding nature of the acquisitions made over the last four years especially Minera Sur Andes, The problem was never our perception of political risk Syktyvkar, Cerrejn and the fide Beers transaction.
but those of some people in the international capital These have produced a stronger and more balanced markets.
These concerns are largely the legacy portfolio.
Who, in the past, would have predicted the of the leaking of an early draft of the Mining pre-eminence of Latin America in our 2004 earnings?
Confidence has Nor, in a year of plenty, have we rested on our been returning as this memory has receded and this laurels.
We have realised a further $554 million in cost will be given momentum by the successful conversion savings.
Through the merger with Ashanti Goldfields, of old order mineral rights.
We remain committed AngloGolds resource base and growth prospects have to South Africa and are strongly supportive of the been strengthened.
Reorganisations within Anglo agreed scorecard approach in the Mining Act and the Platinum and Paper and Packaging have been carried need to deliver on it hence our big continuing out.
We launched a drive to encourage innovation and investment programme.
To an extent I can share the greater entrepreneurialism.
The fundamentals of the frustration of the South African government.
It has business are stronger than they were 12 months ago.
pursued exemplary macro-economic policies and deserves to have been rewarded with more foreign Many of the opportunities which Anglo direct investment.
is examining are in new geographies.
Q Do you think you are properly equipped Anglo is used to thinking about physical to manage the risks involved?
Are you Q as good at nurturing talent?
Actually, we have a strong project pipeline in very familiar regions southern Africa, South America, I would like to thank our employees for their eastern Europe and Australia.
We are also looking commitment in 2004.
During my site visits and at the at new geographies, chiefly China, Russia and India, centre I have been impressed by the calibre of Anglos since each has the potential to be a major growth people.
I like the fact that we typically entrust most market as well as a significant commodities producer.
senior operational posts to locally recruited managers.
Our approach has been to become involved, initially We have become much more strategic and proactive in a relatively limited way, while we seek better in creating a performance-driven culture, career and to understand the risks of doing business in each.
talent management, addressing shortcomings in our The board is very supportive of this and believes it is engagement with employees and in moving to a one of Anglos strengths.
When I went to China, for more diverse workforce.
We have been better at the example, I visited small Anglo businesses in quarrying traditional hard skills, but the board has identified and drilling equipment and was briefed on three other people issues as a strategic priority and we are now potential opportunities.
Similarly, we held a stake definitely moving in the right direction.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 03 What do you see as the non-financial Were there any major disappointments highlights of 2004?
in 2004 if so, how do you intend to Q Q rectify them?
First, Anglo became a signatory The increase in fatalities at our managed operations to the UN Global Compact the ten principles of which from 44 to 49 was of course a major disappointment.
we fully support and made all the preparations to There was a welcome further improvement in the lost become a party to the Voluntary Principles on Security time injury frequency rate of 23%, but we are not and Human Rights.
Secondly, our work on HIV AIDS prepared to be philosophical about the death of any continued to progress, with some 2,200 employees employee or contractor.
There is already an emphasis now on anti-retrovirals and an improved uptake of on improving safety at all sites, but it is evidently not voluntary counselling and testing.
Thus, we must continue to emphasise visible Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox process had felt leadership in the field of safety, focus on safety an enthusiastic take-up at site level, with some 30 for contractors who made up over half the 2004 assessments already under way.
Fourthly, we reorganised fatalities and seek to focus on leading indicators how we bring the strands of sustainable development such as near hits and tackling unsafe behaviour.
together and instituted a project to improve our We have made good progress over the last four calibration of sustainable development risk.
The benefits years and we will do our utmost to return to the of these changes will come through during 2005. path of improvement.
You are closely identified with What changes are planned in the sustainable development and corporate composition of the board?
Q responsibility how would you answer Q those who say it is a peripheral issue or, as in the recent Economist article, that Bill Nairn, our technical director, retired from business should just concentrate on profits the board at the end of 2004.
I am grateful for for shareholders?
the experience that he brought to the Group and especially his relentless focus on safety.
Sustainable development is absolutely central to the At the AGM, two non-executive directors will future acceptability of our business and to its ongoing be retiring: Sir David Scholey and Gran Lindahl.
Our businesses have high Sir David steps down after a long association with environmental and social impacts, many deplete a the Anglo Group, including serving as a director non-renewable albeit generally recyclable resource, since December 1999.
Gran has brought his and global concerns like climate change and HIV AIDS wide international experience and knowledge are highly relevant to us.
These issues reflect upon of sustainable development to our deliberations.
our licence to operate, our sustainability as an We shall miss them.
investment, our ability to attract the most talented recruits and our acceptability to governments and One new independent non-executive director, communities.
Moreover, our ability to understand Ralph Alexander, will be proposed at the AGM.
and address societal concerns is fundamental to He is an American citizen and is chief executive our good name and the value of that reputation.
He brings extensive experience of the energy business and has a strong international Are you concerned that other background.
Two new executive directors will also stakeholders, like governments be proposed: David Hathorn and Simon Thompson, Q and more assertive communities, respectively chief executives of the Paper and want to increase their share of the Packaging and Base Metals businesses.
Both have profits from your operations?
played a major part in the international expansion of the Group.
In addition, it is proposed that Ren Mdori Every enterprise faces tensions around how rewards be elected a director with effect from 1 June 2005. are shared investors, employees, suppliers and Ren, a French national, who has extensive experience customers all want their fair share.
In the natural of UK and US business cultures, will be joining us resources business there are more parties to the from The BOC Group plc, where he is finance director.
For much of the last 30 years mining has He will succeed Tony Lea as finance director in been a value destroyer for investors.
Governments September and Tony will leave the board in December.
tend to overlook the lean times when proposing new or higher taxes in years like this.
During 2005, Chile In relation to the Combined Code requirement and South Africa are both planning to decide upon to comply or explain I should mention that we a royalty regime.
Such taxes have implications for will briefly be non-compliant in that from June to competitiveness, investment and employment.
December less than half the board, excluding myself, Some communities feel they get a raw deal when will be independent non-executive directors.
I believe fiscal benefits are often only felt at a national level.
that this is fully justified in ensuring continuity and We seek to improve the local development effects a smooth handover between Tony and Ren.
of our businesses but it is important too for national governments to ensure that a proportion of tax revenues is shared with local people.
Mark Moody-Stuart Chairman 04 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 PRECIOUS Comprises our unique position in platinum, gold and diamonds AUTOCATALYSTS FOR CLEANER AIR DEMAND FOR PLATINUM WILL BE DRIVEN BY CHANGES IN EMISSIONS LEGISLATION Platinum group metals PGMs sustainable and clean energy for transport, buildings PLATINUM do more to improve our quality and the household.
of life and clean up our environment than simply PGMs are stronger and last longer than other reducing vehicle exhaust metals, resisting corrosion and withstanding higher emissions.
They produce more durable, lasting physical and chemical products in which little of the metal is lost in use and properties make them useful in areas as a large proportion is recoverable at the end of the diverse as healthcare and waste reduction.
Today, about 40% of autocatalyst PGMs are recycled from scrap.
Since the 1970s, autocatalysts containing PGMs This proportion would grow if legislation was passed have cut down the pollutants emitted by automobile to ensure the collection of scrap from dealers.
engines carbon monoxide, hydrocarbons and oxides of nitrogen.
The use of PGMs in petroleum refining These unusual and precious metals also have a role has reduced the sulphur content in fuel and the need in the world of medicine.
Platinum is used in catheters for lead additives.
and pacemakers on account of its purity, conductivity, durability, biological compatibility and resistance to There is now a strong drive to reduce emissions of corrosion.
Cancer treatments containing platinum, greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide, which such as Cysplatin and Carboplatin, are stepping up are produced by the burning of fossil and wood fuels.
As that includes traditional electricity generation, most auto manufacturers are no longer pursuing the PGMs have enhanced our quality of life by helping rechargeable electric car of the future.
Instead, they to clean up and preserve our environment.
They will are developing fuel cells that use hydrogen and continue to do so, playing a growing part in the oxygen, emission-free and in abundant supply.
This development of new technologies.
technology will harness PGMs to provide renewable, www.
com has more information on Anglo Platinums operations Left: In the 30 years since the first car fitted with a catalytic converter rolled off the production line, autocatalysts containing PGMs have led to improvements in air quality by drastically cutting down exhaust pollutants.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 05 AN EXPANDING INVESTMENT SPREADING FRONTIERS AngloGold Ashanti is becoming GOLD more active in regions not normally associated with gold mining, like Laos, Mongolia and the Philippines.
This is an essential way of growing the visit www.
for more information on our independently managed The global gold industry faces the likely persistence associate, fide Beers of a weak dollar, with stronger operating currencies and a stable or improving gold price.
New mine gold production may decline from around 2008 onwards, at least among Western producers, so staying competitive will demand contained production costs DIAMOND TRILOGY and a strong project pipeline.
THE PAST, THE PRESENT, The first response to these challenges will be to THE FUTURE deliver real, sustained value from existing operations.
That includes ensuring that the former Ashanti Goldfields mines, long starved of working capital, While The Diamond Trading Company DTC sorts, DIAMONDS realise their reserve, margin and growth potential.
values and then sells rough gemstones, it is also responsible for driving consumer demand for Equally important is the drive to expand AngloGold diamonds around the world.
Every now and Ashantis reserve and resource base to ensure then one of its regional marketing initiatives continued growth over the next decade.
To do this, fires the public imagination so successfully the company has established a new business team that it is then rolled out in other parts of the that seeks out partnerships with junior exploration globe.
The Trilogy concept is one of these.
and mining companies in regions outside the worlds mainstream mining areas.
Trilogy was originally conceived in 2000 for implementation in the US, a huge market which In these partnerships, AngloGold Ashanti has the right accounts for half of all diamond jewellery sales to convert its minority stake into a majority holding throughout the world.
The underlying idea is if and when a project reveals the potential to become three-stone jewellery, with each stone representing a large deposit.
the past, present and future of a couples relationship.
A $20 million marketing campaign, using press, Over the past year the company has diversified in TV, magazines and outdoor posters was launched this way into regions such as Laos, Mongolia and across the country.
The results were so encouraging that the DTC has since exported the visit www.
com for more information concept to Europe, where the Trilogy campaign has on AngloGold Ashantis gold operations been adapted for use in the UK, France and Italy.
Most recently, the campaign has been redrawn for Japan, where it has led to a resurgence of interest in diamond jewellery in what is the worlds second most important diamond market.
Left: In recent years, After some years of lagging behind in the market AngloGold Ashanti has for luxury goods, diamonds are once again competing invested considerable successfully.
Retail diamond sales around the world resources in its mergers and acquisitions passed the $60 billion mark for the first time in activities and exploration 2004.
It is expected that nearly $6 billion of that programmes outside was for Trilogy products 10%, in other words, of the worlds mature of the total retail market for diamond jewellery.
Here, in Mongolia, the company has an exploration team Campaigns such as these will help fide Beers achieve on the ground and is its strategic goal of growing global demand for acquiring land in several diamond jewellery by 50% over the next ten years.
06 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 METALS AND MINERALS Comprises our interests in base metals, ferrous metals, coal and industrial minerals BASE METALS MAKING CONNECTIONS BASE METALS AND TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION An entirely new process for extracting zinc After pilot plant testing at Anglo American Research from basic ore has been developed and put into Laboratories in Johannesburg, but before completing commercial operation by Anglo Base Metals at the final industrial scale facility, Anglo Base built a its Skorpion zinc mine in southern Namibia.
training and demonstration plant at Skorpion.
This not only proved the viability of the process but The remote Skorpion deposit is made up of an also provided an opportunity to expose Skorpions unusual combination of zinc oxide minerals, which employees to the new technology at an early stage.
do not lend themselves to extraction by conventional technology.
For Anglo Base Metals to exploit the deposits commercial potential, an alternative form of processing had to be found.
New technology was developed, over an eight-year period, in partnership with Reunion Mining subsequently acquired by Anglo American and Spains Tcnicas Reunidas.
It required the integration of new leaching and neutralisation techniques with a customised solvent extraction purification process.
Left: New technology developed over the past decade has helped make Skorpion one of the worlds lowest-cost visit our website at www.
co. uk for more information on our base metals operations zinc producers.
FERROUS STRENGTH IN FERROUS METALS METALS AND INDUSTRIES IRON ORE IS ESSENTIAL TO MODERN LIFE In 2003, Anglo American acquired a controlling Demand for iron ore by the worlds steel markets interest in Kumba, one of the worlds leading remains strong, driven chiefly by sustained offtake iron ore producers.
The acquisition has opened from China.
Chinese imports absorbed almost 25% up an exciting new area of business, with of global iron ore production in 2004.
That could significant growth potential.
grow to 50% over the next 20 years, with much of the increase translating directly into growth in world demand.
In order to take advantage of escalating iron ore demand, Kumba has a vigorous expansion programme in place.
In South Africa, it aims to lift Northern Cape iron ore production from 27 million tonnes per annum to 46 million tonnes per annum over the next ten years, principally from the Sishen Expansion and Right: With world iron Sishen South projects.
Elsewhere in Africa, a preore and steel markets likely to remain strong feasibility study on the high-grade Faleme iron ore for the foreseeable deposit in Senegal is expected to be completed in future, Kumba has the coming year.
embarked on a vigorous visit our website at www.
co. uk expansion programme for more information on our ferrous metals operations over the next ten years.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 07 LIGHTING UP THE WORLD NEARLY 40% OF THE WORLDS POWER IS PRODUCED FROM COAL As energy demand and prices visit our website at COAL continue to rise, coal remains the www.
com worlds most abundant, affordable for more information on and secure fuel source.
With the our coal operations help of technology, it is also becoming a cleaner fuel.
Higher prices have moderated the dash for gas among some electricity generators and new coal-fired power stations are proliferating, particularly in Asia and the US.
Coal produces nearly 40% of the worlds electricity.
It fuels 70% of global steel production and is key to other basic industries, such as cement manufacture.
Over the next 30 years, world energy demand will almost to zero, they also open the way to Above: A low-energy grow by 60%, according to the International Energy light bulb with the help viable hydrogen-based energy including fuel Agency, which believes that fossil fuels will supply of technology, coal is cell technology.
Developing economies like becoming a cleaner fuel.
China and India will create much of this additional Anglo American plays an important role in this demand.
Their new power stations are mostly greening of coal.
Anglo Coals Roger Wicks serves coal-based, with higher efficiencies and lower as chairman of the World Coal Institute, which emissions than many plants in the developed world.
has steered much of the debate and subsequent response.
The company itself is engaged in various Because they use less fuel, supercritical power collaborative cleaner-coal projects, including one plants produce correspondingly fewer harmful in Victoria, Australia, that will convert coal into emissions.
While new combustion and gasification gas and diesel.
techniques will eventually reduce emission levels EXPANDING SURFACES the country.
Certain other markets, such as the UK, INDUSTRIAL MINERALS are more inclined to use asphalt in installations like EUROPEAN car parks.
Polands severe winters make concrete, with better resistance to frost and salt, a more CONSTRUCTION popular choice.
As the Polish economy continues to develop, Car parks and shopping centres are typical users Tarmacs local quarrying operations have of concrete paving, but Polish customers range from benefited from public spending on road and rail road-builders who use it for peripheral surfaces infrastructure often funded by the European to individual homeowners.
At the same time, its concrete products business has profited from a healthy level of private construction.
Like consumers elsewhere in central and eastern Europe, Poles are becoming more affluent.
So new commercial building often takes the form of retail developments, like the recently-completed IKEA hypermarket right at Janki in the suburbs of Warsaw.
While the architects originally specified natural stone for the external paving, they were persuaded that premium concrete pavers could achieve similar functional and aesthetic standards.
Tarmac made its first acquisition in Poland during 1997.
Today it employs some 640 people in a Left: The new Ikea business that has two halves sand and gravel, store in Warsaw, Poland, visit our website at www.
co. uk for more and concrete products.
From a standing start, it has with paving supplied information on our industrial minerals operations become the largest producer of concrete paving in by Tarmac.
08 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 PAPER AND PACKAGING PACKAGED GOODS INNOVATIVE NEW GOODS AND TECHNOLOGY Innovation plays a role in all Group businesses in one form or another but nowhere more so than in Paper and Packaging.
The stream of new products from this division invariably offers novel advantages for a specific client group, or more generic energy-saving and environmental benefits.
PAPER AND PACKAGING A compelling example is Mondi Packagings ONE Sack, a new one-ply bag for powdered goods of all types particularly cement.
Large paper bags have traditionally been made from two, sometimes three, layers of paper, depending on the weight of the goods being packaged.
The ONE sack uses one, but with the strength and stiffness needed to deliver Drastic reduction in energy consumption can be top performance.
achieved in accordance with the Kyoto Protocol.
ONE sack is easily filled, loaded on pallets and stored.
Innovation of a different kind is represented by the Because it consumes less resources it reduces neoSteam pouch from Mondi Packaging Flexibles, packaging costs and is cheaper to transport and which is revolutionary active packaging for dispose.
Customers have been quick to appreciate microwave steaming.
The revolution lies in a new these advantages.
In Austria, for example, virtually steam valve that can withstand high temperatures, the entire cement industry has switched over to and allows the contents to steam-cook instead of ONE sacks.
The result is shorter cooking times and maximum retention of flavour and texture.
Left: Mondi is an Mondi Packaging Coatings new Direct Lidding integrated paper and technology also improves on the system it replaces, As electronic components get faster and smaller, packaging group with while being more environmentally friendly.
Glass jars they become sensitive to interference damage from operations stretching from the Americas to normally have to be chemically pre-treated before external energy sources.
They must be protected China.
Mondi Business they are sealed.
Direct Lidding allows a secure seal during manufacture, storage and transport or their Paper is one of the to be placed directly on chemically untreated glass or performance may be affected.
Mondi Packaging largest producers of plastic.
The process is easier, more cost-competitive Coating has perfected a form of corrugated board cut-size paper in Europe and serves markets on and, because fewer chemicals are needed, kinder to packaging by offering an Electro Static Discharge liner five continents, while the environment.
Parastat which creates a high level of shielding Mondi Packaging has and dissipates any charge along the packaging 124 production plants, INSULAID multilayer facings, used in foam surface.
It also offers physical and moisture including more than 100 in Europe.
Featured insulation products, are another advanced product protection and is fully recyclable.
is the ONE Sack, a new from Mondi Packaging Coating.
Due to the diffusion one-ply, high-strength Visit www.
co. uk for more information on our tightness of the facings, these allow the fabrication bag, used particularly paper and packaging operations of very thin panels with excellent insulation values.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 09 NEW IDEAS Innovation is one of our most precious natural resources Anglo American is renowned for its formidable RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT in-house technical capacity.
The Anglo Technical Division ATD and Anglo American Research Laboratories are a powerful multi-disciplinary resource enabling Anglo American to operate at the forefront of innovation.
Their work enhances the value of the Groups mining, metallurgical and industrial businesses and assists with exploration activities and the management of mineral reserves and resources.
Important areas of social responsibility like environmental stewardship, safety and industrial health have all benefited from their contributions.
Anglo American strongly encourages the sharing of best practice.
A good example is the collaborative development of one of the worlds longest single-drop rope-hoisting systems to raise ore from ultra-deep levels.
This drew together AngloGold Ashanti, ATD An important role was played in the development and Scaw Metals, the Ferrous Metals and Industries of the super-conducting quantum interference device subsidiary that manufactured the rope.
SQUID, which measures minute changes in the earths magnetic field.
This offers considerable Current research initiatives include how to leach advantages over competing systems in finding gold without using cyanide, new hydrometallurgical certain buried targets, such as nickel sulphides.
approaches to base metals recovery, and the use of microwaves in solid-state reduction processes.
At the leading edge, Anglo American monitors Other work concentrates on combining biological developments in nanotechnology, the science of and electrochemical processes in water purification extremely small particles.
Nanotechnology allows and how to monitor stope stability in open pits.
production of new materials with physical and chemical properties that would not have been In exploration, Anglo American carries out significant possible using conventional methods.
One application research and development in the areas of cryogenic could be the use of ruthenium, a platinum group metal, electromagnetic technology, airborne gravity in thin-film photovoltaic cells.
Another might see zinc gradiometry, radio frequency and radar applications.
oxide being used in flat-panel electronic displays.
Promoting innovation is now a strategic business Below: The Anglo American Group has a long tradition of research imperative.
Mondis internet-based Innovation Zone, and technical innovation often developing ideas in-house and carrying them right through to commercial application.
for example, allows employees around the world to share ideas about cost savings and market opportunities.
Indeed, all business units have programmes in place to achieve these goals.
Anglo American has also developed a formal technology management process.
This was pilot-tested in a recent Group-wide exercise to identify energy conservation opportunities.
A subsequent report highlighted consumption and conservation targets and identified energy generation opportunities.
One result is a commitment to design in energysaving measures at an early stage of new projects.
BREAKING DOWN THE SILOS GROUP-WIDE KNOWLEDGE SHARING IS ESSENTIAL 10 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 CONTINUED GROWTH TONY TRAHAR CHIEF EXECUTIVE One of the dominant features of 2004 was the increased demand for a range of commodities as Chinas industrialising economy continued to consume more raw materials.
Copper, nickel, zinc, coal and iron ore markets all benefited materially and a number of these commodities reached their highest price levels for many years.
As a result of these strong conditions, as well as rising platinum, gold and diamond prices, Anglo American reported record headline earnings of $2.69 billion and headline earnings per share increased by 57% to $1.88 per share.
Nonetheless, the year was dominated by two major influences volatile global markets, largely because of the uncertain outlook in the Middle East: and the possibility of a marked slowdown in Chinas economic growth rate.
During the second, and again in the fourth quarter of the year, markets grew concerned that official Chinese attempts to slow down excessive investment and growth would result in a hard landing.
During each of these periods, metals prices responded by dropping sharply and then rebounding fairly quickly.
Chinese GDP growth is now projected to average around 8% for 2005.
In line with the boards policy of progressively increasing dividends, the board has decided to increase the final dividend by 12 cents to 51 cents per share, resulting in a total dividend of 70 cents per share for 2004, up 30%.
STRATEGY Since our primary London listing in mid-1999, Anglo American has grown by over 70%, with a present market capitalisation now approaching $38 billion.
Our strong cash generation has been matched by one of the largest capital expenditure programmes in the industry.
Our existing $4.7 billion project pipeline and more than $8 billion in unapproved projects, spread across all our business units and geographies, provide an excellent platform for growth going forward.
We will continue to enhance and add value to Anglos portfolio of world-class assets in all areas: in particular, through: Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 11 Securing the most competitive cost of capital 123 47.5 114 49.0 125 51.0 120 54.0 188 70.0 Owning world-class assets Anglos high-calibre employees Innovation and entrepreneurship Development of world-class technology Maintaining high standards of sustainable development Becoming the business partner of choice to suppliers, customers and key stakeholders.
Our strategy for future investment remains focused 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 around the three key areas that make up our portfolio, namely Precious Commodities, Metals and Minerals n Headline earnings per share and Paper and Packaging.
n Dividends per share US cents ACQUISITIONS AND ORGANIC GROWTH Although Anglo American remains cautious about significantly bolstered by an increase in advertising valuations at this point in the cycle, the Group programmes by sightholders and their downstream continues to examine expansion and acquisition trade partners.
Following years of underperformance opportunities in all its business sectors.
in terms of market share, diamonds are now competing successfully with other luxury goods.
At the retail level, The following overview of our business units sales of diamonds worldwide exceeded $60 billion covers key developments: summaries of operating for the first time.
performances are contained on pages 15 to 17 of this review.
An important breakthrough took place in July when fide Beers announced that it had reached a settlement Platinum with the US Department of Justice for the resolution We are actively focusing on achieving further business of a longstanding case against fide Beers in respect optimisation in Anglo Platinum.
The strong level of the of industrial diamonds.
The resolution of the case South African rand continues to materially affect the underscores the companys commitment to be fully rate of expansion and also operating costs when legally compliant throughout the world.
The projects that have been earmarked for development will continue to be In December, fide Beers announced that it had secured reviewed in light of the strong rand.
a 25 year renewal of all four mining leases in Botswana, on a coterminous basis.
fide Beers and the European Despite the loss of production due to industrial action Commission are in the final stages of a constructive during October, arising out of wage negotiations, dialogue to address the Commissions concerns over Anglo Platinum achieved its 2004 target of producing aspects of the five year trade agreement between 2.45 million ounces of refined platinum.
The company fide Beers and Russian diamond producer Alrosa.
recently established a co-operative joint venture contract with Sichuan Mineral Resource Company Base Metals to conduct exploration for platinum group metals On the back of high base metals prices and record in China's Sichuan Province.
production of copper, nickel, zinc and mineral sands products, Base Metals achieved record headline Gold earnings of just over $1 billion.
The acquisition of One of the most significant transactions of the year Minera Sur Andes was a major contributor to this was the merger of AngloGold and Ashanti Goldfields, performance with headline earnings of $430 million.
which was completed in April.
The merger has resulted A significant achievement during the year was the in a substantial increase in gold reserves against Skorpion zinc mine in Namibia commencing commercial a background of a diminishing global reserve base.
production in May and achieving 95% of design AngloGold Ashanti continues to pursue further growth capacity by year end.
Commissioning of the opportunities in new frontiers such as Laos, the $654 million Collahuasi Rosario Project in Chile Philippines and Russia, in partnership with junior commenced in April, some five weeks ahead of mining and exploration companies.
AngloGold Ashanti, schedule and under budget.
The project rapidly in which Anglo American holds a 51% stake, is the achieved design capacity and will enable Collahuasi to worlds second largest gold mining company in terms maintain production of copper in concentrate at a long of production.
term average rate of 400,000 tonnes per annum.
Diamonds Codemin, in Brazil, became a wholly-owned subsidiary fide Beers strategy of Supplier of Choice, which following the purchase of the remaining 10% from the focuses on driving demand in the diamond industry, International Finance Corporation, and the expansion continues to be implemented successfully.
Central project was completed on time and on budget and will to this has been the realignment of fide Beers ramp up to full capacity during the first quarter of relationship with its sightholders, a process that is 2005.
In line with Base Metals strategy of focusing now substantially complete and that has brought on fewer, larger, lower cost assets, its 25% stake about considerable benefits for fide Beers and the in Nkomati Nickel was disposed of in February for diamond industry as a whole.
fide Beers $180 million $37 million and Hudson Bay in Canada was sold a year advertising and marketing spend has been for $257 million.
12 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 Coal 14.6 16.2 16.8 18.8 20.5 23.3 24.9 31.8 In December, Anglo American and Mitsui announced 30% the approval of the $653 million Dawson Complex, 25% which will include the recapitalisation of the existing Group:20.4% 2004 operation at Moura in central Queensland, Australia, 20% Group:17.3% 2003 and the establishment of two additional operations 15% on adjacent tenures.
This will increase production by 10% 5.7 million tonnes per annum over Mouras existing saleable production of 7 million tonnes per annum.
5% In October, Anglo American and Kumba signed Heads 0% of Agreement that could lead to the development of Platinum Industrial Gold Paper and Ferrous Diamonds Coal Base a major coking coal mine in central Queensland.
Minerals Packaging Metals and Metals Industries Improved cash flow returns In August, Anglo Coal and Eyesizwe announced that they were entering into a 50:50 joint venture Cash flow return is EBITDA divided by average total capital.
to mine the Arnot North coal reserves, known as Mafube Colliery, and mining has commenced.
A new opencast operation, the Isibonelo Colliery, is being developed to provide Sasol with 5 million tonnes of coal per annum.
Production is due to commence in mid-2005.
Anglo Coal and BHP Billiton are jointly investigating the proposed expansion of coal Industrial Minerals resources in the Western Complex in South Africa.
In the UK, Anglo Industrial Minerals new cement plant at Buxton commenced operating in March and is ramping In Colombia, the approved expansion at Cerrejn up to full capacity of 800,000 tonnes per annum.
from 22 million to 28 million tonnes per annum The project cost of 110 million was 5 million below is on schedule and should be achieved by 2007. budget.
In China, the Yang Quarry, situated 140 kilometres from Shanghai and the closest reserve of Paper and Packaging top-quality asphalt aggregates to Chinas commercial In April, Anglo Americans wholly-owned subsidiary capital, commenced production at the end of the year.
Mondi acquired the remaining 30% interest in Production will be ramped up during 2005.
Following Frantschach for a total consideration of $390 million.
completion of the Gois project in 2003, Copebrs The acquisitions of Copamexs industrial packaging almost doubled its contribution on the back of buoyant businesses renamed Mondimex and Roman Brazilian fertiliser markets.
Bauernfeind were completed in the first quarter of 2004 and are performing according to expectations, Ferrous Metals and Industries having strengthened Mondis position in the North With global steel production surpassing 1 billion tonnes American and central European markets respectively.
for the first time, the contribution from Ferrous Metals and Industries operations increased more than In November, Mondi announced a major restructuring fourfold.
Regarding Kumbas Hope Downs iron ore focused on global product lines, namely Mondi Business project in Australia, which has been the subject of Paper and Mondi Packaging.
The reorganisation has a dispute with a local partner, Kumba is appealing a streamlined and rebranded the existing businesses recent arbitration decision.
Subject to Kumbas rights under the Mondi name, allowing the group to improve its of appeal, the process for determining a fair value, at visibility to customers and to reduce its overhead costs.
which the local partner can elect to acquire Kumbas project interest, has commenced.
Until Kumbas participation in the project is finally resolved, it continues to perform its contractual obligations in respect of the project.
SAFETY AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT It is with deep regret that we report the deaths of 28 contractors and 21 employees in accidents at our operations during the year.
This represented 250 279 200 335 250 554 an increase of five deaths compared with 2003, following four years of consistent decline.
Such accidents are wholly unacceptable and we will be redoubling our efforts to eliminate them.
It was encouraging, however, that the lost time injury frequency rate improved by 23% which indicates success in embedding safer behaviour at site level.
We have made significant progress in addressing the sustainable development agenda, including launching our Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox, making 2002 2003 2004 strides in improving local business development An ongoing cost savings story US$ million and initiating a pilot sustainable development risk n Targeted n Achieved management process.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 13 SOUTH AFRICA: 40% BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT 35% During the year several developments took place 30% concerning the legislative framework governing the 25% transformation process in South Africas mining 20% industry.
Most notably, the Mineral and Petroleum 15% Resources Development Act, which aims to make 10% transformation effective across a broad front including 5% human resources and community development, as well 0% as employment equity came into effect on 1 May H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 H1 H2 2004.
All South African mining operations are focused 2001 2002 2003 2004 on the implementation of this Act.
Anglo American has submitted a number of applications to convert old Gearing Net debt total capital order mineral rights into new order rights.
The Group hopes to be able to report progress in this regard later in the year.
OUTLOOK The outlook for the year ahead is very dependent During the year the South African government confirmed upon growth prospects for Organisation for Economic that royalties in terms of the Royalty Bill will become Co-operation and Development OECD countries payable only in 2009: a second draft of the Royalty Bill and China.
While the leading indicators for the OECD is expected to be unveiled in the future.
currently point to some slowing of industrial output, China continues to grow strongly and will remain a We have adopted a comprehensive approach to vital market for many of our commodities.
On the transformation in South Africa, including the supply side, global output is generally set to increase establishment of a Transformation Committee, and much will depend on the industry maintaining which has been integrated with all the business units capital discipline in the face of higher commodity activities.
Procurement remains an important area prices.
A key challenge for the Group will be to of focus: over the last year we spent the equivalent continue improving operating efficiencies and cost of $900 million on business development and the control against a background of volatile currencies procurement of goods and services from black-owned and, in particular, a weak US dollar.
In the meantime, businesses, up 62% on the previous year.
Anglo Americans geographic and commodity diversity, its significant project pipeline, its disciplined acquisition Mondi South Africa concluded two significant process and strong cash generation will continue empowerment transactions during 2004.
in June, a joint venture was formed with Shanduka Resources formerly MCI Resources in its integrated OUR EMPLOYEES newsprint business, with Mondi retaining a 58% At the end of 2004, Bill Nairn retired as technical interest and, secondly, Mondi disposed of 42% of director.
I would like to thank Bill for his long and its $370 million South African packaging businesses dedicated service to the Group.
He has been succeeded to Shanduka, effective 1 January 2005.
These as technical director by Tony Redman, who is also empowerment transactions allowed for further chairman of Anglo Coal, and who has been appointed interests in the newsprint and packaging businesses to the Executive Board.
In February 2005, we announced to be set aside for broad based participation by Mondi the appointment of Lazarus Zim as chief executive South Africa employees and relevant communities.
officer and Godfrey Gomwe as chief operating officer of Anglo American Corporation of South Africa.
DISPOSALS Lazarus will also chair the South Africa Transformation During 2004 a number of disposals were made.
These Committee and has joined the Executive Board.
Finally, included Anglo Americans 20% stake in Gold Fields my appreciation and thanks go to all our employees Limited for $1.18 billion, the remaining interest in worldwide who, through their hard work and dedication, FirstRand Limited for $47 million and the Groups have helped make this a record year for Anglo American.
49% stake in Terra Industries Inc for $255 million.
In line with Base Metals strategy of focusing on fewer, larger, lower cost assets, its 25% stake in Nkomati Nickel was disposed of in February for $37 million and Hudson Bay in Canada was sold for $257 million in December.
Anglo American and BHP A J Trahar Billiton have recently announced the sale of their Chief Executive respective 40% and 60% shareholdings in Samancor Chrome for an enterprise value of $469 million.
The sale will be effective 1 April 2005, subject to obtaining regulatory approvals.
14 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 EXECUTIVE BOARD The executive board is the key co-ordinating management body.
It is responsible for implementing strategies approved by the plc board, monitoring operating results, prioritising allocation of capital, technical and human resources and establishing best management practice.
Left to right: standing Russell King, Lazarus Zim, Simon Thompson, and David Hathorn, seated Barry Davison, Tony Lea, Tony Trahar, and Tony Redman TONY TRAHAR Anglo American at Vaal Reefs gold mine before moving See page 20 to the Anglo Coal division in 1979, where he was appointed managing director in 1996 and chairman in BARRY DAVISON 2002.
In January 2005, Tony took up the position of See page 20 group technical director of Anglo American, retaining the chairmanship of Anglo Coal.
Tony is a member of TONY LEA Anglo Americans Investment and S&SD Committees.
See page 20 SIMON THOMPSON DAVID HATHORN MA BCom, CA SA, CFA 45.
Simon joined Minorco in 1995 as head of project 42.
David qualified as a chartered accountant in 1987 finance, moving to So Paulo in 1997, to become and joined Anglo American Corporate Finance in 1989. president of Minorco Brasil.
In 1999, he became CEO From 1993 to 1995, he was finance director of Mondi of Anglo Americans newly formed Zinc Division before Europe, became general manager of Mondi Europe being appointed CEO of Anglo Base Metals in 2001. in 1996, CEO of Mondi Europe in 2000 and finally Simon is a member of Anglo Americans Investment chairman and CEO of the Mondi group in 2004.
Committee, is chairman of Anglo Industrial Minerals and David is a member of Anglo Americans Investment Anglo Exploration and a director of AngloGold Ashanti.
Committee and a director of DB Investments.
LAZARUS ZIM RUSSELL KING MComm BA Hons 44.
Lazarus was appointed chief executive of Anglo 47.
Russell held a variety of business and functional American Corporation of South Africa Limited AACSA responsibilities in the UK and Australia, with ICI plc.
He joined AACSA as deputy From 1997 to 2001 he was managing director of CEO in 2003.
Before joining Anglo American, he was Orica Consumer Products.
He joined Anglo American managing director of MTN International where he led in July 2001, as executive vice president, group all MTN operations outside South Africa.
From 1994 human resources and business development, and to 2001, he held several positions in MIH where is responsible for sustainable development issues.
he became CEO of MIH South Africa responsible for M-Net, SuperSport, MultiChoice South Africa DSTV TONY REDMAN and Oracle Air Time Sales.
He began his career in MSc small business development in the early 1980s.
Tony worked for Anglo American on the Zambian Copperbelt from 1970 to 1974.
In 1976, he rejoined Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 15 OPERATING REVIEW PLATINUM GOLD DIAMONDS Business Unit head: Business Unit head: fide Beers managing director: Ralph Havenstein Bobby Godsell Gary Ralfe Contribution to the Groups: Contribution to the Groups: Contribution to the Groups: Operating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals Headline earnings Headline earnings Headline earnings $ $ $ 12 % 537m 6 % 263m 13 % 586m $ $ $ 9 % 239m 6 % 158m 14 % 381m Anglo Platinums operating profit AngloGold Ashanti's operating profit Anglo Americans share of fide Beers rose by 24% to $537 million, largely before exceptional items was 29% operating profit increased by 4% due to improved prices and higher lower at $263 million.
The rise was partially offset by a strong rand, which The average spot price was $409 Global retail sales of diamond increased costs in dollar terms.
per ounce, compared with $363 in jewellery were about 6% higher than 2003.
The strengthening of the rand the previous year in local currency The average price for all metals by some 15%, however, meant that and, because of the continued sold rose by 25.9% to $1,194 per the South African gold price enjoyed weakening of the dollar, about 8% platinum ounce equivalent, due no benefit.
Full year sales mainly to higher platinum, rhodium by The Diamond Trading Company, and nickel prices.
Gold production rose by 8%, to just over the marketing arm of fide Beers, were 6 million ounces, reflecting the merger $5,695 million, 3% higher than in Improved smelting recoveries and with Ashanti Goldfields, and higher 2003.
Rough diamond prices rose additional production from new operations production in Australia and the US.
helped to increase refined platinum was offset by the sale of Jerritt Canyon production by 6% to 2.45 million ounces, in the US, the closure of Australia's fide Beers group diamond production, in spite of a two week strike in October.
Union Reefs and reduced South African including joint ventures in Botswana and The strike, safety stoppages and nonproduction.
Cash costs rose by 25% to Namibia, was 47 million carats, 3 million achievement of certain efficiency targets $268 per ounce, mainly due to stronger carats 7% more than in 2003. meant Anglo Platinum did not contain operating currencies and lower grades.
Debswanas production rose by 2% to costs as planned, but cost performance over 31 million carats, a new record.
has been encouraging and sustainable In addition to current growth projects At Namdeb, output grew by 28% to improvements are being realised.
that will maintain AngloGold Ashantis nearly 1.9 million carats, including its production profile of some 6.5 million highest ever level of marine production.
Anglo Platinum is confident that demand ounces a year through to around 2012, for platinum will remain robust.
However, exploration and acquisition will grow the The weakness of the dollar, the currency the continuing strength of the rand may reserve and resource base further, not in which diamonds are sold, has put cause further delays in Anglo Platinums least in new regions such as Russia, fide Beers older and more marginal mines extensive expansion programme.
Laos, the Philippines, Mongolia and in South Africa under continued pressure.
The platinum price is expected to remain This year is likely to be more challenging firm during 2005, supported by strong Gold jewellery demand improved in the for the diamond industry.
The price of palladium will be Middle East, South East Asia and China the industry transformation that has taken determined rather more by Russian supply and was sustained in India.
In 2005, place over the last few years, there is patterns, even though demand may much will depend on the dollar's fortunes, growing evidence that diamonds are now remain firm.
with expectations that the gold price will beginning to compete favourably with remain around present levels.
16 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 BASE METALS FERROUS METALS COAL AND INDUSTRIES Business Unit head: Business Unit head: Business Unit head: Simon Thompson Philip Baum John Wallington Contribution to the Groups: Contribution to the Groups: Contribution to the Groups: Operating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals Headline earnings Headline earnings Headline earnings $ $ $ 28 % 1,275m 20 % 895m 11 % 487m $ $ $ 39 % 1,042m 18 % 480m 13 % 351m Anglo Base Metals raised operating Ferrous Metals and Industries lifted Anglo Coal's operating profit profits, before exceptional items, by operating profit before exceptional increased by 46% to $487 million.
346% to $1,275 million on the back of items by 330% to a record $895 The increase was due mainly to record production of copper, nickel, million, with the help of improved higher export prices and a 3% zinc and mineral sands products prices for iron ore, manganese, increase in sales.
and significantly higher base metals ferrochrome, steel and vanadium.
Strong demand growth and Coal demand was strong during 2004 a weakening US currency propelled Iron ore producer Kumba, with $205 million and prices increased markedly.
Higher base metals prices to multi-year highs.
operating profit before exceptional items, prices and increased production at benefited from an average 19% annual most mines saw operating profit The copper divisions operating increase in dollar prices from 1 April.
Higher for South African-sourced coal rise profit before exceptional items was output at Scaw Metals saw its operating by 83% to $244 million.
$1,046 million following record profit increase to $101 million.
Samancor attributable copper production and enjoyed improved market conditions and Operating profit for the Australian a higher average copper price.
raised the attributable share of its operating operations fell by 39% to $79 million, profit to $236 million.
Highveld Steel had a mainly as a result of an eight month The nickel, niobium and mineral sands record year, with an operating profit of interruption of production at Moranbah division lifted operating profit to $168 million, mainly due to higher prices North mine, following a major roof collapse.
Rutile and zircon production and increased South African sales volumes.
Hedging reduced some of the adverse grew by 16% and 28% respectively as Improved product and contracting results effects of the stronger Australian dollar.
Namakwa Sands recovered from the in the Americas and Asia Pacific contributed after-effects of the mineral separation to Boart Longyears operating profit of Operating profit at the South American plant fire in the second half of 2003.
operations rose by 134% to $164 million on the back of significant price increases The zinc division made an operating profit In February 2005, Anglo American and and sales volume growth.
Cerrejn before exceptional items of $38 million.
BHP Billiton announced that they had continues to expand its operations, and During the year, Skorpion mine entered reached agreement for the sale of their feasibility studies on further expansions commercial production, achieving 95% of respective 40% and 60% shareholding at Cerrejn and Carbones del Guasare design capacity by year end.
In December, in Samancor Chrome for an enterprise are under way.
Hudson Bay was sold for $257 million.
With Moranbah North back in operation, A weaker dollar and low metals inventories Ferrous metals prices may soften in the improved production is expected in should provide a solid support to dollarcoming year as Chinese demand for steel 2005.
Metallurgical coal prices have denominated prices.
Nonetheless, some slows, and the persistent strength of risen significantly again in negotiations base metals markets could move towards the rand will continue to affect margins.
for 2005, and high prices for thermal balance or even into surplus in the second Ferrous Metals and Industries will continue to coals are expected to continue.
half as price-induced supply increases reshape its portfolio around core businesses, gather pace.
while it increases iron ore output and improves margins through greater operating efficiencies and cost savings.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 17 INDUSTRIAL MINERALS PAPER AND PACKAGING EXPLORATION Business Unit head: Business Unit head: Robbie Robertson David Hathorn The Group spent $120 million on exploration in 2004 $41 million on base metals, $9 million on coal, $14 million on ferrous metals, $43 million at AngloGold Ashanti and $13 million at Anglo Platinum.
Anglo Base Metals concentrated on brownfield exploration near its mines in Chile, Brazil, Ireland, South Africa Contribution to the Groups: Contribution to the Groups: and Namibia.
Drilling identified additional Operating profit before exceptionals Operating profit before exceptionals copper resources at El Soldado and Headline earnings Headline earnings Los Bronces in Chile.
Other copper exploration took place in Mexico, Peru, $ $ 8% 346m 12 % 559m the Philippines and Brazil, while zinc exploration focused on India and Australia.
$ $ 10 % 267m 14 % 381m Nickel exploration continued around the West Raglan sulphide discovery in northern Quebec as well as in Brazil and Finland.
Operating profit before exceptional Operating profit was 15% lower items increased by 6% to $346 at $559 million.
This reflected Anglo Coal's exploration stayed close to million.
Tarmacs operating profit a significantly tougher trading existing operations in Australia, Colombia before exceptional items declined environment, particularly in the and South Africa.
Prospecting for coal-bed by 3% to $280 million due to business paper sector, in spite methane took place in South Africa and challenging market conditions in of increased production and cost Australia, while the Xiwan project in the UK, after the completion of savings.
Dollar-reported results Chinas Shaanxi province completed an various large infrastructure projects are improved by the translation extensive initial drilling programme.
France benefited from a impact of the stronger euro and rand.
strong housing market, while the Anglo Ferrous Metals exploration Polish and Czech businesses Mondi has restructured its operations activities all related to Kumba, with enjoyed better market conditions.
into two global product groups, Mondi most expenditure incurred on greenfield Operating profit in Spain improved Packaging and Mondi Business Paper.
and brownfield iron ore exploration in again, although weak market The balance of the group consists South Africa.
of the South African packaging businesses, European paper merchant AngloGold Ashanti continued to explore The Middle East business enjoyed another Europapier, and the European and around its mines in Argentina, Australia, year of substantial growth and the South African newsprint businesses.
Brazil, Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Namibia, Far East business continued to improve.
South Africa, Tanzania and the US.
Mondi achieved $144 million in cost In Asia, the company has an exploration Copebrs had an excellent year.
Its savings and productivity improvements team on the ground in Mongolia, where operating profit increased by 89% to in 2004, offsetting lower prices to a it is acquiring land positions in several $66 million due to continued strong large extent.
prospective areas, and has set up an Brazilian demand for phosphate based exploration office in China.
It has also fertilisers and higher international prices.
Mondi Packagings operating profit at established joint ventures in the Philippines $284 million was 6% below that of 2003. and Laos.
In addition, its investment in Market conditions in the UK are expected The adverse impact of stagnant markets Trans-Siberian Gold provides opportunities to remain extremely competitive was not fully offset by the positive impact for further growth in Russia.
Tarmacs performance of substantial cost savings and profit AngloGold Ashanti is exploring in will be underpinned by continuing cost improvement initiatives achieved in 2004. prospective areas of Peru, Colombia and reductions and initiatives to improve Alaska and is establishing an exploration customer service.
The short term outlook Mondi Business Papers operating profit base in the north east region of the in Germany remains uncertain, while of $209 million was 29% down on the Democratic Republic of Congo.
elsewhere in continental Europe fair to previous year, despite an increase in total healthy market conditions are expected.
Anglo Platinums efforts focused on The local market for fertilisers in Brazil exploration in South Africa.
Elsewhere, remains buoyant, although there is The outlook for paper and packaging prices its partners carried out programmes in concern about lower international prices remains cautious.
In 2005, Mondi will Canada and Russia, while a joint venture for some agricultural commodities.
The continue to focus on product differentiation, began to explore in the Sichuan province new Gois plant has augmented capitalising on the recent expansion of China.
Copebrs strong position in the market.
projects, innovation programmes and cost-reduction initiatives.
18 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 OUR WIDER RESPONSIBILITIES During 2004 Anglo American pursued an active CORPORATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT programme to align the business more closely RESPONSIBILITY with the objective of sustainable development.
A In 2004, Anglo American and its subsidiaries head of sustainable development was appointed contributed some $47.4 million, 1.1% of pre-tax to bring together safety, health and environment, profit 2003: $38.3 million, 1.5% of pre-tax product stewardship, HIV AIDS and social issues.
profit to charitable causes and social investment, including staff time and gifts In September 2004, Anglo American was designated in kind.
Major causes supported included as mining sector leader in the Dow Jones community development 38% and education Sustainability Index.
In May, the Group received the and youth 26%.
Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS Leadership Award.
Major developments during the year included: In the United Kingdom, key causes supported included higher education, international development charities joining the UN Global Compact and playing active e. g. SightSavers, Care, Leonard Cheshire, roles in the Extractive Industries Review and the Transparency International and Engineers without Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative: Borders and environmental initiatives.
In South Africa, the Anglo American Chairman's Fund launching the Anglo American Socio-Economic continued to be well regarded for the quality of its Assessment Toolbox SEAT : programmes, especially in the fields of education and HIV AIDS.
In particular, Anglo American has piloting a unique Sustainable Development Risks been pursuing a Community HIV AIDS Partnership and Opportunities Assessment methodology: aimed at raising awareness amongst young people and at helping improve public health services in launching a drive for greater energy efficiency: community clinics at selected locations.
improving participation in HIV voluntary counselling At site level, Anglo American operations continued and testing.
Almost 2,200 employees are now on to work closely with local communities on issues anti-retroviral treatment: such as the provision of a new primary health clinic at Rosh Pinah Skorpion mine, Namibia, building continuing our work to support grassroots black capacities amongst local farmers Chagres smelter, economic empowerment, including through Chile, facilitating community access to water procurement from companies run by historically Anglo Platinum, Mokopane, supporting HIV disadvantaged South Africans which rose by prevention programmes Boart Longyear, China over 60% compared with 2003 and small and training programmes for disadvantaged young business development.
people Scaw Metals, South Africa.
711 527 338 1,177 730 224 1,073 266 463 1,539 6,293 5,170 2,803 5,876 14,435 Right: Adding economic value to the societies in which Anglo American Distribution of operates is central to the Groups Employees $m economic benefits $m Suppliers $m approach to sustainable development.
n Australia Asia n Suppliers n Australia Asia This is not only through the process n South America n Employees n South America of extracting or processing natural resources but also through the n North America n Dividends n North America multiplier effects of wages and taxes, n Europe n Interest n Europe payments to governments and n Africa n Company tax n Africa suppliers and returns to investors.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SKILLS, ENTHUSIASM AND COMMITMENT Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 19 Anglo American is also addressing GHG emissions ENERGY ENERGY through the incorporation of cost of carbon estimates into the appraisal of new investment proposals.
CLIMATE CHANGE The procedure aims to ensure that potential future Anglo Americans operations are intensive carbon costs and benefits are assessed so that users of energy and major emitters of investment proposals recognise the likelihood of greenhouse gases GHGs.
The prospect of these costs and benefits and to assess the financial increasing energy prices and of the imposition viability of alternative technologies and processes.
of regulatory costs on greenhouse gas emissions therefore constitute both a major The Group is also seeking to reduce emissions at risk and a significant opportunity.
At Anglo Coal Australia, methane is drained from some mines, obtaining credits from Using energy more efficiently is the first step in both the New South Wales GHG Abatement Scheme.
During 2004, the Other opportunities exist through the Clean Technical Division, with the Rocky Mountain Institute, Development Mechanism CDM, a Kyoto incentive conducted an Energy Technology Pilot Project.
This to invest in emissions-reduction technology in underlined that many site-local cost-effective energy developing countries.
To help identify CDM projects, efficiency options exist, including co-generation, heat Anglo American has introduced a CDM Screening recovery, motor and pump replacement and improving Tool.
Existing CDM projects continue to make or eliminating the use of compressed air.
Business progress, including at Codemin in Brazil and, in units are now working on engineering proposals for South Africa, the Richards Bay paper plant and the most attractive potential projects.
The Toolbox was initially developed through three SOCIO-ECONOMIC SOCIO-ECONOMIC pilot projects at Anglo American operations.
During IMPACTS 2004, almost 100 managers were trained in the IMPACTS IMPROVED implementation of SEAT.
Twelve assessments were completed during 2004 in Chile, Venezuela, South At the end of 2003, the Anglo American SocioAfrica and Zimbabwe.
A further 22 are in train and Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT was are expected to have been completed during this year.
launched as a unique exercise in building At least 12 further assessments are already planned capacity at site level in the more effective for 2005. management of local social and economic impacts.
The SEAT process enables operations The SEAT Assessments are helping to build a greater to better understand their existing 'footprint': understanding of community needs, of potential suggests the most culturally appropriate sources of friction or distrust, how core business means of engaging with relevant communities: activities can be improved to maximise community and then provides guidance on how to development and how our operations can partner implement improvements.
Among the 22 tools with others to underpin sustainable livelihoods.
is guidance on best practice in local business development, assessing human capital, During 2004, a parallel toolbox was developed to establishing partnerships, improving the quality aid our exploration teams to improve their interactions of community investment and in planning with the local communities where they work.
This will for the social dimension of mine closure.
be tested in the field during 2005. leadership'.
The Group is seeking to develop a culture SAFETY SAFETY ZERO TOLERANCE in which all its workforce work safely and also keep an eye on their workmates to check that they too are TARGET ZERO working safely.
The Company intends to increase the Safety has been a clear priority for Anglo focus on safety standards and training, particularly American, especially since the Group adopted its amongst contractors and on leading indicators such as OTTO zero tolerance target zero programme.
'near hits' as a means of pre-empting unsafe conduct.
Significant progress has been made in embedding a safety culture and in reducing the level of The Groups confidence that safety performance injuries at work.
can be significantly improved through consistent management focus and employee involvement is In 2004, tragically, 21 employees and 28 contractors reinforced by the experience of Tarmac.
In 2004, died in accidents at Anglos managed operations a its UK operations received the Quarry Products total of 49.
This was an increase of five over 2003 Association premier safety award.
89% of Tarmac and follows four years of consistent decline.
There operations had no lost time injuries LTIs during the was, however, a significant improvement in the lost year.
Across the Tarmac group there were 114 LTIs time injury frequency rate, which fell by 23% for the for the year compared with 159 in 2003. year and by 71% over the last four years.
Anglo American has an absolute commitment to the Further information on safety and sustainable development elimination of injuries through initiatives like the is available at www.
co. uk and in the Safety Golden Rules, the Chief Executive's Safety 2004 Report to Society Award and emphasis on the importance of 'visible felt 20 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 THE BOARD Executive TONY TRAHAR BARRY DAVISON TONY LEA BComm, CA SA BA BA Hons 55, is chief executive and has 59, is a member of Exboard, 56, is finance director and has been with the Group since the S&SD Committee and been with the Group since 1974.
He is chairman of the chairman of Anglo Platinum.
He became a director of Executive Board Exboard, 1986, he joined the board of Minorco in 1985.
Tony Lea is a and a member of the Safety Anglo American Corporation of member of Exboard and chairs & Sustainable Development South Africa Limited AAC.
Tony He was chief executive of He is also a director of DB Trahars other directorships Anglo Platinum from 1988- Investments and AngloGold include AngloGold Ashanti, 2003.
He is chairman of Ashanti.
He will relinquish his Anglo Platinum and Ferrous Metals and Industries role as finance director with DB Investments.
and a director of Kumba, effect from 31 August 2005 Nedcor and Samancor.
but will remain on the board until 31 December 2005.
Non-executive SIR MARK MOODYROB MARGETTS CBE DAVID CHALLEN CBE DR CHRIS FAY CBE STUART KCMG BA, FREng MA, MBA BSc, PhD, FREng, FRSE, PhD, MA, FGS 58, is the senior independent 62, is chairman of the Audit FICE, FEI 64, was appointed a nonnon-executive director, chairman Committee and a member of 59, is a former chairman of executive director on 17 July of the Remuneration Committee the Remuneration Committee.
Chris Fay chairs the 2002 and non-executive and a member of the Audit and He is currently vice chairman S&SD Committee and is a chairman on 1 December Nomination Committees.
He of Citigroup European member of the Remuneration 2002.
He also sits on the is the non-executive chairman Investment Bank and a and Audit Committees.
He is a S&SD and Nomination of Legal & General Group Plc non-executive director of non-executive director of BAA Committees.
He is a director and The BOC Group plc and Smiths Group plc.
Previously plc and Stena International b. v. of The Shell Transport and was formerly vice chairman of he was chairman of J. Henry and non-executive chairman of Trading Company plc, HSBC ICI PLC.
Rob Margetts is also Schroder & Co. Limited, Expro International Group PLC Holdings plc and Accenture chairman of the UK Natural where he spent most of his and Tuscan Energy Group Ltd. Sir Mark was a member Environment Research Council professional career.
He is a former of the UN Secretary-Generals and a member of the UK Council currently a member of the chairman of the British Advisory Council for the Global for Science and Technology.
governments Advisory Compact from 2001 to 2004.
Committee on Business and the Environment.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 21 BOBBY GODSELL GRAN LINDAHL DR MARIA SILVIA BASTOS NICKY OPPENHEIMER MA MSc, DSc, PhD MARQUES MA 52, is a member of the S&SD 59, is a member of the S&SD BA, PhD 59, is a member of the Committee and has been with Committee.
He is a non- 48, is a member of the S&SD Nomination Committee.
He is executive director of IKEA Committee.
She is currently a He joined the Group in 1968 chief executive of AngloGold and Sony and a co-chairman partner in the corporate finance and subsequently became Ashanti, and chief executive of Nanomix, Inc.
He is a consultancy MS & CR2 Finanas an executive director and of its predecessor company, former chairman of the Alliance Corporativas Ltda.
Maria Silvia a deputy chairman of AAC.
He is for Global Sustainability and a has held non-executive He became deputy chairman the past president of South former special adviser to the directorships in Petroleo of fide Beers Consolidated in Africas Chamber of Mines and UN Secretary-General.
He was Brasileiro SA, Companhia Vale 1985 and has been chairman a former director of Standard president and chief executive do Rio Doce and is currently of fide Beers since 1998.
officer of ABB from 1997 until a non-executive director of the end of 2000.
Gran has Companhia Souza Cruz SA, indicated that he will retire Po fide Acar and Embratel.
from the board at the forthcoming AGM.
FRED PHASWANA SIR DAVID SCHOLEY CBE PROFESSOR KAREL BComm, MA 69, is a member of the S&SD VAN MIERT 60, is chairman of the and Nomination Committees.
Graduate in Diplomatic Nomination Committee and a He is the chairman of Close Sciences member of the Remuneration Brothers Group, a director of 62, is a member of the Audit and and Audit Committees.
He is Vodafone Group and Chubb Nomination Committees.
He is currently chairman of Transnet Corporation and an adviser to currently a member of the and a director of Naspers and UBS.
He was formerly a nonsupervisory boards of German was previously BP regional executive director of the Bank utility RWE, Philips NV, Munich Re president: Africa, a director of of England and a governor of and Wolters-Kluwer.
He is also a BP Oil Benelux, an associate the British Broadcasting member of the advisory boards of president of BP Netherlands Corporation.
Sir David has Goldman Sachs, Eli Lilly and and chairman and chief indicated that he will retire Rabobank.
He was previously executive of BP Southern from the board at the President of Nyrenode University, Africa.
His other appointments forthcoming AGM.
Netherlands Business School, a include the South African member of the European Institute of International Affairs Parliament from 1979 to 1985 and the South African National and a member of the European Energy Association.
22 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 INTRODUCTION The directors, their responsibilities and the current membership The directors present to shareholders their summary financial of the principal committees of the board are set out on pages statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Following the retirement of W A Nairn as a director financial statements do not constitute the statutory financial on 31 December 2004, the board currently comprises three statements as they do not contain sufficient information to allow executive directors and eleven non-executive directors, eight as full an understanding of the results of the Group and the state of whom are independent according to the definition contained of affairs of the Company or of the Group, and of its policies and in the Combined Code.
The independent directors are arrangements concerning directors remuneration, as is provided Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, D J Challen, F T M Phaswana, by the full Annual Report.
Professor K A L M Van Miert, Dr C E Fay, G Lindahl, R J Margetts and Dr M S B Marques.
R J Margetts is the senior independent The full financial statements, directors report and report non-executive director.
The other non-executive directors of the auditors which is unqualified are included in a separate are Sir David Scholey, R M Godsell and N F Oppenheimer.
document entitled Annual Report 2004, which is available to Sir David Scholey and G Lindahl have indicated that they shareholders free of charge.
Shareholders who wish to obtain will retire from the board at the AGM in April.
a copy for this and future years should contact the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars or the South African Transfer The board has concluded that Dr Fay and Messrs Godsell, Secretaries, Ultra Registrars, as appropriate.
The full Annual Margetts and Oppenheimer should continue as non-executive Report of Anglo American plc comprises the aforementioned directors, notwithstanding that they have served for six years, Annual Report 2004, this Annual Review and the booklet for the reasons explained in the full Corporate Governance Report containing the Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM set out in the Annual Report.
During the year the Nomination Committee managed the process BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND DEVELOPMENT of the selection and appointment of R Mdori, with effect from Reports by the chairman and the chief executive on the 1 June 2005, who will succeed A W Lea as Finance Director performance for the year and the future development of the on 1 September 2005, and the proposed elections at the AGM Groups businesses are included at the beginning of this of D A Hathorn and S R Thompson as executive directors and document.
Events announced after the year end are referred R C Alexander as a non-executive director.
With effect from 24 February 2004, Dr M S B Marques became DIVIDENDS a member of the Safety & Sustainable Development Committee Anglo American paid an interim dividend of 19 US cents per share formerly the Safety, Health and Environment Committee.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 51 US cents per share.
Subject to approval by members at During the year the Audit Committee, in addition to its review the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 29 April 2005 of, inter alia, financial statements and related documents, to shareholders on the register on 11 March 2005. reviewed the Groups progress towards the implementation of the new International Financial Reporting Standards and also ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING reviewed the verification methods for calculating ore reserves The AGM will be held at The Conference Centre, Church House, and mineral resources at the Groups various operations.
Deans Yard, London SW1P 3NZ at 11:00 am on Wednesday, 20 April 2005.
The full notice of AGM is contained in the Details of the remuneration policy and of the remuneration of enclosed booklet.
the directors are given in the remuneration report in the Annual Report and a summary of this report is set out on pages 25 to 28.
As part of the routine AGM business, shareholders will be asked The Company values its dialogue with both institutional and to approve the directors remuneration report and, as special private investors.
For the benefit of private investors in particular, business, to renew the directors existing authorities to allot Anglo American has produced this short-form Annual Review ordinary shares and to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
which contains the information believed to be of most interest In addition to the re-election of those directors retiring by rotation, to them.
and upon the recommendation of the board, shareholders will also be asked to elect Messrs Hathorn, Mdori, Thompson and The Company has commenced implementation of a whistleblowing Alexander as directors as explained in further detail in the programme throughout its managed operations.
The programme Chairmans questions and answers on page 3. is in line with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 to enable employees, customers, suppliers, managers or other stakeholders SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT on a confidential basis, to raise concerns in cases where they Throughout the year ended 31 December 2004 the Company believe they have discovered malpractice or impropriety.
has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the The board performance evaluation process resulted in a number Financial Reporting Council.
The directors are satisfied that of changes being made to board agenda items and informal there is an ongoing process of internal control for identifying, meetings of directors being held.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
22 February 2005 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 23 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items items items US$ million 2004 2004 2004 2003 2003 2003 Group turnover including share of joint ventures and associates 31,795 31,795 24,909 24,909 Less: Share of joint ventures turnover 1,195 1,195 1,060 1,060 Share of associates turnover 5,670 5,670 5,212 5,212 Group turnover subsidiaries 24,930 24,930 18,637 18,637 Operating costs 21,869 25 21,844 16,740 286 17,026 Group operating profit subsidiaries 3,061 25 3,086 1,897 286 1,611 Share of operating profit of joint ventures 446 446 247 247 Share of operating profit of associates 1,065 117 948 748 748 Total operating profit 4,572 92 4,480 2,892 286 2,606 Profit on disposal of fixed assets 520 520 386 386 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 4,572 428 5,000 2,892 100 2,992 Investment income 345 345 308 308 Interest payable 704 704 614 13 627 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 4,213 428 4,641 2,586 87 2,673 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 1,280 1 1,279 749 13 736 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 2,933 429 3,362 1,837 100 1,937 Equity minority interests 449 449 339 6 345 Profit for the financial year 2,484 429 2,913 1,498 94 1,592 Equity dividends to shareholders 1,007 1,007 766 766 Retained profit for the financial year 1,477 429 1,906 732 94 826 1 Headline earnings for the financial year 2,689 1,694 Basic earnings per share US$ : Profit for the financial year 2.03 1.13 Headline earnings for the financial year 1.88 1.20 Diluted earnings per share US$ : Profit for the financial year 1.96 1.10 Headline earnings for the financial year 1.81 1.17 Dividend per share US cents 70.0 54.0 2 Basic number of shares outstanding million 1,434 1,415 2 Diluted number of shares outstanding million 1,500 1,478 1 Headline earnings are $2,689 million.
Headline earnings are calculated as follows: profit for the financial year of $2,913 million, adding back operating exceptional charges of $92 million, goodwill amortisation of $221 million less non-operating exceptional gains of $520 million and related tax and minority interests of $17 million.
2 Basic and diluted number of shares outstanding represent the weighted average for the year.
The impact of acquired and discontinued operations on the results for the year is not material.
24 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2004 2004 2003 1 US$ million as restated Fixed assets Intangible assets 2,590 2,267 Tangible assets 31,155 24,379 Investments in joint ventures and associates 5,842 6,434 Other investments 889 772 40,476 33,852 Current assets Stocks 3,401 2,744 Debtors 5,668 4,383 Current asset investments and cash at bank and in hand 2,661 2,126 11,730 9,253 Creditors due within one year Short term borrowings 3,333 4,094 Other current liabilities 6,820 5,224 Net current assets liabilities 1,577 65 Total assets less current liabilities 42,053 33,787 Creditors due after one year Long term borrowings 7,449 6,665 Provisions for liabilities and charges 4,986 3,954 Equity minority interests 4,445 3,396 Non-equity minority interests 175 Total shareholders funds equity 24,998 19,772 1 The Group has adopted Urgent Issues Task Force UITF abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts.
As required by this abstract, own shares held by employee trusts have been reclassified from other investments and are now recorded as a reduction in shareholders funds.
This change has been accounted for as a prior year adjustment and previously reported figures have been restated accordingly.
The impact of adopting this abstract is to reduce net assets and shareholders funds by $622 million at 1 January 2004 1 January 2003: $630 million.
The financial statements, including the summary financial statements, were approved by the board of directors on 22 February 2005 and signed on its behalf by A J Trahar, chief executive, and A W Lea, finance director.
SUMMARY CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 US$ million 2004 2003 Net cash inflow from operating activities 4,773 3,184 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 408 426 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 512 558 Taxation 478 707 Capital expenditure and financial investment 2,857 2,337 Acquisitions and disposals 1,099 1,285 Equity dividends paid to Anglo American shareholders 818 741 Cash inflow outflow before management of liquid resources and financing 1,615 2,018 Management of liquid resources 456 182 Financing 1,169 1,785 Increase decrease in cash in the year 902 51 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 25 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2004 This is a summary of the full remuneration report contained in the In the case of executive directors and top-tier management, Annual Report, copies of which may be obtained free of charge half of the bonus will be paid in cash.
The cash element would from the Companys Registrars or South African Transfer Secretaries, not normally exceed 75% of salary for the CEO and 60% of or may be viewed on, or downloaded from, Anglo Americans salary for other executive directors.
co. uk The other half of the bonus is in the form of a conditional award REMUNERATION COMMITTEE of Bonus Shares equal in value to the cash element.
To encourage Anglo American has a Remuneration Committee the Committee retention, these Bonus Shares will only vest if the participant consisting of non-executive directors, chaired by R J Margetts, remains in employment with the Group until the end of a which is responsible for considering and making recommendations three year holding period, or is, in the view of Remuneration to the board on executive and senior management remuneration Committee, deemed to be a good leaver.
policy, specific remuneration packages for executive directors and the design and operation of the Companys share In order to provide continuing medium term performance focus, incentive schemes.
executive directors will also receive an award of conditional Enhancement Shares at the same time as the award of Bonus REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Shares.
The maximum potential value of these Enhancement Each executive directors total remuneration consists of salary, Shares is 75% of the face value of the Bonus Shares i. e. in annual bonus, long term incentives and benefits.
The basic salary the case of the CEO, a maximum of 56.25% of base salary.
of the executive directors is reviewed annually and is targeted These awards will vest after three years only to the extent that at the median of companies of comparable size, market sector, a challenging performance condition based on EPS growth has business complexity and international scope.
performance, individual performance and changes in responsibilities are also taken into consideration in setting salary levels at the On a change of control of the Company, Bonus Shares will be end of each year.
An appropriate balance is maintained between released and Enhancement Shares will vest, but only to the extent fixed and performance-related remuneration, and between elements that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.
linked to short term financial performance and those linked to longer term shareholder value creation.
Assuming on-target The BSP is not pensionable.
performance, the Committees policy is that around 50% around 60% for the CEO or more of total executive director remuneration OTHER LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLANS is performance-related.
In 2004, on average, 64% of executive No awards were made to executive directors under the old deferred directors actual remuneration was performance-related.
BONUS SHARE PLAN No share options were granted to executive directors under Shareholders approved the introduction of the new Bonus Share the Employee Share Option Scheme ESOS in 2004.
In 2005, Plan BSP at the AGM in 2004 and all executive directors are participation in the BSP will be extended to other tiers of eligible to participate in the BSP.
The BSP was operated for the management globally circa 1,300 individuals, who will first time during 2004.
The BSP requires executives to invest thereafter cease to receive share option grants under the ESOS.
a significant proportion of their remuneration in shares, thereby more closely aligning their interests with those of shareholders, Conditional Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards continue and encourages management at all levels to build up a meaningful to be made annually to executive directors.
These awards are personal stake in the Company.
discretionary and are considered on a case-by-case basis.
Awards under the LTIP in 2004 were increased from 120% to 160% of Awards under the BSP are made annually and consist of three basic salary for the CEO and from 100% to 130% of basic salary elements: a performance-related cash element, an equal amount for the other executive directors in order to maintain market as a conditional award of Bonus Shares and an additional competitiveness and to reflect the rebalanced incentive structure.
performance-related element in the form of Enhancement Shares.
Vesting of LTIP awards made during 2004 is subject to the The value of the bonus is calculated by reference to achievement achievement of two stretching performance measures relating against annual performance targets including measures of to Total Shareholder Return TSR and to an operating measure, corporate and, where applicable, business unit performance, Return on Capital Employed ROCE, over a fixed three year as well as the achievement of specific individual objectives.
For awards made in 2004 and thereafter, half of each For executive directors, the corporate element is based on award made to an executive director is subject to a Group TSR stretching Earnings per Share EPS targets.
In 2004, the EPS measure and half is subject to a Group ROCE measure.
There targets were met in full.
It is the Committees usual policy will be no retesting of performance.
These performance measures to base 70% of each annual bonus award on the corporate or were chosen on the basis that they clearly foster the creation of business unit measure, and the remaining 30% on key individual shareholder value.
The level of bonuses is reduced if certain safety improvement targets are not met.
The vesting of that part of the LTIP award contingent upon TSR performance varies according to the Companys TSR over the The Committee will review measures annually to ensure they performance period, relative to a weighted basket of international remain appropriate and sufficiently stretching in the context of natural resource companies the Index.
For awards made in 2004, the economic and performance expectations for the Company the companies constituting the Index were as follows: and its operating businesses.
26 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Mining Paper and Packaging Industrial Minerals Category weighting 71% 17% 12% Comparator companies BHP Billiton plc M-real Corporation Aggregate Industries plc Companhia Vale do Rio Doce Sappi Limited CRH plc Freeport McMoRan SCA Hanson plc Copper & Gold Inc David S. Smith Holdings plc RMC Group plc Kumba Resources Limited Stora Enso Oyj Noranda Inc UPM-Kymmene Group Rio Tinto plc Teck Cominco Limited WMC Resources Limited Xstrata plc The LTIP closely aligns the interests of shareholders and PENSIONS executive directors by rewarding superior shareholder and The amounts paid into defined contribution pension schemes financial performance and by encouraging executives to build by Anglo American plc in respect of the directors who served up a shareholding in Anglo American plc.
during 2004 totalled 521,000 2003: 479,000, excluding supplementary voluntary pension contributions.
Two of the In the event of a change of control of the Company, the number executive directors are members of defined benefit pension of shares that vest under the LTIP will be calculated by reference schemes.
The Remuneration Committee is considering UK to the extent to which the applicable performance conditions pension arrangements in light of the new UK pensions regime have been met at the time of the change of control.
which will apply from April 2006.
Further details will be disclosed in the 2005 remuneration report.
Within five years of their appointment, executive directors are expected to acquire a holding of shares with a value of two EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS times basic salary in the case of the chief executive and one In order properly to reflect their spread of responsibilities, times basic salary in the case of other executive directors.
all the executive directors, with the exception of A W Lea, who is employed by Anglo American International BVI Limited, PERFORMANCE GRAPH have contracts with Anglo American International IOM Limited The graph shows the Companys TSR performance from and with Anglo Operations Limited.
The salaries under these 1 January 2000, against the TSR performance of the contracts are payable in sterling and or South African rand as FTSE 100 Index, chosen as being a broad equity market index appropriate.
The employment contracts of all executive directors consisting of companies of comparable size and complexity are terminable at 12 months notice by either party and each to Anglo American plc.
In drawing this graph, it has been assumed contains a provision that sets out the compensation payable that all dividends paid have been re-invested.
This graph has been in lieu of notice if the Company terminates the contract other produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to than for cause or the director resigns in circumstances where the Companies Act 1985. there has been a material adverse change in role, responsibilities or remuneration.
Compensation is based on the value of 150 12 months basic salary, target annual bonus for 12 months and the annual value of benefits.
In light of current best practice 125 guidelines, the Committee has determined that liquidated damages 100 clauses will not be included in service contracts for new appointments to the board.
The service contracts of executive 75 directors do not provide for any enhanced payments in the 50 event of a change of control of the Company.
25 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND 0 SERVICE CONTRACTS 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Non-executive director remuneration is set at a level which is sufficient to attract and retain world-class non-executive talent n FTSE 100 Index n Anglo American plc and which is consistent with recognised best practice.
Nonexecutive directors may not participate in the Companys Bonus Share Plan, share option schemes, LTIP or pension arrangements.
The board reviews non-executive directors fees periodically to ensure they remain market-competitive.
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with Anglo American plc for an initial period of three years from their date of appointment, subject to re-election at the AGM.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 27 REMUNERATION OUTCOMES DURING 2004 DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS The fees and other emoluments paid to non-executive directors during the year ended 31 December 2004 amounted to 1,602,000 2003: 1,355,000.
Emoluments paid to executive directors, and their share interests, were as follows: Year ended 31 December 2004 2003 Basic salary sacrificed into International Annual Payments Basic Approved Benefits performance on 2 2 3 4 5 6 salary Pension Scheme in kind bonus retirement Total Total 1 Executive directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 A J Trahar chief executive 801 89 53 601 1,544 1,424 B E Davison 423 47 27 195 692 603 A W Lea 510 23 214 747 689 W A Nairn 378 42 35 181 21 657 567 Year ended 31 December 2004 Interest at 31 December 2004 Gains on share Beneficial BSP options incentives share Anglo American LTIP BSP Bonus Enhancement Deferred 7 8 9 10 11 11 12 Executive directors 000 interests Share Options Awards Shares Shares bonus plan A J Trahar chief executive 90,985 603,512 295,286 49,570 37,178 56,984 B E Davison 32,299 239,000 129,820 12,705 9,529 8,279 A W Lea 546 71,785 210,780 142,164 16,914 12,686 22,393 W A Nairn 40,641 196,029 72,122 13,911 1 Subsequent to their retirement from the board, L Boyd and M W King continue to hold non-executive directorships with certain listed subsidiaries of the Group.
They received fees of 29,000 and 21,000 respectively for the provision of these services during the year.
2 Since A J Trahar, B E Davison and W A Nairn had no provision for past service in respect of their sterling-denominated pension fund, their employing company has contractually agreed that supplementary pension contributions should be made to the Anglo American plc International Approved Pension Scheme in return for these executives giving up their right to part of their future basic salary.
The table above shows these amounts, which are 89,000, 47,000 and 42,000 respectively.
3 Each director received a car allowance or a fully expensed car and a limited amount of personal taxation financial advice.
All directors, with the exception of W A Nairn, also received medical insurance and death and disability insurance.
A J Trahar, A W Lea and W A Nairn received club membership: in addition, A J Trahar received a housing loan subsidy.
4 The 2004 bonus represents the cash element of the Bonus Share Plan payable in 2005.
The share elements under this scheme for 2004 will be awarded during 2005.
5 The value of the bonus under the Bonus Share Plan is calculated by reference to measures of both corporate performance based on stretching EPS targets as well as the achievement of specific individual objectives.
In 2004, the EPS targets were met in full.
Half of the bonus is paid in cash and the other half takes the form of a conditional award of Bonus Shares equal in value to the cash element see footnote 11 below.
6 On retirement at 31 December 2004, W A Nairn received payment for accumulated untaken leave of 19,000 and an award to mark completion of 40 years of service of 2,000.
7 No share options were granted to executive directors during the year, although 100,828 options were exercised by executive directors in 2004.
B E Davison exercised his remaining 38,325 Anglo Platinum share options during the year.
R M Godsell also has 224,300 share options in AngloGold Ashanti.
8 The exercise of options under the ESOS is subject to Anglo Americans EPS based on the Companys headline earnings measure increasing by at least 6% above the UK Retail Price Index over a three-year period.
The EPS growth requirement takes account of the cyclical nature of the natural resources business.
9 In addition, at 31 December 2004, A J Trahar and W A Nairn held 5,000 and 82,000 roll-over options respectively.
10 211,254 conditional awards of shares were made to executive directors under the LTIP during the year.
The vesting of those LTIP awards is subject to the achievement of stretching performance measures relating to TSR and ROCE.
In 2004, 99,773 awards vested to executive directors under the first LTIP scheme.
The outcome on the Group ROCE element of the 2001 LTIP was 61.7% and on the TSR element 54%.
Thus the average vesting level for those directors with a 50% Group ROCE, 50% TSR split was 57.9%.
11 79,189 Bonus Shares and 59,393 Enhancement Shares were conditionally awarded to executive directors under the Bonus Share Plan during 2004 in respect of 2003 performance.
Bonus Shares vest if the executive director remains in employment with the Group until the end of the three-year holding period.
The Enhancement Shares will vest to the extent that challenging EPS performance conditions are met.
12 No further awards were made to executive directors under the Deferred Bonus Plan during the year.
29,284 awards vested to the executive directors during the year.
28 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED INDEPENDENT REMUNERATION REPORT REVIEW Committee takes a suitably robust approach to its work.
We would This letter reports on the results of the review carried out by note in particular the changes to long term incentive arrangements Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited of the processes which have been proposed in response to dialogue held with followed by the Anglo American Remuneration Committee the institutional investors.
Committee that support the Remuneration Report for the financial year 2004.
Mercer undertook the review at the request of the We note that the Committee has refined its modus operandi Chairman of the Committee in order to provide shareholders with each year, taking into account any comments we have made assurance that the remuneration processes followed are appropriate in our reviews.
As a result, we believe that the Committee and that the Committee has complied with the policies set out in is exemplary in its conduct, decision-making and reporting.
The members of the Committee are regularly updated on executive In order to reach our opinion, we reviewed the Committees Terms compensation and corporate governance matters.
of Reference and the minutes of its meetings held during the year as well as material presented to the Committee for its review.
Further detail regarding the Mercer review is included in a letter We also interviewed the Chairman and Secretary of the Committee.
of this date addressed to the Committees chairman, which we Our review was not intended to audit the compensation data set understand will be made available on the Companys website.
forth in the Remuneration Report or to evaluate the merits of Anglo Americans remuneration programme.
Mark Hoble Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited Based on our review, Mercer is of the opinion that the process Dexter House followed by the Committee during 2004 was fully consistent 2 Royal Mint Court with its Terms of Reference and that the decisions taken by London EC3N 4NA the Committee were in line with the principles set out in the 25 January 2005 Remuneration Report.
It continues to be our view that the INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN plc We have examined the summary financial statements which BASIS OF OPINION comprise the summary directors report, summary corporate We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 governance report, consolidated profit and loss account, summary The Auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement consolidated balance sheet, summary consolidated cash flow issued by the United Kingdom Auditing Practices Board.
statement and summary remuneration report.
OPINION This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, In our opinion, the summary financial statements are consistent in accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985. with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the directors remuneration report of Anglo American plc for the Companys members those matters we are required to state to year ended 31 December 2004 and comply with the applicable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985, extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility and the regulations made thereunder.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for our audit report Deloitte & Touche LLP or for the opinions we have formed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS 22 February 2005 The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statements with the full annual accounts, the directors report and the directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review as described in the contents section, and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statements.
2 1999, 2000 and 2001 have been restated for the adoption of FRS 19.
3 As first noted in 2002, operating profit for 2000 has been restated for the reclassification of the loss of $167 million arising on the anticipated disposal of Terra Industries Inc.
The disposal did not proceed and the loss has therefore been reclassified into operating exceptional items as an impairment.
4 2000 and 1999 have been restated to reflect the three-for-one bonus issue in May 2001.
5 EBITDA is operating profit before exceptional items plus depreciation and amortisation in subsidiaries and share of EBITDA of joint ventures and associates.
6 EBITDA interest cover is EBITDA divided by net interest expense, excluding other net financial income 2004: $119 million and exceptional financing charges 2004: nil.
EBITDA interest cover for 2002 is annualised to account for acquisitions during the year.
The actual EBITDA interest cover for 2002 was 25.5 times.
For 2000 and 1999 EBITDA interest cover is not applicable as the Group was a net interest recipient after adjusting for other net financial income.
7 Total capital is the sum of shareholders funds, net debt and minority interests.
8 Return on capital employed is calculated as total operating profit before impairments for the year divided by the average total capital less other investments and adjusted for impairments.
30 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 THE BUSINESS: AN OVERVIEW EFFECTIVE 14 FEBRUARY 2005 METALS AND PRECIOUS MINERALS PLATINUM GOLD DIAMONDS BASE METALS 3 ANGLO PLATINUM ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI fide BEERS ANGLO BASE METALS 74.8% 51% 45% 100% South Africa South Africa South Africa Copper 100% owned 100% owned 100% owned Collahuasi Chile 44% Rustenburg Section Ergo Cullinan Chagres Chile 100% including UG2 Project Great Noligwa fide Beers Marine El Soldado Chile 100% Union Section Exploration & Services Kopanang Los Bronces Chile 100% Amandelbult Section Finsch Moab Khotsong Mantos Blancos Chile 100% Potgietersrust Platinums Kimberley Mines Mponeng Mantoverde Chile 100% Lebowa Platinum Mines Koffiefontein Savuka Palabora South Africa 29% Western Limb Tailings Namaqualand Mines Tau Lekoa Quellaveco Peru 80% Retreatment The Oaks TauTona Waterval Smelter including Nickel Venetia converting process project Rest of Africa Codemin Brazil 100% Polokwane Smelter Botswana Bibiani Ghana 100% Loma fide Nquel Rustenburg Base Metals Debswana 50% Venezuela 91% Geita Tanzania 100% Refinery Damtshaa, Jwaneng, Barro Alto Brazil 100% Iduapriem Ghana 85% Precious Metals Refinery Orapa and Letlhakane mines Morila Mali 40% Twickenham Mine Project Zinc Lead Navachab Namibia 100% Namibia Black Mountain Obuasi Ghana 100% Joint ventures or Namdeb 50% South Africa 100% sharing agreements Sadiola Mali 38% Mining Area No.
1 Orange Lisheen Ireland 100% River Mines, Elizabeth Bay Modikwa Platinum Joint Siguiri Guinea 85% Gamsberg and Marine concessions Venture 50% Yatela Mali 40% South Africa 100% fide Beers Marine Kroondal Pooling and Sharing Skorpion Namibia 100% Namibia 85% Agreement 50% North America Bafokeng-Rasimone Joint Cripple Creek & Victor Mineral Sands Tanzania 1 2 Venture 50% USA 67% Namakwa Sands Williamson Diamonds 75% Pandora Joint Venture South Africa 100% Project 42.5% South America Canada 1 AngloGold Ashanti Brazil 100% Niobium Became fully operational Snap Lake 100% 1 March 2004.
Serra Grande Brazil 50% Catalo Brazil 100% Cerro Vanguardia Trading and Marketing Argentina 92.5% Various companies involved in purchasing, selling and Australia marketing of rough diamonds, Sunrise Dam 100% including The Diamond Trading Company 100% Industrial Diamonds Companies manufacturing synthetic diamonds and abrasive products 50% 2 AngloGold Ashanti is entitled to receive 100% of the cash flow from the operation until a loan, extended to 3 the joint venture by AngloGold The Companys independently Ashanti, is repaid.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 31 PAPER AND PACKAGING FERROUS METALS COAL INDUSTRIAL PAPER AND AND INDUSTRIES MINERALS PACKAGING ANGLO FERROUS METALS ANGLO COAL ANGLO INDUSTRIAL ANGLO PAPER AND INDUSTRIES 100% MINERALS AND PACKAGING 100% 100% 100% Ferrous Metals South Africa Aggregates and Packaging building materials Kumba southern Africa, China 100% owned Mondi Packaging and Australia 67% Tarmac Group UK 100% worldwide 100% Bank Highveld Steel Tarmac France France Mondi Packaging South Africa Goedehoop 4 South Africa 79% and Belgium 100% 55% Greenside Scaw Metals Tarmac Central Europe Isibonelo Business paper worldwide 100% Germany, Poland and Kleinkopje Czech Republic 100% Samancor South Africa 40% Mondi Business Paper Austria, Kriel Tarmac Iberia Spain 100% Hungary, Slovakia, South Australian Manganese 40% Landau Africa, Russia, Israel 100% Tarmac International Zimbabwe Alloys 100% New Denmark Holdings Far East and Columbus Stainless Newsprint Merchanting Middle East 100% New Vaal South Africa 14% Mondi Shanduka Newsprint Acerinox Spain 2% Phosphate products 4 South Africa other South Africa 50% Copebrs Brazil 73% Aylesford Newsprint Industries Eyesizwe Coal 11% UK 50% Mafube 50% Boart Longyear Europapier Europe 100% worldwide 100% Richards Bay Coal Terminal 27% Tongaat-Hulett South Africa 52% Australia Hippo Valley Estates Zimbabwe 50% Callide 100% Amfarms Dartbrook 78% South Africa 100% Dawson Complex 51% Drayton 88% German Creek 70% Jellinbah East 23% Moranbah North 88% Australia Other Australian Power & Energy Limited APEL 100% Dalrymple Bay Coal Terminal Pty Ltd 33% Newcastle Coal Shippers Pty Ltd 20% Colombia Cerrejn 33% Venezuela Carbones del Guasare 25% 4 Shareholdings are shown on the basis that the contemplated commitments for employee and community share ownerships are finalised.
32 Anglo American plc Annual Review 2004 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OTHER ANGLO AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS 11:00 am on Wednesday, 20 April 2005, at: The Conference Centre 2004 Annual Report Church House 2004 Interim Report Deans Yard 2004 5 Fact Book Westminster 2004 Report to Society London SW1P 3NZ Notice of AGM and Shareholder Information Booklet Investing in the future Black Economic Empowerment SHAREHOLDERS DIARY 2005 6 Good Neighbours: Our Work With Communities Interim results August 2005 Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles Interim dividend payable September 2005 Optima Anglo Americans current affairs journal Financial year end 31 December 2005 Annual results announcement February 2006 If you would like to receive copies of Anglo Americans publications, Annual Report March 2006 please write to: Annual General Meeting April 2006 Final dividend payable April 2006 Investor and Corporate Affairs Department Anglo American plc ENQUIRIES 20 Carlton House Terrace Queries relating to Anglo American plc should be addressed to the London SW1Y 5AN, England Company Secretary or the Investor and Corporate Affairs Department at the following address: Alternatively, publications can be ordered online at: http: www.
asp Registered and Head Office Anglo American plc The full 2004 Annual Report, which includes the financial statements, 20 Carlton House Terrace directors report, corporate governance report, remuneration report and London SW1Y 5AN, England report of the auditors which is unqualified, and the booklet containing Telephone 44 0 20 7968 8888 the Notice of AGM and other shareholder information are available Fax 44 0 20 7968 8500 free of charge from the Company, its UK Registrars and South African Registered number 3564138 Transfer Secretaries.
co. uk If you have any questions about your shareholding or dividend, CHARITABLE PARTNERS please contact the Registrar at the relevant address below: This is just a selection of the charities which we have worked with in 2004.
UK Registrar Lloyds TSB Registrars The Causeway Worthing West Sussex BN99 6DA England Telephone, from the UK 0870 609 2286 Telephone, from overseas 44 121 415 7558 Transfer Secretaries in South Africa Ultra Registrars Pty Limited 11 Diagonal Street Johannesburg 2001 South Africa PO Box 4844 Johannesburg 2000 Telephone 27 0 11 834 2266 Design and production: Addison Corporate Marketing Ltd Print: St Ives Westerham Press Printed on Go Silk, made with virgin wood fibre from sawmill residues, forest thinnings and sustainable forests in Europe, South America and Canada.
ANGLO AMERICAN plc 20 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AN England Telephone 44 0 20 7968 8888 Fax 44 0 20 7968 8500 Registered number 3564138 www.
