com Index A Page F Page P Page Accounting policies 31 Financial assets 45 Pensions 10, 39 Assets in the course of construction 41 Financial instruments 48 Profit and loss account 28 Audit committee 13 Financial liabilities 46, 47 Profit and loss reserve 50 Auditors remuneration 34 Financial record 54 Profit share 37 Auditors report 27 Financial review 3 Profitability 56 Authorised share capital 49 Financial Services 6 Property valuation 42 Fixed assets 41 Provisions 48 Fixed charge cover 56 Prior year B Foreign exchange 53 restatements 10, 28, 31, 33, 50, 51 B shares 49 Free cash flow 8 Bad debt 6 Q Balance sheets 29 G Bonus management 5 Quasi-subsidiary 43 Borrowing facilities 9, 47 Gearing retail 8, 56 Geographical analysis 33 R Going concern 11 C Related party transactions 53 Goodwill 50 Capital commitments 53 Remuneration report 16 Gross profit 34 Capital expenditure 41, 56 Reserves 50 Cash flow statement 30 Retained profit 28 I Chairmans message 1 Return on equity 56 Charitable donations 26 Interest 35 Risk management 14 Chief Executives review 2 International Retail 5 Contingent liabilities 53 Investment properties 42 S Corporate governance 12 Investments 42, 44 Segmental information 33 Cost of sales 34 Issued share capital 49, 50 Share buyback 25, 49 Creditors 46 International Financial Reporting Share capital 49 Currency risk 9, 49 Standards 11 Share Incentive Plan 37 Customer advances 6, 44 57 Share issues 25, 49 J Share options 20, 21, 22, 37, 38 D Joint venture 42, 46 Shareholders funds 29, 50 Debtors 44 Shareholdings 25 Deferred taxation 32, 44, 48 Social security 37 L Depreciation 34, 41 Stock 29 Liquid resources 52 Diluted earnings per share 28, 36 Subsidiary undertakings 43 Directors emoluments 20 Swaps 9, 46, 48 Directors interests 24 M Directors report 25 Margin gross and net 34, 56 T Directors responsibilities 24 Minority interest 28 Taxation 35 Dividend cover 56 Treasury Management 9 Dividend per share 28, 36, 56 Turnover 33, 34 N Net debt 30, 52 E Non-equity shareholders funds 29 U Earnings per share 28, 36, 56 Notes to the financial statements 31 UK Retail 4 Employee emoluments 37 Employee numbers 37 ESOP trusts 10, 42 O Equity shareholders funds 29 Operating assets 33 Operating costs 5, 34 Operating leases 34, 53 Operating profit 28, 33, 34 Ordinary shares 49, 50 Occupancy costs 34 Print: Butler & Tanner Printed using vegetable-based inks on Revive uncoated which is made from a minimum of 80% fide-inked post-consumer waste Corporate social Annual review and responsibility summary financial report 2004 statement 2004 only available on-line at www.
com thecompany Additional copies of this document and the Annual review and summary financial statement 2004 or an audio tape or CD, giving highlights can be obtained by calling 0800 591 697.
Further information for shareholders can be found in the Annual review and summary THE QUEENS AWARD FOR THE QUEENS AWARD FOR ENTERPRISE INNOVATION ENTERPRISE INNOVATION 2000 2003 financial statement 2004 on pages 28 and 29.
CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 2 6 04 18:40 Page fc1 Annual review and summary financial statement 2004 CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 3 6 04 17:00 Page ifc2 About Marks & Spencer We are one of the UKs leading retailers of clothes, food, home products and financial services with turnover of 7.3 billion.
Some 10 million people shop with us each week in our 375 stores.
We employ just under 66,000 people at our UK stores and in our network of head ofces.
In addition we have 155 stores managed under franchise in 28 territories mostly in Europe, the Middle East, Asia and the Far East, stores in the Republic of Ireland, nine wholly owned stores in Hong Kong and we own the US supermarket group, Kings Super Markets.
CLOTHING FOOD HOME MONEY INTERNATIONAL Clothing is our biggest Food accounts for some Home currently Money is an important International comprises business accounting for 43.4% of our UK Retail accounts for a relatively part of our total business nine wholly-owned 50.1% of our UK Retail sales inc VAT.
We are a small 6.5% of our UK and is an important part stores in Hong Kong, sales inc VAT.
We leading provider of high Retail sales inc VAT of our offer to customers.
155 franchised stores in provide a wide range quality food with a 3.2% and we have a 2% share The launch last year of 28 territories mostly of clothing for women, share of the UK market.
We the &more credit and Europe, the Middle East, men, children and We sell food both in our are repositioning this loyalty card has attracted Asia and the Far East, babies and have an 11% main stores and through business for greater 2.1 million accounts and our stores in the share of the UK market.
97 Simply Food or food growth, introducing a we issued 10 million Republic of Ireland and We will make our only outlets.
Caf Revive much larger and more of reward vouchers to Kings Super Markets in Womenswear shopoors our instore coffee stylish range of products 1.5 million customers.
Sales from these easier to shop with the shop format is now and will be making This makes us a top-ten operations grew by 2.3% launch of per una du the third largest more of this available in credit card operator last year, at constant and Limited Collection branded coffee bar our own main stores.
in the next financial year.
We have opened the We see this as the base We are testing new We are aiming to relaunch first Marks & Spencer for launching a range of store concepts in our 30% of our food range in Lifestore in Gateshead other financial services city centre and high the next year.
and will open a further products and a stronger street stores.
two pilot stores within in-store offer for our the next 18 months.
Turnover 52 WEEK Turnover 52 WEEK Turnover 52 WEEK Turnover 52 WEEK Turnover 52 WEEK 3,958.1m 3,425.7m 517.9m 330.0m 665.0m PERCENTAGE PERCENTAGE PERCENTAGE PERCENTAGE PERCENTAGE INCREASE DECREASE INCREASE DECREASE INCREASE DECREASE INCREASE DECREASE INCREASE DECREASE % % % % -0.5 5.7 -4.6 Level 0.4 2 Chairmans message 3 Chief Executives review 6 The year in review 18 Board of directors 19 Summary reports 20 Summary profit and loss accounts 22 Summary balance sheet 23 Summary cash ow statement 24 Five year group financial summary 25 Summary remuneration report 28 Shareholder information CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 3 6 04 14:04 Page 1 Financial highlights BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS AFTER EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 53 WEEKS 52 WEEKS 53 WEEKS Group operating profit up 12% to 866m up 6.5% to 822.9m up 13% to 823.9m Group profit before tax up 6% to 805m up 0.5% to 763.2m up 9.2% to 781.6m Earnings per share up 6% to 24.7p up 0.4% to 23.4p up 11% to 24.2p Full year dividend up 9.5% to 11.5p per share Group operating cash ow 1,066.5m, before pension contribution of 400m Operating highlights Launched the &more credit and loyalty card in October 2003 and have attracted 2.1 million credit and loyalty accounts Opened the first Marks & Spencer Lifestore in Gateshead in February 2004 Opened 33 Simply Food stores at convenient locations where 1.2 million customers now shop with us each week Consolidated our position as the leading provider of Lingerie with a 26.5% share of the UK market Following the success of Blue Harbour, launched Blue Harbour Vintage and Sp during the year to target younger customers Improved margins by 1.5 percentage points last year due to efficiencies from sourcing clothing offshore VISION MISSION VALUES The standard against which Making aspirational quality Quality, value, service, all others are measured accessible to all innovation and trust CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 4 6 04 11:00 Page 2 Marks and Spencer Group plc Chairmans message LUC VANDEVELDE We have delivered financial performance which I would describe as honour, earlier than anticipated, a personal commitment to the Halley solid but clearly we are not satisfied with our saIes progress.
This will require me to play a market share gains that we had hoped to achieve were not delivered significant role in representing their and Roger, in his summary opposite, will update you on the actions interests and, as a result, I have we are taking to improve our performance.
However, it would be easy reluctantly informed the Board of my to lose sight of the fact that we are building this next stage on secure wish to leave the Companys Board of foundations, which we have put in place over the last three years.
I will remain in post for as long as necessary to establish my successor.
During this time we have changed our earnings per share this year, more than business fundamentally by: double the level of 2001.
Combined I have said previously that we can never continuing to improve our with the restructuring of our balance claim to have made it and that we must management team: sheet and capital return in 2002, we have always be looking for ways to improve developing our supply chain, which delivered a current return on equity, our business.
Looking back on my time will deliver further efficiency and adjusted for exceptional items, that is at Marks & Spencer, I feel immense reduce costs: this is only possible ahead of that achieved in 1998, the year pride that we have accomplished a because of the painful but necessary of peak Group profitability.
I do, however, shift to overseas sourcing.
In 1998, we operating profit increased by 12% to recognise that there is still much more to sourced just 20% of our clothing 866 million and Group profit before tax do.
I have greatly enjoyed this role and overseas and today that gure is 90%: by 6% to 805 million, all on a 53-week would like to extend my appreciation and exiting loss-making operations in basis.
Group operating cash ow is thanks for the support shown to me by Europe and the UK: 1,066.5 million before a pension colleagues, shareholders and suppliers.
ensuring that the balance sheet is contribution of 400 million.
A final 2 more efficient, with the return of dividend of 7.1 pence per share shows 2 billion to shareholders in 2002: an increase of 9.2% making the total delivering impactful but low-cost dividend for the year 11.5 pence improvements to our stores compared to 10.5 pence last year.
throughout the chain: and Luc Vandevelde making our special foods more Although we planned for better sales Chairman accessible to more customers gures overall, we have made progress through the roll-out of the Simply in Menswear, Lingerie and womens Food format.
These sales gures should not obscure the hard work throughout More specically, in the past year weve the business to ensure better choice and seen progress in creating new sources value, more appealing stores and of growth.
In our Food business, weve greater efficiencies, all of which will further extended our reach with the translate into shareholder value over the opening of more Simply Food and Food longer term.
In Financial Services, now rebranded Marks & Spencer Money, You can read how were doing in weve introduced the &more credit and corporate social responsibility CSR in loyalty card.
And weve opened the first our second CSR publication, now stand-alone Marks & Spencer Lifestore available on our website.
You can see as a major step towards becoming one details of our Marks & Start programme of the UK leaders in home retail.
that we think sets a new standard of effective, measurable social involvement.
All these changes have contributed to a strong recovery in the operating profit of Regarding my own role, the unexpected our core UK retailing business.
This has death last year of my very close friend enabled us to deliver a 24.7 pence Paul Louis Halley has meant that I must CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 4 6 04 6:58 Page 3 www.
com Chief Executives review ROGER HOLMES In the last year we have established new areas of growth in Money space, putting pressure on like-for-like sales.
At the same time, costs continued and Home, but the initial surge in recovery of our core Clothing and to rise.
The price of clothes fell Food business faltered.
We will now take fundamental action to during the period while food prices improve our products, supply chain, stores and ways of working.
The high street also took a smaller Summary of results Sales from our UK Retail operations proportion of peoples overall spend in Group operating profit before increased by 3.8% to 7.3 billion and favour of items such as mobile phone exceptional items increased last year by operating profit before exceptional subscriptions and travel.
Remortgaging 12% to 866 million on a 53 week basis, items increased 19.3% to 768 million activity has increased peoples spending due to the relatively strong performance both on a 53 week basis.
With consumer from Menswear, Lingerie and womens debt rising to high levels this is unlikely casualwear, improved margins and tight Clothing market share for the year to persist, but we think big-ticket items control of costs.
declined by 0.2 percentage points to like cars, holidays and furniture will be 11%.
Food maintained its market share more vulnerable than clothing and food On a 52 week basis, Group operating but only increased its like-for-like sales when spending subsides.
But while profit before exceptional items by 1.6% after two years of strong growth.
consumers are spending more on increased by 6.5% to 822.9 million after Home sales fell, particularly in the fourth expensive items they are also absorbing 59 million for the launch of quarter, as we took action to reposition increasingly looking for savings on the &more card.
This year, the profit our offer and reduce our reliance on more everyday purchases and price impact will be lower, at 40 million, as heavy discounting.
competition on the high street will we complete our initial investment.
3 Sales in our Marks & Spencer branded international operations, increased by There is a continuing shift in expenditure 6.6% at constant exchange rates in favour of out-of-town supermarkets excludes Kings Super Markets.
And the internet is growing in importance, extending Our balance sheet remains strong beyond initial categories such as CDs with 2.2 billion of property and also and books.
High street and city centres 2.5 billion of customer advances need to respond to make the most of through Marks & Spencer Money.
In March, we announced that the actuarial valuation of the Groups UK Business overview dened benefit pension scheme We experienced a modest decline in our showed a shortfall of 585 million.
We Clothing market share, led mostly by subsequently made a cash contribution Womenswear, particularly knitwear, and of 400 million, demonstrating our Childrenswear.
commitment to ensuring that the scheme is adequately funded and providing The image of our Clothing has improved reassurance to scheme members.
from three years ago and we have achieved progress in Menswear, Lingerie The market in context and in parts of Womenswear, especially The retail environment was challenging per una and our casual sections.
Consumer spending was more are still losing some occasional subdued than in 2002 03, with spending womenswear clothing shoppers and in on clothing slowing quite markedly in the last year our core customer has the second half of the year.
Despite bought less from us, particularly knitwear more modest spending, competitors and formalwear.
Despite price accelerated their investment in new reductions we still have to improve our CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 4 6 04 15:13 Page 4 Marks and Spencer Group plc Chief Executives review CONTINUED value against a background of significant We, therefore, face some significant prices to reduce our reliance on price deation in the market.
structural and competitive issues but Im discounting.
We expect to see confident that we can respond to them.
considerable long-term growth in this We are addressing these issues.
We Our customers continue to rate our food business, but sales will be affected as have strengthened our Clothing teams offer more highly than our competition.
we reposition our offer and prices.
with a particular focus on product areas They see us as selling food that is a real that performed poorly last year.
We will treat and of better quality.
We plan to Our investment in the &more credit make our Womenswear salesoors develop the appeal of our product even and loyalty card has created a customer easier to shop learning from our success further while reducing the reasons for base of over two million &more credit in Menswear.
This includes the launch of customers having to go elsewhere.
and loyalty card accounts and 2.7 million per una du, a younger more edgy We are on-track against our existing cardholders.
This makes us a top-ten range, which was launched in May and plans to open 500,000 sq ft of additional credit card operator from a standing a major expansion of our Limited Food-only space by March 2006.
Our immediate priority is to Collection, a new approach to our planning to extend this total footage increase card spending and balances so smartwear offer, which is being and will communicate our plans later that the credit card moves into profit introduced from September.
We will then look to add improve the choice we offer to our further financial products such as our customers in our 90 smaller stores.
We Our customers tell us that we have let successful mini cash ISA and will test a are also continuing to reinvest part of our standards slip, especially around more powerful in-store offer.
our sourcing gains in lower prices, the amount of time they have to queue particularly in our entry price points to at the tills and our product availability.
In Five years ago we moved manufacturing each range and also in Childrenswear.
response to this we will be making of our clothing offshore and this now improvements.
represents over 90% of our production.
4 Our Food is well regarded and we are This move improved our margins by positioned in relatively high growth We will continue to develop our product 7.6% between 2000 and 2003.
We held market share in Food last ranges in global and special occasion committed to achieving a further 3% year, benefiting from the roll-out of our food as well as in fresh and healthy food.
increase in margins by 2006 and made Simply Food stores.
Sales at key We will be aiming to renew at least 30% good progress with a 1.5% improvement celebration times of the year such as of our food ranges next year, particularly last year.
Following the significant shift of Christmas and Valentines Day were for special events.
We will highlight the our production overseas, we are now lower due to insufficient product unique qualities of our offer through focussing on the second phase of our innovation.
However, we did see uplift more effective communication and a supply chain development.
This will at Easter when we improved our offer.
include further rationalisation, an increase in direct sourcing and the Simply Food is responding to the desire There are two parts to our Home elimination of duplication in our logistics for greater convenience and is attracting strategy.
We will follow the opening network.
At the same time, customer new customers, particularly men and of the Marks & Spencer Lifestore in quality perceptions of our clothing have those aged under 35.
But in our existing Gateshead with two further pilot stores, continued to improve.
Customer returns stores we are not attracting enough new a town-centre version in Kingston, are now back to levels last seen customers and our core customers are Surrey, followed by one in Thurrock, 10 years ago.
These three will be used to test tending to increase their spend on large, the case for developing the concept Although we have made considerable weekly, supermarket shops and with further.
We now have a much larger changes, we still have much to do.
We the increasing number of quality and more stylish range and we will need to reduce the number of times convenience stores, spreading their continue to make more of this available goods are handled between factories convenience top up shops more widely.
in our main stores at more consistent CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 4 6 04 17:05 Page 5 www.
com and stores, control freight costs better 1,000 jobs.
Although difficult for our Conclusion and move our supply base to key hubs employees, this is an essential move In the last three years we have worldwide.
In the coming year we will if we are to create a faster-moving re-structured the business, stabilised our reassign close to 10% of our clothing customer driven business.
core operations and opened up routes sourcing.
Around one-third will be to future growth.
However, we still have redirected to existing full service The move from Baker Street to a significant amount of work to do to suppliers who we see as genuinely world Paddington will free us from the secure the full potential of the business.
The balance will constraints of an outdated head ofce I am under no illusions about the be used to strengthen our direct and allow us to operate like the fastchallenges we face, but I am confident sourcing capability which we expect to moving, customer-focussed company we can succeed.
I am supported by increase to around 20% of our supply chain.
a talented management team and committed colleagues from across the The rapid and low cost refurbishment Our teams will only succeed if we have business.
We share a passion to see of our stores over the last three years the right capabilities.
I have strengthened Marks & Spencer thrive and believe that played an integral part in the initial my top team, appointing Vittorio Radice our plans can put the business on a turnaround.
But while Simply Food is in to take responsibility for Clothing and more secure footing, delivering benets tune with contemporary standards and the development of our store concepts to our customers, employees, Marks & Spencer Lifestore has great in addition to Home.
I also promoted shareholders and suppliers.
potential, our main stores do not match Maurice Helfgott to take responsibility our aspirations or the best standards in for Food and appointed Mark McKeon the high street.
Our immediate focus is to the newly created role of Executive to redevelop our existing city centre and Director of Retail, International and high street stores.
We will be trialling Outlets to ensure our stores have the 5 new concepts for these in the coming right representation at Board level.
year, building on our recent work at Kate Bostock, Vittorios new appointment Windsor and Speke.
We will use these as Director of Womenswear, will bring pilot stores to prove the customer and with her invaluable product and Roger Holmes financial case for roll-out and, wherever merchandising skills that will help us Chief Executive possible, deploy new elements across build a compelling Womenswear offer.
To speed up our decision-making We are fortunate to have a dedicated I have created a single Executive workforce with a relatively low staff Committee which is a tighter and more turnover.
However, we have plenty of effective team and is responsible for opportunity to make the business more running the business, formulating and efficient.
As a result, we will be recommending the strategy and accelerating our Retail Change delivering plans agreed by the Group Programme in stores where we aim to Board.
It comprises the Executive align working hours with our customers Directors and Directors of IT, HR changing needs, as well as updating and Marketing.
Within our network of head ofces we will streamline our central costs with the expected loss of CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 4 6 04 11:02 Page 6 Marks and Spencer Group plc THE YEAR IN REVIEW brand, each with its own space in Our performance elsewhere was more stores so that customers know where to encouraging, particularly in casual Clothing nd the look and style that appeals to clothes, where sales grew by 11.8% and them most.
our share of a growing market increased Clothing is our largest business by 0.4% to 10.9%.
We saw good growth accounting for 50.1% of UK Retail Womenswear both in our core ranges of tops, T-shirts, sales inc. VAT last year and its When the performance of Womenswear blouses, jeans, shorts and swimwear.
Our success is very important to the is poor, it has a knock-on effect across Linen collection performed strongly and business as a whole.
During the year, our Autumn campaign, built around the our share of the Womenswear market suedette skirt and crinkle blouse, was Three years ago we halted the decline in fell by 0.4% to 11%, with a strong successful.
We continue to lead the our Clothing business.
But last year our performance from our casual collections high street in innovation with products return to growth suffered a serious and per una, our exclusive brand with like Linen with Lycra, machine washable setback with poor performance in some George Davies, offset by a decline in our with cashmere knitwear and platinumof our most important core ranges and core departments for knitwear and plated jewellery.
As a result, our overall formalwear.
sales fell 0.5% and our market share slipped 0.2% to 11%.
Source: Women are dressing more casually Fashiontrak.
The trend is towards a more individual look that We have a clear strategy to return relies less on top-to-toe suiting, our Clothing to growth.
It recognises that traditional strength.
Customers found customer demands have shifted our smart clothes uninspiring and our considerably and that we have not presentation confusing last year.
The moved fast enough to meet their knitwear range was seen as too safe and aspirations in terms of style and value.
too similar to our offer of the year before 6 and the accent was on heavyweight Customers will begin to see significant items at a time when the weather was changes in our offer this year, particularly unusually warm.
in womens fashion where we will apply the lessons we have learned in Lingerie We limited the impact of this by marking and mens fashion.
down products quickly and have strengthened our buying teams in Our core departments where knitwear, smart and casual clothes.
In a customers still go first for items such as longer-term change we have sourced tops, T-shirts and trousers will be given around 30% of our knitwear for this clearly dened areas within the store Autumn, including our entire with and product will be displayed more cashmere range, directly from imaginatively to create well-signposted manufacturers rather than through choice, in terms of price, style and t. suppliers.
Reduced buying times and We will also begin introducing a number improved margins have allowed us to of new classic and contemporary brands improve value and product appeal.
under the Marks & Spencer umbrella Menswear We are seeing strong growth in footwear, where we offer style at great value through our own brands and designs.
com per una had another good year.
The collection, aimed at women in their mid-thirties, is also popular with older customers wanting a more contemporary look.
In May we launched per una du, a sharper, more edgy range for women in their late teens to early thirties which we think will also appeal to the young at heart.
We need to nurture our core older our formal offer, broadening our Italian 7 customers while nding new ways to range and building on our growing appeal to those under the age of 35. success in areas such as shoes.
But trends in womens fashion are not just about age.
Increasingly, women We have successfully transformed our shop by attitude.
They are remaining casual and smart casual offer for men in Our traditional strength has been formal younger longer and many want to wear recent years, led by the launch two years clothes for men and, although affected more stylish, fashionable clothes.
In January we by the trend to more casual dressing, celebrated this success by introducing our market share increased from 17.2% The brands we will begin launching Blue Harbour Vintage, a younger brand to 17.9%.
This year we will relaunch our this Autumn will reect this shift in aimed at men over 35.
We also Marks & Spencer Tailoring offer, attitudes, offering contemporary and introduced Sp, a more contemporary providing customers with distinct price classic looks in both casual and smart brand, again targeting the slightly and quality choices for suits, shirts and clothes.
Our most significant launch, younger customer.
ties in more of our stores.
Essentials, and the biggest for us since per una, like underwear, have also been core will be the major expansion of Limited Mens fashion moves more slowly strengths in the past.
Destined than womens, but the trend to a for 66 stores, it is a new approach to more casual way of dressing is as Next year we will use supply efficiency our smartwear offer.
Recognising this, we have gains to fund better prices in essentials introduced more relaxed clothes into and improved quality.
We have also Menswear our Italian collection, aimed at more revised our buying practices to allow We increased our share of the Menswear style-conscious customers, including us to buy more regularly for shorter market to 10.2%, slightly up on 10% for jeans, linen blend jackets and knitwear.
periods, helping us to refresh our ranges last year.
As approximately 54% of We are seeing strong growth in more often.
mens clothes in our shop are bought by footwear and accessories, where we women, we expect to see improvements offer style at great value through our as Womenswear returns to growth.
This own brands and designs, both of which year we will concentrate on relaunching did well at Christmas.
CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 3 6 04 14:05 Page 8 Marks and Spencer Group plc Lingerie and Beauty But we will go further this year with the ribbons and pink-themed lingerie, Although the downturn in Womenswear launch in September of Ceriso, our first hosiery and sleepwear products.
We had an impact on sales of Lingerie, ever combined collection of lingerie, raised over 1 million for the particularly in the last quarter, we still sell sleepwear and beauty products with this Breakthrough charity last year.
more lingerie than anyone else and our younger age group in mind.
We will market share, at 26.5%, continued to also continue to develop Truly You, our Beauty had a disappointing year in all recover.
Our challenge this year is to functional yet atteringly feminine range, areas except skincare and cosmetics, meet strong competition from high and mw.
These will be clearly which were helped by the launch of street fashion chains by improving our segmented in our stores along with our Autograph Cosmetics, Organics offer for customers under 35. more sophisticated brands like Salon Extracts, our natural toiletries and Rose, Wild Hearts and Dolce Vita.
skincare range, and the new premium Nearly all areas of Lingerie improved, skincare offer, Revival.
Toiletry gifts were with sales of bras growing particularly We know our stores can still be hit by erce competition, particularly strongly.
We made significant progress confusing and difficult to shop and we ahead of Christmas.
with our DD-G ranges where products are testing new display techniques for are being redesigned to offer greater our departments.
We are also changing We are repositioning our Beauty comfort and support.
Only separates, our bra measuring service, training business, with more sophisticated such as slips and camisoles, and advisers to t by sight rather than using products and fewer promotions.
This shapewear declined, falling by 4% a tape measure.
will inevitably depress sales in the short against last year.
term but will place us in a better part We are proud of the work we do to raise of the market.
The challenge of having a leading awareness of breast cancer, both market position is to continue meeting through the special products we create the needs of all our customers.
Our and through sales in Breast Cancer Lingerie Heaven advertising campaign Awareness month last October of pink and in-store promotion, run in Autumn 8 2003 and Spring 2004, successfully demonstrated the breadth of our offer and that we understand what women want when they buy lingerie.
The campaign, backed by the most detailed customer research we have ever carried out, achieved high levels of recognition and boosted sales.
We have already made some progress in creating products for customers under 35. mw, our collection of great value fashionable lingerie for younger women mixed with underwear for men, was a successful innovation and we also expanded our range of knickers last year to meet demand for more fashionable styles and colours.
Childrenswear Our job is to provide clothes that children want to wear and mums and dads want to buy.
In schoolwear, we continue to lead in providing innovative products like stain resistant fabrics.
com continue to lead in providing innovative We are continuing to test technologies products like stain resistant fabrics.
We that can improve our stock handling will renew 70% of our range for the back and markdown management.
We are to school campaign this Summer.
In extending trials of the RFID radio tagging underwear and socks, we will continue system to improve stock availability but to invest in quality and competitive prices.
have been careful to demonstrate that its use will not compromise the privacy of The DB07 David Beckham range customers.
An initial pilot demonstrated enjoyed a good second year following RFID can improve stock availability in its roll-out into more stores.
In girls stores and we are now running a detailed daywear, we are concentrating on trial in the Menswear departments of six providing appealing and functional stores served by our Neasden depot in clothes, rather than fast fashion items, North London.
to help girls build a wardrobe including underwear, jeans, skirts, tops, knitwear, International stores and outlets pyjamas, dressing gowns and slippers.
Although we withdrew from many of our Childrenswear We see the baby market as a good area overseas activities four years ago, we Competition in childrenswear has to offer better quality products for have maintained nine wholly owned intensied in recent years and we newborns and toddlers.
stores in Hong Kong and a network of have seen our share of the market 155 stores run by franchise partners in progressively eroded.
Last year, that Supply chain 28 territories, mostly in Europe, the trend continued with our share down In the last five years we have moved to Middle East, Asia and the Far East.
sourcing over 90% of our clothing from These performed well last year.
Last year we rationalised our Despite continuing problems, our share logistics chain in the UK, moving from Kings Super Markets in the US, is being of the important schoolwear market five operators to two.
These changes in stabilised under new management.
Last stabilised last year and we made gains our supply chain mean we will improve year we decided not to sell the in key areas like underwear and hosiery bought-in margins by over 10% in the company, as it had not been possible by promoting competitive prices and five years to March 2006 and save for interested parties to raise sufficient quality.
These successes were offset by 20 million a year in logistics costs.
funds to purchase Kings at what we underperformance in our baby, girls and perceived to be a fair price.
boys daywear, which remain our priority.
Our priority is to get better product to our stores, more quickly and at better We operate 16 Marks & Spencer Outlets Our job is to provide clothes that prices, always in that order of priority.
offering customers the chance to buy children want to wear and mums and We are planning further significant recent Marks & Spencer products at dads want to buy.
We are working hard changes in our supply chain.
We are prices on average 30% below normal.
to appeal to our core customers focussing our sourcing in countries where The Outlets support the profitability of including parents, children, grandparents all aspects of product procurement are our Clothing business, helping us to and family and friends.
We particularly readily available covering yarn, fabrics, clear excess stock from our stores and want to attract customers under 35, garment making and componentry.
our suppliers warehouses, to make room whether they are young parents or These textile clusters are in centres of for new product.
excellence and geographically spread to support our requirements.
On logistics Breast Cancer Awareness In recent years we have changed our we will control freight costs more closely We are proud of the work products too often and overcomplicated and rationalise warehousing, cutting the we do to raise awareness of the design of our clothes and the layout number of times goods are handled breast cancer, both through the of our Childrenswear sections.
We are between factory and store.
We have also special products we create and through sales in Breast Cancer simplifying what we do in baby, girls and set a target to source 20% of all clothing Awareness month of pink ribbons boys, by concentrating on simple directly rather than through third parties and pink-themed lingerie, hosiery design, and a good range of popular by 2006. and sleepwear products.
In schoolwear, we CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 2 6 04 18:44 Page 10 10 Home Customers responded well to the This price repositioning had an Lifestore environment and were excited expected impact on sales, which were The launch in February of the first by the concept, but the product in some down 4.6% last year, particularly in the Marks & Spencer Lifestore, in areas has been too contemporary.
This is fourth quarter where they fell 13.7%.
Gateshead, was one of our most the first of a three store trial.
We will As a result, our overall performance in significant achievements last year, open a smaller, town centre version in Home was disappointing despite strong demonstrating how quickly we can Kingston, Surrey this summer and a full growth in stationery, cards and gifts, and bring new ideas to the retail market.
out-of-town store in Thurrock, Essex in bathroom and bedroom accessories.
Taken from design concept to summer 2005, taking forward the opening within 12 months, the store learnings in environment, product We have been selling home furnishings opened on schedule and within its appeal and price.
The store in Thurrock for nearly 20 years.
But Home still 14 million budget.
will have the advantages of space, caraccounts for only 6.5% of our sales and parking and full stockroom facilities to our share of the UK market is just 2%.
make it a destination, like Gateshead, With the total home market forecast for an extended shopping trip.
by Verdict to grow by 6 billion to 30 billion in 2007, we see an opportunity These trials are part of a concentrated to establish a leading position in the strategy to reposition our Home middle of this vibrant market.
Simultaneously, we are introducing a much bigger range of The Gateshead store indicates the sort more stylish products at more stable of approach we want to take.
It includes prices across our main stores.
We are an eclectic mix of 12,000 products, reducing our reliance on discounting in including a base range of 4,000 items furniture with a policy of first price, right that are available in our core stores.
price and, at the same time, we are Creating this extended range was a introducing more competitive prices considerable achievement, increasing across the range from dinner sets and the number of factories where we source pillowcases to sofas.
Many of CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 4 6 04 11:03 Page 11 11 these products are more stylish and renew: celebrate: cook: organise: We will develop the Marks & Spencer contemporary and we have reorganised escape: alfresco and play.
Each concept Lifestore concept carefully.
The Kingston our buying, merchandising and selling includes a range of products associated store will include all nine concepts but teams to maintain this new focus on with the ritual.
In relax, our living room with a more focussed product range, design and elegance.
concept, we group sofas, lighting, while Thurrock will be a replica of accessories, music and books while Gateshead.
We see a potential for up The look and feel of the Gateshead escape includes luggage, maps and to 20 Marks & Spencer Lifestores over store is striking and is organised around travel books.
But we will only roll-out further nine rituals of everyday life: relax: rest: stores when we have proved that the The centrepiece of the store is a first three can operate profitably.
complete two-storey house designed by the minimalist architect, John Pawson, In the meantime, we have started to Lifestore where customers can draw inspiration introduce a large part of our from seeing products selected and laid Marks & Spencer Lifestore product offer In February we launched our first Marks & Spencer out in its rooms by the designer Ilse at our 49 largest stores, supported by a Lifestore in Gateshead.
Our new catalogue, the new edition of our directory and an The look and feel of the Design Directory, has been brought improved e-commerce offer.
We expect store is striking and different.
We have together by Tyler Brl, the founder of the 280 smaller stores to concentrate on introduced new visual Wallpaper magazine.
A 100 seat caf in displaying a small part of the new range, merchandising and the heart of the store offers bistro-style really well.
To increase convenience, our distinctive packaging, including new black and food inspired by the Sydney-based chef, core stores will concentrate on home white shopping bags.
Our advisers wear accessories that customers can take distinctive black uniforms and are away immediately, while items that need trained to offer expert advice.
We have collecting by car or delivery will be introduced new visual merchandising sold through our out-of-town stores, and distinctive packaging, including new directory and website.
We believe the black and white shopping bags.
prospects for this business are good in the long term.
CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 2 6 04 18:44 Page 12 Marks and Spencer Group plc Food Accounting for some 43.4% of our UK Despite this, we recorded some Retail sales, Food is an important part significant achievements.
In April and Our customers continue to see of the Marks & Spencer business.
We May we won the Multiple Marketing Marks & Spencer as the place to shop maintained a 3.2% share source: TNS Campaign of the Year in the 2003 Retail for special food, produced to exacting of the UK grocery market last year at a Industry Awards with our Savour Italy standards.
Independent surveys time when the market as a whole grew promotion.
This brought together show that we are seen as leaders in by 4.9%.
hundreds of recipes with special offers freshness, quality and innovation and such as Italian prepared meals, where we last year that sense of trust in us was Over the year, total sales grew by 5.7%.
increased our market share and Italian once again endorsed by the many Adjusted for Easter, sales grew by 5.4%, wines, where we lifted sales to become awards we won.
We were particularly of which 4.1% was accounted for by UK market leader.
The relaunch of our delighted to win seven silver awards opening new space.
But we are Chinese food offer early in January and in the prestigious annual food industry disappointed that, after two years of February was similarly successful and Q awards.
strong growth, our like-for-like sales of introduced a range of quality new Food have not been as strong in the last products like Shanghai Beef Noodles.
three quarters of the year.
Although this is partly explained by poor performance But we face longer-term challenges.
in a number of key trading periods, it Food retailing in the UK is changing fast.
also reects particularly strong like-forOur competitors are now producing like sales in the preceding year.
But our more of the sort of products at which we results show that we have significant excel, like prepared meals and regional challenges to overcome.
They also enjoy more convenient out-of-town locations than us.
Shoppers Our performance was also dented last show a growing readiness to purchase year at important times.
During the more in big, weekly, supermarket shops summer, we offered too few of the than in the past and are taking 12 products customers wanted most, advantage of extended opening times, notably branded cold drinks, beers and especially at busy times of the year like ice-cream to complement our strong Christmas.
The rapid roll-out of our fresh food offer.
At Christmas, parts of smaller Simply Food outlets has been a our offer had not moved on, particularly success, giving customers a convenient ambient products like cakes, mince pies way to buy our food, but competition and biscuits.
After Christmas, our Count here is erce as well.
on Us diet range suffered because of the trend towards new low-carbohydrate diet solutions.
Caf Revive We opened 32 Caf Revive in-store coffee shops, bringing the total to 180 coffee shops in 172 stores.
Caf Revive is now the third largest branded coffee bar business in the UK.
com In the light of these challenges, we have price promotion.
We also know customer Food for special occasions carried out a detailed review of our service in our stores, particularly in till Our Christmas ordering service Food business and are now planning queues, does not always match the continues to be a success, leading the important changes in the year ahead.
quality of our food, and we intend to market despite increased competition.
This year we invested in improving the We plan to increase the appeal of our service and tackled queuing problems stores and the food we sell to entice Produce to increase convenience.
Products that more customers to spend more with us.
Last summers weather, the best for were once out of the reach of many The theme, which will be supported by 26 years, saw sales of fruit and salad peoples budget are less so these days effective marketing, will be Food Love.
grow signicantly and this helped us lift allowing more people to indulge in total sales of produce for the year.
Fruit wonderful food at special times.
We had We will concentrate our Food offer on sales grew, lifting our share of the UK particular success with the sale of four main areas.
We will prioritise fresh, market to 4.5%.
Salads and vegetables lobsters this Christmas, where we were natural, healthy and enjoyable products, also grew but our overall share of the market leaders.
such as sh, meat and fresh produce.
We will build on our strengths in offering We are increasingly looking to bring food for special occasions like Christmas We are immensely proud of the work together food with other products like and personal treats.
We will offer weve done to improve the quality of our wines, chocolates, owers, cards and customers ways to experiment with new food where we have bolstered our gifts to help customers celebrate special tastes and recipes from around the market share by working closely with occasions.
We know our offer here has world and will concentrate on doing suppliers to deliver unique products like to be innovative to be really special.
everyday favourites, like bangers and the Jubilee Strawberry.
During the On Mothers Day our ower selections mash and moussaka, especially well.
We summer, sales of strawberries, were too heavily geared to conventional will be aiming to renew at least 30% of raspberries and cherries were particularly basket arrangements rather than more our food ranges next year.
We will also strong, supported by TV advertising.
We fashionable cut owers, which did well.
communicate more condently to our remain market leaders in tray and bowl We will continue to do more in this area 13 customers the pride we take in sourcing salads and are continuing to grow our in the future.
We had a good Easter, quality food in a responsible way.
share of the more mature market for with a unique offer of gifts and side-of-plate dishes like coleslaws, chocolate eggs.
A key part of this new strategy will be potato and pasta salads.
We maintained to invest the efficiency savings we have our share of the prepared vegetables made in sourcing into better prices, market and continued to grow in organic quality and availability, as well as better vegetables, although the overall market weakened slightly last year.
Simply Food Customers are increasingly pushed for time and looking for more convenient ways to shop for food.
Simply Food is our answer to this trend.
The franchises are run with Compass Group at key transport hubs like busy railway stations.
CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 3 6 04 14:08 Page 14 Marks and Spencer Group plc Responsibility and healthy eating reduction of pesticides and residues on Sales from Simply Food outlets grew As we describe in greater detail in our our fruit and vegetables, publishing strongly.
The vast majority are new sales Corporate Social Responsibility Report, details of our success and failures on our to us although we estimate that around published on our website, we continue website, and were singled out in the 10% on average will be deected from to work hard to address our customers Friends of the Earth Real Food our main stores, where they are closely demand for food produced responsibly Campaign for our work here.
We have the ability to apply continue to use only free-range eggs very high standards in the quality and and to pursue our non-GM food policy.
Roll-outs of new formats are never sourcing of our food.
problem-free and we would expect a Healthy eating is an increasing concern, number of sites to be less successful We insist on being able to trace the amid worries about obesity, coronary than hoped.
During the year, we closed origin of all our own brand foods, heart disease and other diseases.
We our Barnet store, because it was poorly wherever they are sourced in the world, aim to reduce the salt content of our positioned to compete.
The closure was and are constantly striving to improve foods, which will go further and will be managed carefully.
Staff were fully the labelling of them.
In the Bird Flu achieved more quickly than industryconsulted and offered alternative epidemic that affected some Asian wide commitment.
We plan similar employment in nearby stores.
chicken production, we could reassure targets on sugar and fat content.
We ran our customers that no Marks & Spencer our first summer health campaign during We are pleased with this growing estate products were affected because of our the year, continued to promote healthier of new stores and are looking to policy on traceability.
foods for kids and supported the experiment with new locations.
We Governments five-a-day campaign by carried out a trial of the first Simply Weve been able to increase our share improving the labelling and choice of Food motorway store at Toddington of the Scottish haddock market whilst fruit and vegetable options.
services on the M1 in Bedfordshire working to safeguard the shing and have already opened a store at industry, by joining with suppliers to New ways to shop for food Manchester Airport.
We remain on plan pioneer new shing techniques, which Customers are increasingly pushed for to open 500,000 sq ft of new food-only 14 cut the risk of also catching cod, now an time and looking for more convenient space by March 2006. increasingly endangered sh which, ways to shop for food.
Simply Food is along with a host of other species, we our answer to this trend.
During the year, We opened 32 Caf Revive in-store are working to conserve.
we opened 52 stand-alone food outlets coffee shops, bringing the total to 180 taking the total to 97, of which 62 are coffee shops in 172 stores.
Caf Revive is We take concerns about animal welfare branded Simply Food and 14 are now the third largest branded coffee bar seriously.
During the year, we responded franchises run with Compass Group business in the UK.
to worries about chicken farming by at key transport hubs like busy introducing the Oakham Chicken range, railway stations.
which is reared in a more natural way with proper shelters and freedom to move.
com Money Europe, it also involved our largest ever We were disappointed to face criticism promotional campaign, including visual from the OFT, but determined to The launch in October of our &more merchandising in stores and TV respond quickly to its concerns and to combined credit and loyalty card was advertising.
We restructured our financial learn lessons.
We want to be trusted as a significant strategic achievement.
services operations in Chester to a responsible financial services operator.
We see our financial services business, manage the card and introduced new now called Marks & Spencer Money, call centres, including one in Mumbai, Customers are becoming familiar with as a growth opportunity that will India, to provide the sort of customer the combined credit and loyalty card support our core Clothing and Food support required of a major new credit scheme.
Redemption of loyalty vouchers businesses.
The card was introduced on is now rising.
In the last quarter of the &more card as a base for providing schedule and within its 60 million year, some 10 million of reward vouchers a range of good value savings and budget, with nearly half of our 5 million were issued to 1.5 million customers.
insurance products and developing Chargecard customers moving over to We are using the vouchers to offer our loyalty offer to entice our the new card in just six weeks.
We are customers a range of more personalised customers to shop more widely now a top-ten credit card operator in promotions across our catalogue.
the UK, from a standing start.
As we expected, Marks & Spencer For some years, people have been However, the launch coincided with Money profits have been depressed by moving away from using storecards in criticism in Parliament of the way the the investment we have made in the favour of credit cards.
We needed to cards industry was being managed and launch of &more.
Our immediate respond to this trend but we were regulated.
Shortly afterwards, The Ofce priority is to increase card spending and determined that the process of selecting of Fair Trading OFT reviewed our balances so that the credit card moves customers, setting credit limits and launch and, while praising the prudent into profit during 2006. managing fraud and debt levels should way we had selected customers and set be done with care.
We also wanted to credit limits, criticised us for not seeking As &more grows, we see an offer customers a card which gave them direct conrmation from customers opportunity to extend our range of 15 valuable benets, in the form of before sending them the new card.
At the end of the year quarterly loyalty vouchers.
response, we asked all customers to we launched a new Mini-Cash ISA contact us before their cards were savings account which, before closing The launch of &more was a major activated.
We now have 2.1 million to new savers, had attracted more than challenge for the business.
The biggest &more accounts and some 2.7 million double the number of savers, many new credit card launch ever undertaken in card-holders.
Those customers who customers to Marks & Spencer, and, did not contact us to activate the card at 325 million, more than twice the were returned to our existing volume of savings we had forecast.
continue to offer travel, pet, home and wedding insurance and launched motor cover during the year.
Other products will be added as we work to improve the convenience and attractiveness of our in-store financial services offer.
&more Customers are moving away from using storecards in favour of credit cards.
We will be using the &more combined credit and loyalty card as a base for providing a range of good value savings and investments products and developing our loyalty offer to entice our customers to shop more widely in our stores.
CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 4 6 04 13:50 Page 16 Stores A key part of our recovery plan has In April we announced a review to make been to modernise our stores.
Around our ofces in London, Salford Quays, 280 stores have now benefited from Manchester and Chester more efficient.
This We have told our 5,000 head ofce has enabled us to create a consistent employees that around 500 jobs are store concept offer across the chain.
likely to be lost this year and a further But we recognise theres more we 500 next year.
We are consulting fully need to do to remain competitive.
with employees on these changes.
Last year we began the first of a series We have already begun changing the of trials to create more inspirational Customers will begin to get a taste of way we work in our stores through the stores which are easier to shop.
We have how we intend to move our stores Retail Change Programme, recognising experimented with new display forward this autumn, when the initial that many of our work practices are not equipment in our smaller stores which results of the first phase of the store competitive.
This project is designed to has enabled us to offer 30% more choice design and development programme match the way we run our stores with in womens clothing without increasing are delivered.
We will use these pilot the way our customers shop, making overall stock levels.
This makes it easier stores to prove the customer and sure we have the right people in the for customers to see new lines financial case for roll-out, and, wherever right place at the right time.
Changes throughout the season as well as possible deploy new elements across include reducing the number of start providing more choice of colours in each the chain.
and nish times, extended opening line.
These trials resulted in improved hours, reviewing base pay levels, making sales at six smaller pilot stores.
sure teams work together for longer and freeing advisers to spend more We are also considering more People time with customers.
It will also make 16 comprehensive changes.
We have stock management and replenishment opened two fashion-only stores at Speke, Marks & Spencer has a highly more efficient.
in Liverpool, and Fforestfach, near committed workforce.
Our challenge Swansea to test our new store design is to remain an employer of choice, We are consulting with our Business concept, following early trials last year in offering colleagues an inspiring and Involvement Groups employee Windsor.
Later this year, we will make rewarding working environment, representation forums to ensure these major changes at our city-centre store in while becoming more efficient.
changes are supported and Newcastle and modernise seven smaller implemented locally.
We will continue town centre stores, starting with We are changing the way we work to invest in our six Retail Academies Basingstoke.
We will also be testing new throughout the company with one main nationwide to improve training in ways to display and merchandise our aim: to help everyone, wherever they leadership and new in-store skills.
food in these pilot stores.
The look of work, focus on offering a better Where changes have already been these new stores, the emphasis on customer experience.
made in a number of pilot stores, customer service, the way our employees performance has already improved.
dress and the equipment we use to During the year, we set a new two-year display product will all be signicantly timescale to achieve these changes but Retail Change different and will help us to deliver our customers should already begin to see Programme new fashion and food concepts.
Our Retail Change Programme is designed Our move from traditional ofces in to match the way we run our stores to the way Baker Street to a new London ofce in our customers shop, Paddington will allow us to change making sure we have working practices and introduce relevant the right people in the right place at the right new technology.
The emphasis will be on time and enabling more mobile working, in an open-plan advisers to spend more environment and faster decision making.
com New technology will enable us to During the year, we were ranked as the communicate with each other faster and global leading retailer in the Dow Jones with our supply base more effectively.
Sustainability Indexes for the second year running.
In Business in the Increasingly, we are trying to reward Communitys Corporate Responsibility colleagues for great personal Index we were rated as the leading performance.
Everyone is now assessed general retailer, and overall were ranked A key success during the year was the and a greater proportion of variable as 18th out of 139 companies, with a launch of our Marks & Start community pay will be based on individual score of 93%.
programme offering work experience to performance with a strong link to people with disabilities, the homeless, driving business performance.
Where our products carry the the young unemployed, school children, Marks & Spencer label, we can control students and parents wanting to return We are studying what our brand means our supply chain effectively and make to work.
to people working for us, from how we sure we source our products responsibly.
recruit the right people for different jobs This sets us apart from our competitors.
We made steady progress phasing out and environments right through to the the use of harmful pesticides and cutting uniforms colleagues wear in our stores.
In our first full CSR report, published residues on our fruit, vegetables and We are improving the way we select on our website at salads, winning recognition as the candidates for interview using a specially www.
com thecompany, leading UK retailer in the Friends of the devised 20-minute telephone interview we explain in detail how our global Earth Real Food Campaign.
We carried prior to an interview in store.
Last year, sourcing principles commit us to our policy of increasing the organic use of this system cut the cost of sourcing goods ethically and how we are produce we use into non-food areas by recruiting store advisers and section working with suppliers to spread good beginning to use organic cotton in some managers by 61%, resulting in an annual practice further down the supply chain.
of our clothes as part of a scheme to 17 saving of 1.6 million.
We also outline the progress we have encourage farmers in rural India to made in improving the quality and transfer to organic production.
traceability of our food and measures to improve animal welfare and protect Our challenges for the year ahead Corporate industries, like shing, on which we include making sure Marks & Start fulls depend.
We also explain some of its aims, to continue developing a Social our distinctive policies like using only rigorous policy on sourcing wood, to free-range eggs and non-GM foods.
make sure that we are leaders in farmed Responsibility The report also highlights areas like salmon feed standards, and to complete employment, energy and waste, our work to bring new suppliers for the We have a strong tradition of where we recognise that we have Marks & Spencer Lifestore into our corporate social responsibility CSR more to do.
but we want to make sure CSR is integrated into our operations at Our CSR Committee, led by the every level.
Chairman, Luc Vandevelde, meets at Marks & Start least three times a year, has developed Our Marks & Start community CSR is important to us in two main ways: an overall CSR framework for the programme offers work it allows us to to respond to opportunities Company and the executive committee experience to people with to differentiate ourselves from is regularly updated on CSR.
The Head disabilities, the homeless, the young unemployed, school competitors: and to identify the risks of Ofce and Retail CSR Forums oversee children, students and parents failing to meet the expectations of our activities in our ofces and stores.
CSR is wanting to return to work.
Both can co-ordinated by a full-time project team.
It is the biggest of its kind in the UK and Ireland.
help us to prosper, attracting shoppers to our stores, retaining the best staff, securing strong partnerships with suppliers and creating more value for shareholders.
CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 3 6 04 14:09 Page 18 Marks and Spencer Group plc Board of directors LUC VANDEVELDE CHAIRMAN Chairman BRIAN BALDOCK CBE SENIOR INDEPENDENT Appointed in February 2000.
Born in Belgium, DIRECTOR Luc worked for 24 years with Kraft General Foods where Appointed in October 1996.
Non-Executive he became Chief Executive officer of the French and Chairman of the Company from June 1999 to February Italian operation.
Brian is Chairman of Sygen International Group plc President and Chief Operating officer and latterly became and Wellington Pub Company plc.
He is also Chairman Chairman.
He built Promodes into an international retailer of the Royal Mencap Society, a past Chairman of The with operations across Europe, Asia and South America Lords Taverners, a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, and merged Promodes with Carrefour in 1999.
He is a Companion of the British Institute of Management, a Managing Director of Change Capital Partners, a private Fellow of The Chartered Institute of Marketing and equity fund.
Appointed non-executive director of a Trustee of The Rix Centre.
Vodafone Group plc in September 2003 and Carrefour SA in April 2004.
JACK KEENAN NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed in September 2001.
Born in the USA, resident in Britain.
Jack, currently Chief Executive officer ROGER HOLMES CHIEF EXECUTIVE of Grand Cru Consulting Ltd, was previously Deputy Appointed in January 2001.
Roger joined the Chief Executive officer of Guinness UDV and a board Company as Managing Director and became Chief member of Diageo plc until 2001.
He is also a nonExecutive in September 2002.
He was previously with executive director of Tomkins plc, The Body Shop Kingsher where he was Chief Executive of the electrical International plc, General Mills Inc and Amphora Fine sector and a main board director.
In 1994, he became Wine Fund plc.
Jack is the Patron of the advisory the Finance Director of B&Q and, three years later, he board of the Centre for International Business and transferred to Woolworths as Managing Director.
Prior to that, Roger had spent seven years as a strategy Management at Cambridge University.
consultant for McKinsey and Co. latterly as Principal, specialising in retail and consumer goods.
KEVIN LOMAX NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Chairman Appointed in September 2000.
A founding ALISON REED CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER member of Misys in 1979, Kevin became Non-Executive Appointed in July 2001.
A Chartered Accountant, Chairman from May 1980 until June 1985.
Since then, Alison joined Marks & Spencer in 1984 from Touche Ross he has been Executive Chairman, leading Misys through & Co. and, following a wide range of financial and a period of significant growth.
He has wide-ranging commercial roles, including commercial executive in the experience of the industrial sector, including previous Home division and divisional director of logistics, she was executive positions with Hanson plc, Wellman appointed Group Financial Controller in 1996.
Alison Incandescent Ltd. the Central Trading Group plc and became a non-executive director of British Airways plc in December 2003 and is also a Trustee of Whizz-Kidz.
STC, and is also a director of the Royal Opera House.
She will retire as a non-executive director of HSBC Bank plc on 26 May 2004.
PAUL MYNERS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Appointed in April 2002.
Paul is Chairman of Aspen Insurance Holdings Limited.
and Guardian Media MAURICE HELFGOTT EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, FOOD 18 Group plc and a non-executive director of the Bank of Appointed in November 2003.
Maurice New York Inc and of mmO2 plc.
He was previously joined Marks & Spencer in 1988 and held commercial Chairman of Gartmore Investment Management Limited.
positions in Clothing, Operations and International He is Chairman of Tate and a trustee of Glyndebourne.
before heading Ventures and then Corporate Strategy.
He was director of Menswear from June 2001 until his appointment to the Board.
He holds an MBA from Harvard Business School.
DAME STELLA RIMINGTON DCB NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Chairman Appointed in January 1997.
Dame Stellas career MARK MCKEON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, RETAIL, with the Security Service spanned 27 years.
She was the INTERNATIONAL AND OUTLETS first woman to be appointed Director General of MI5 and Appointed in April 2004.
Mark began his career the first person in that position to have her name made with Waitrose before joining Next, becoming Retail Sales public.
She is a non-executive director of BG Group plc Director.
He was subsequently Retail Director and then and an associate director of CPS, an executive European Managing Director of Episode, before joining mentoring and boardroom development company.
Starbucks as President of Europe, Middle East and Africa.
GRAHAM OAKLEY GROUP SECRETARY AND HEAD OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Appointed in August 1997.
Graham qualied LAUREL POWERS-FREELING EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR.
as a Solicitor in 1982 and began his career with the Navy CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF MARKS & SPENCER MONEY Army Air Force Institute NAAFI.
In 1985, he joined Appointed in November 2001.
Born in the USA, Marks & Spencers Legal Department and was appointed a British Citizen.
Laurel was previously Managing Director Head of Legal in 1990 and Company Secretary in 1997. at Lloyds TSB which she joined in 1994 as Group Finance In September 2002, he was appointed Head of the Director for Lloyds Abbey Life rising to Director of Finance newly formed Corporate Governance Group comprising and Retail Development within UK Retail Banking.
She secretariat, legal, audit and risk, insurance, pensions, began her career with McKinsey & Co. moving then to Morgan Stanley and on to Prudential plc.
She is a nonsenior remuneration, senior succession and board executive director of the Bank of England and is a performance.
member of Mastercard UK Members Forum Limited.
Audit Committee VITTORIO RADICE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, Remuneration Committee GENERAL MERCHANDISE CLOTHING, HOME AND STORE DEVELOPMENT Nomination Committee Appointed in March 2003.
Vittorio joined the Independent Company from Selfridges where he had been Managing Director and Chief Executive since March 1998.
Prior to joining Selfridges, he was with Habitat, initially as Buying Changes to the Board: Director of Habitat International and, subsequently, as David Norgrove retired as Executive Director on 31 March 2004 Managing Director of Habitat UK.
He is a non-executive Barbara Cassani retired as Non-Executive Director on 30 April 2004 director of Abbey National plc and Shoppers Stop India Limited.
com Summary reports The Summary financial statement on pages 20 to 24, the Summary remuneration report on pages 25 to 27 and the Summary directors report on this page are summaries of information contained in the Annual report and financial statements.
The aim is to provide shareholders with the key financial information in a clear and concise manner.
For this reason, the Summary financial statement does not contain all the information to give a full understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
The Directors report, the full accounts and the Auditors report on those accounts, which is unqualied, are contained in the Annual report and financial statements 2004.
Copies may be obtained free of charge from the Company as noted on the back cover of this report.
Summary directors report Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are Retailing and Financial Services.
Financial Services includes the operations of the Groups retail financial services companies, which provide credit and account cards, personal loans, unit trust management, ISAs, life assurance, personal insurance and pensions.
Review of activities and future developments A review of the Groups activities and of the future development of the Group is contained in The year in review on pages 6 to 17.
Dividends The directors have declared dividends as follows: m Ordinary shares Paid interim dividend of 4.4p per share last year 4.0p per share 99.5 Proposed final dividend of 7.1p per share last year 6.5p per share 160.7 Total ordinary dividend, 11.5p per share last year 10.5p per share 260.2 The final ordinary dividend will be paid on 16 July 2004 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 4 June 2004.
Directors Current members of the Board are shown on page 18, with details of their biographies and committee membership.
19 Maurice Helfgott and Mark McKeon were appointed executive directors of the Company on 19 November 2003 and 5 April 2004 respectively.
Justin King and David Norgrove retired as executive directors of the Company on 19 November 2003 and 31 March 2004 respectively.
Barbara Cassani was appointed non-executive director on 1 October 2003 and retired on 30 April 2004.
Summary Corporate Governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Company complies with all the provisions of the existing Combined Code.
A statement explaining our governance policies and practices is given in the Annual report and financial statements.
A detailed account of how we will comply with the new Code provisions can be found on our website at www.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.00 am on 14 July 2004 at the Royal Festival Hall in London.
The Notice of Meeting is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
Independent auditors statement to the members of Marks and Spencer Group plc We have examined the Summary financial statement of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual review and summary financial statement in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the Summary financial statement within the Annual review and summary financial statement with the Annual report and financial statements, the Directors report and the Remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual review and summary financial statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary financial statement.
This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of opinion We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, The auditors Statement on the Summary Financial Statement, issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
Opinion In our opinion the Summary financial statement is consistent with the Annual report and financial statements, the Directors report and the Remuneration report of Marks and Spencer Group plc for the period ended 3 April 2004 and complies with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London, 24 May 2004.
CR5916 M&S Review 19-28 2004 2 6 04 12:57 Page 20 Marks and Spencer Group plc Summary reports continued SUMMARY PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 53 weeks ended 3 April 2004 52 weeks ended 29 March 2003 Before Before exceptional exceptional Exceptional items Exceptional Total items items Total As restated items As restated m m m m m m Turnover continuing operations 8,301.5 8,301.5 8,019.1 8,019.1 Operating profit continuing operations 866.0 42.1 823.9 773.0 43.9 729.1 profit on sale of property and other xed assets 18.7 18.7 1.6 1.6 Net loss on sale termination of operations 1.5 1.5 Net interest expense 45.8 45.8 40.5 40.5 Other finance charges income 15.2 15.2 27.0 27.0 profit loss on ordinary activities before taxation 805.0 23.4 781.6 759.5 43.8 715.7 Taxation on ordinary activities 242.0 12.7 229.3 217.9 9.1 208.8 profit loss on ordinary activities after taxation 563.0 10.7 552.3 541.6 34.7 506.9 Minority interests all equity 0.4 0.4 profit loss attributable to shareholders 563.0 10.7 552.3 542.0 34.7 507.3 Dividends including dividends in respect of non-equity shares 263.2 263.2 246.0 246.0 Retained profit loss for the period 299.8 10.7 289.1 296.0 34.7 261.3 Earnings per share 24.2p 21.8p Adjusted earnings per share 24.7p 23.3p Dividend per share 11.5p 10.5p NOTES TO THE SUMMARY PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 2003 2004 2004 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks As restated m m m 20 Group turnover UK Retail 7,293.7 7,159.8 7,027.1 International Retail 677.8 665.0 662.1 Financial Services 330.0 330.0 329.9 Total 8,301.5 8,154.8 8,019.1 Group operating profit before exceptional items UK Retail 768.0 728.1 643.8 International Retail 47.4 44.2 42.8 Financial Services 50.6 50.6 86.4 Total 866.0 822.9 773.0 The layout of the profit and loss account shows pre-exceptional and exceptional results separately for this year and last year.
The left hand column for each year, which shows the pre-exceptional results from continuing operations, gives a clearer understanding of the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The reporting period for this financial year covers the 53 weeks to 3 April 2004, whereas the prior period covers the 52 weeks to 29 March 2003.
For comparative purposes, the commentary that follows, in so far as it relates to the profit and loss account, is provided on a 52 week basis to 27 March 2004 and 29 March 2003.
The results have been prepared using the same accounting policies as stated in last years annual report with the exception of those policies that have been amended by the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement Benets and Application Note G of FRS 5 Revenue Recognition.
Where relevant, comparatives have been restated.
com Notes to the summary profit and loss account Turnover UK Retail turnover including VAT comprises Clothing 4,032.6m last year 3,976.5m : Home 526.6m last year 542.6m : and Foods 3,490.2m last year 3,242.3m.
VAT on UK Retail turnover was 755.7m last year 734.3m.
A summary of the sales performance including VAT for the year is given below: 15 weeks to 11 weeks to 15 weeks to 11 weeks to 52 weeks to % increase decrease on last year 12 July 27 Sept 10 Jan 27 Mar 27 Mar Clothing 3.91.3 3.3 2.5 0.5 Home 1.6 1.7 5.1 13.7 4.6 Foods 8.1 5.4 4.7 4.3 5.7 Total 5.6 2.9 0.4 0.1 1.8 Operating profit The increase in UK Retail operating profit, before exceptional charges, of 13.1% on a 52 week basis results from a modest increase in sales, improved margins and tight control of operating costs.
Operating costs, excluding exceptional charges, of 1,835m increased by 1.2% on last year.
Employee costs, which are approximately half of total operating costs fell by 1.3%, largely as a result of a 29m reduction in performance bonuses for management and store staff.
Property costs fell by 3.4% as the store renewal programme was completed, and depreciation of 227.3m increased by 4.4%.
Other operating costs of 371.3m increased by 10.7%, this was largely due to costs incurred in improving business efficiency in Retail Change and the supply chain and IT costs to support the growth initiatives of Simply Food, Home and Loyalty.
Operating profit for those International Retail businesses which trade under the Marks & Spencer brand, increased by 19.8% to 41.8m.
In the Republic of Ireland, sales were ahead of last year and the performance of the three Simply Food stores opened during the year has been encouraging.
The franchise business and our stores in Hong Kong suffered in the first quarter from the effects of SARS and the war in Iraq.
However, following the end of the war and the removal of Hong Kong from the World Health Organisations list of affected areas, trading conditions improved.
The performance of Kings Super Markets was affected by local competition, a weak economy and uncertainty surrounding the disposal of the company, negotiations for which were terminated in August.
Since then we have brought in new management who have been working to develop the business and drive financial performance, and we have seen an 21 improvement in the second half of the year.
The most significant event for Financial Services this year was the October launch of the &more credit and loyalty card within Marks & Spencer Money.
The total impact of the launch on Money profit for the year was 58.6m.
Underlying profit was 89.5m and was impacted by the transfer of 300m of balances to the new &more card and the costs of running the enlarged cards business.
profit within Marks & Spencer Insurance, our Guernsey captive, increased by 5.8m to 19.7m, due to an improvement in the performance of underlying investments year-on-year and a release of insurance reserves of 4.2m.
Exceptional items The exceptional operating charge of 42.1m is represented by: 19.6m of one-off costs in connection with the relocation of our Head Ofce premises, which is planned to take place in the first half of the next financial year: and 22.5m in connection with the recently announced Head Ofce restructuring programme.
This represents the anticipated redundancy costs for 500 people relating to the first phase of the programme.
Property disposals generated a profit of 18.7m.
Taxation The tax charge of 229.3m represents an effective tax rate for the full year of 30.1% before exceptional charges, compared to 28.7% last year.
Earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share, which excludes the effect of exceptional items, has increased by 6% to 24.7 pence per share 23.4 pence per share on a 52 week basis, an increase of 0.4%.
CR5916 M&S Review 19-28 2004 3 6 04 20:53 Page 22 Marks and Spencer Group plc Summary balance sheet As at As at 29 March 3 April 2003 2004 As restated m m Fixed assets Tangible assets 3,497.6 3,435.1 Investments 10.0 29.7 3,507.6 3,464.8 Current assets Stocks 398.0 361.8 Debtors 2,750.9 2,412.6 Cash and investments 720.6 471.9 3,869.5 3,246.3 Current liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 1,884.7 1,710.9 Net current assets 1,984.8 1,535.4 Total assets less current liabilities 5,492.4 5,000.2 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 2,519.6 1,810.0 Provisions for liabilities and charges 49.3 186.1 Net assets before net post-retirement liability 2,923.5 3,004.1 Net post-retirement liability 469.5 895.8 Net assets 2,454.0 2,108.3 Equity shareholders funds 2,369.1 1,990.1 Non-equity shareholders funds 84.9 118.2 Total shareholders funds 2,454.0 2,108.3 22 Approved by the Board 24 May 2004 Alison Reed, Chief Financial officer Tangible xed assets relate mainly to our properties and their tting out and also to equipment and computers.
The increase in net book value of 62.5m reects: additions relating to our capital investment programme of 433.5m.
Of this, 118m was spent on new stores and extensions, 78m on the acquisition of warehouses following the general merchandise logistics review, 44m on store renewals and 39m on new refrigeration equipment: a depreciation charge for the year of 246.1m: an impairment charge for Michael House of 20m: and property and other asset disposals of 102.2m.
Within this, customer advances have increased by 436.5m since last year due to the launch of the &more credit and loyalty card in October.
Other debtors have decreased by 98.2m largely due to the receipt, shortly after last year end, of deferred proceeds from the sale of our business in France and by a reduction in the level of prepaid pension contributions for the UK pension scheme.
Net debt has increased by 163.3m.
Within this, cash and investments have increased by 248.7m, and nancing has increased by 412.0m.
The increase in cash and investments is largely due to the receipt of cash ISA deposits shortly before the year end, whereas the increase in nancing arises as a result of 400m of additional funding that was used to finance a contribution to the UK pension scheme.
Shareholders funds have increased by 345.7m after taking into account the prior year adjustments for changes in accounting policies which reduced shareholders funds by 930.1m.
These changes in accounting policy related to the adoption of new or revised standards for the accounting for pension costs, revenue recognition and shares held by employee trusts.
Retained profit of 289.1m, together with an actuarial gain on the post-retirement liability of 150.4m, have been partially offset by transactions with shareholders redemption of B shares and the purchase of ordinary shares totalling 87.8m.
com Summary cash ow statement 52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 29 March 3 April 2003 2004 As restated m m Operating activities Net cash inow before exceptional items and contribution to the pension fund 1,114.7 1,188.0 Exceptional operating cash ows 48.2 19.3 Contribution to the pension fund 400.0 Cash inow from operating activities 666.5 1,168.7 Dividend received from joint venture 8.0 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 49.8 46.2 Taxation 220.4 216.9 Capital expenditure and financial investment 293.9 294.4 Acquisitions and disposals 51.3 38.8 Equity dividends paid 247.1 225.4 Cash outow inow before funding 93.4 355.0 The Group generated an operating cash inow for the year of 666.5m last year 1,168.7m.
Within this, the cash inow from retailing activities was 602.3m last year 848.8m.
A major factor in the reduction in operating cash ow was the yearon-year net increase in contributions paid to the UK dened benefit pension scheme of 357m, being the one-off injection of 400m in March 2004 offset by a year-on-year reduction in regular contributions to the scheme.
This was partly compensated for by an improvement in working capital.
The cash inow from financial services activities was 64.2m last year inow of 319.9m.
Within this, the growth in customer cash ISA deposits, together with other favourable working capital movements, has more than compensated for the cash outow required to fund the growth in customer advances following the launch of the &more card.
Capital expenditure and financial investment generated a cash outow of 293.9m last year 294.4m.
This largely reects payments to acquire tangible xed assets of 428.8m last year 324.5m, offset by sale proceeds from the disposal of properties of 126.2m last year 25.0m.
23 Acquisitions and disposals include a net inow of 51.3m last year 38.8m outow, being deferred proceeds following the sale of stores in France to Galeries Lafayette less agreed adjustments under the terms of the sale agreement.
Equity dividends paid of 247.1m last year 225.4m represent the previous years final dividend and this years interim dividend.
After taking into account payments to redeem B shares and purchase ordinary shares, net debt has increased by 163.3m to 1,994.7m.
This breaks down into net debt within Retailing of 823.7m last year 701.5m and net debt within Financial Services of 1,171.0m last year 1,129.9m.
Comparatives for prior years have not been restated as in the opinion of the directors unnecessary expense would be incurred to obtain the relevant information.
Comparatives for 2000 and 2001 were restated in 2002 following the adoption of FRS 19 Deferred Taxation in 2002.
2 Excess interest charged within Financial Services of nil 2003 nil: 2002 6.4m: 2001 7.9m: 2000 nil should be added back to arrive at total operating profit before exceptionals.
com Summary remuneration report The full report on directors remuneration complies with The Expected value of future annual remuneration package Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and is set for full-time executive directors out on pages 16 to 23 of the Annual report and financial statements 2004.
Copies of these can be obtained, free of Fixed Performance related charge, from the Company as noted on the back cover of this report On-target Long-term Salary Pension annual incentives Compliance 41% 10% bonus 32% The Remuneration Committee has adopted the principles of 17% good governance relating to directors remuneration as set The value placed on long-term incentives is an estimate of out in the new Combined Code.
Full consideration has been the expected value of option grants and matching shares given to the best practice provisions set out in schedule A awarded under the Executive Share Matching Plan based of the Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
This upon the Black-Scholes methodology.
The pension benefit report complies with the Directors Remuneration Report represents the average contribution to Company pension Regulations 2002. schemes on behalf of the executive directors and where applicable any cash supplement.
Strategy Marks & Spencer depends upon the skill and experience of The remuneration for the non-executive directors is motivated employees throughout all levels of the business.
determined by the Chairman and executive directors and It is part of our strategy to have a range of alternatives to is designed to recognise both the responsibilities of nonattract, motivate and retain high calibre individuals to executive directors and to attract individuals with the accelerate the transformation of the business and deliver necessary skills and experience to contribute to the future improved performance.
The Board considers the principles growth of the Company.
The non-executives are paid a of good governance when deciding the remuneration basic fee with additional fees payable for committee strategy, and recognises that the level of remuneration and membership and to the chair of the committees.
These fees benets we offer is key to supporting this objective and are neither performance related nor pensionable.
They do maintaining our market position as an employer of choice.
not participate in any of the Companys Share Schemes nor the Annual Bonus Scheme.
The fees for non-executive Remuneration Committee directors were reviewed and changed effective from The Committee comprises Dame Stella Rimington 1 April 2003.
Chairman, Brian Baldock and Jack Keenan all of whom are 25 independent, non-executive directors.
Barbara Cassani was Salaries and benets a member of the Committee until her retirement from the Salaries and benets for executive directors are reviewed Board.
The Committee recommends to the Board the annually.
Salaries are benchmarked against equivalent reward framework to allow the Company to attract and market salaries for large retailers and for other FTSE 100 retain its executive directors and senior management, giving companies with a similar turnover and market capitalisation due regard to the financial and commercial health of the and are currently set around the median point of the Company.
The Committees approach reects the comparator groups.
The Committee sets the salaries taking Companys overall philosophy that all employees should be into consideration a range of factors such as the Companys appropriately and competitively rewarded, in particular to performance, market conditions, the level of increase recognise that the highest standards of performance deliver awarded to employees throughout the business and the improved business results.
wish to reward individual performance.
Current annual salaries for executive directors are set out in the Directors The Committee keeps itself fully informed of all relevant emoluments table page 27. developments and best practice in the eld of remuneration and seeks advice where appropriate from external advisors.
Under the terms of Luc Vandeveldes service contract, New Bridge Street Consultants have provided material the Company provides accommodation in London and advice to the Committee on directors remuneration in the independent tax advice on which he is assessed for tax.
The Chairmans remuneration package comprises a monthly allocation of 13,500 shares purchased each The Company Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Secretary month in the market.
He no longer participates in any and the Head of Senior Remuneration also materially share incentive schemes.
assisted the Committee in its deliberations, except in relation to their own remuneration.
Laurel Powers-Freeling is provided with accommodation in Chester, to accommodate her working pattern two days in Remuneration policy London, three days in Chester the location of Marks & Total remuneration for executive directors comprises base Spencer Money.
A taxable benefit arises, which is met by pay, variable pay, pension and benets.
benets are set at around median levels when compared A payment was also made to Roger Holmes, Justin King and with a specic group of retailers and FTSE 100 companies Laurel Powers-Freeling in respect of pension in the form of a of similar size, based on market capitalisation and turnover.
supplement of 10% of the difference between the pension Variable pay provides the opportunity to earn greater earnings cap and their base salary.
Vittorio Radice received amounts for the highest standards of performance.
The a pension supplement of 25% of total salary.
performance-related element forms a significant proportion of the total potential package.
There are two components to variable pay: annual bonus and long-term incentives in the form of share options and participation in the Executive Share Matching Plan.
CR5916 M&S Review 19-28 2004 3 6 04 14:35 Page 26 Marks and Spencer Group plc Summary remuneration report continued As part of his recruitment package Vittorio Radice was b Executive Share Option Scheme issued shares to the value of 665,000 in compensation for Executive Share Option Schemes, now open to the loss of outstanding Long Term Incentive Plans with his approximately 400 senior management, have operated for previous employer.
These shares are released in three over 20 years.
tranches, the first of which was released in July 2003.
The Under the current scheme, annual awards of up to 150% of remaining shares will be issued in July 2004 and July 2005, basic salary may be offered based on performance and subject to continuing employment.
potential and, for exceptional performance and potential, For executive directors the provision of a car and fuel is grants of up to 250% of basic salary may be awarded.
included in the emoluments table as part of benets.
Recruitment grants can be made up to 400% of salary.
The performance targets for the current Scheme are Annual Bonus Scheme adjusted earnings per share growth EPS measured from The Annual Bonus Scheme is designed to reinforce the the most recent financial year ending prior to grant of relationship between individual and corporate performance at least: and reward.
The targets are determined annually by the ination plus an average of 3% per annum for 50% of Committee and incorporate a mixture of financial measures each grant: and and personal business targets.
The Committee assesses the ination plus an average of 4% per annum for the other achievement of targets for all executive directors, with 50% of each grant.
Performance targets are assessed over an initial three year The current bonus for directors starts at 40% of base salary period from the date of grant.
If not met over the initial for on-target performance rising to a maximum of 100% for period, for grants previously made the targets can be reexceeding targets.
tested on two further occasions over the four and five year This year the financial targets have not been met and no periods from the date of grant.
For the year 2004 05, the award has been made to any executive director under this ability to retest will be removed from all grants.
This element of the scheme.
One director received an award performance condition was chosen because it requires a under the personal targets as shown in the emoluments significant improvement in the Companys underlying table page 27.
The bonus gure in the emoluments table financial performance for options to become exercisable.
is inclusive of amounts compulsorily and voluntarily invested As the current option scheme expires in 2005, the in shares for the purposes of the Share Matching Plan.
Remuneration Committee will undertake a full review of incentive arrangements over the forthcoming year with the Long-term Incentive Schemes 26 intention of seeking shareholder approval for any new longa Executive Share Matching Plan term incentive arrangements at the 2005 AGM.
An Executive Share Matching Plan for senior management Since the 1996 Finance Act, grants of Inland Revenue was approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2002 and was Approved options have been limited to 30,000.
Grants in introduced in July 2002.
The Plan currently operates for excess of this limit will be unapproved options, which confer approximately 25 selected senior management.
Participants no tax advantage on the participants.
are required to invest one-third of any annual bonus earned, in shares of the Company.
Any part of the balance may be Service contracts invested voluntarily.
All members of senior management have service contracts.
The pre-tax value of the invested bonus will be matched by These contracts can be terminated by the Company an award of shares, with the extent of the match determined providing 12 months notice.
Exceptions may exist where by performance conditions.
The current performance new recruits have been granted longer notice periods for conditions are: the initial period of their employment.
50% of the invested bonus receives a matching award The Company retains the right to terminate the contract of based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return any director summarily in accordance with the terms of their TSR compared to the constituents of the FTSE 100 service agreement, on payment of a sum equivalent to the at the start of the performance period: and contractual notice entitlement of 12 months salary and 50% of the invested bonus receives a matching award benets.
However, entitlement to participate in future based on the Companys TSR compared to a selected options under the Companys share schemes ceases on comparator group of UK retailers.
These performance conditions closely align the interests of All executive directors have rolling service contracts, which senior management with the interests of shareholders, by can be terminated by the Company giving 12 months rewarding management for achieving superior relative total notice and by the director giving 6 months notice.
shareholder return performance compared to direct competitors and the FTSE 100 as a whole.
Mark McKeon was appointed to the Board on 5 April 2004 with a 12-month rolling contract.
His current annual salary is 320,000 and no remuneration was received in the year 2003 04.
com Performance graph This graph illustrates the performance of the Company against the FTSE 100 over the past five years.
The FTSE 100 has been chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Company has been a member throughout the period.
Performance, as required by the legislation, is measured by Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus dividends paid.
Total shareholder return 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 27 Mar 99 1 Apr 00 31 Mar 01 30 Mar 02 29 Mar 03 3 Apr 04 The above graph looks at the value, at 3 April 2004, of 100 invested in Marks & Spencer Group on 27 March 1999 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The other points plotted are the values at the intervening financial period-ends.
Marks & Spencer FTSE 100 Index Source: Datastream Current annual Termination Total Total salary fee Salary fee Benets Bonus payments 2004 2003 Directors emoluments 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman 1 Luc Vandevelde n a 447 100 547 1,725 Chief Executive Roger Holmes 620 605 88 693 1,138 Executive directors 2 Maurice Helfgott 320 116 10 126 n a Laurel Powers-Freeling 350 342 70 35 447 699 3 Vittorio Radice 435 427 129 556 1,200 27 Alison Reed 360 352 36 388 695 Non-executive directors Brian Baldock 60 60 60 34 4 Barbara Cassani 50 25 25 n a Jack Keenan 50 50 50 34 Kevin Lomax 60 60 60 34 Paul Myners 50 50 50 34 Dame Stella Rimington 60 60 60 50 Retired directors retirement date 5 Justin King 19 November 2003 297 60 357 370 6 David Norgrove 31 March 2004 332 18 754 1,104 595 Former directors 681 Total 3,223 511 35 754 4,523 7,289 The elements included in the benets column of the emoluments table are described in detail in the Salaries and benets section on pages 25 and 26.
1 Luc Vandeveldes salary is paid in the form of 13,500 shares bought on the 10th of each month at the market price of shares on that day.
The gure in the emoluments table is his salary up to 31 August 2003 and the value of the share purchases from September 2003.
2 Maurice Helfgott was promoted to the Board on 19 November 2003 when his salary increased to 320,000.
3 Vittorio Radices annual salary increased from 435,000 to 485,000 with effect from 5 April 2004 to recognise his increased responsibilities.
4 Barbara Cassani was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 October 2003 on an annual fee of 50,000.
She retired from the Board on 30 April 2004.
5 Justin King retired from the Board on 19 November 2003 and his service contract terminated on 28 March 2004.
6 David Norgrove retired from the board on 31 March 2004.
His termination payment includes one years salary of 340,000 and 414,000 for loss of benets which includes bonus, car benets and loss of pensionable service.
7 The aggregate gain on options exercised by directors during the year was 11,000.
CR5916 M&S Review 19-28 2004 2 6 04 12:57 Page 28 Marks and Spencer Group plc Shareholder information Financial calendar Record date to be eligible for final dividend 4 June 2004 Annual General Meeting Royal Festival Hall, London 11.00 am on 14 July 2004 Final ordinary dividend for the year to 3 April 2004 to be paid 16 July 2004 Redemption date for B shares B share dividend payment date 27 September 2004 Interim results to be announced 9 November 2004 Record date to be eligible for interim dividend 19 November 2004 Interim ordinary dividend to be paid 14 January 2005 Ordinary shares There are 317,137 holders of ordinary shares as at 3 April 2004 and their shareholdings are analysed as follows: Percentage of Number of total number of Number of Percentage of Size of shareholding shareholders shareholders ordinary shares ordinary shares Over 1,000,000 267 0.1 1,586,835,130 70.0 100,001 1,000,000 696 0.2 244,538,804 10.8 10,001 100,000 4,752 1.5 108,836,890 4.8 5,001 10,000 9,117 2.9 63,245,467 2.8 2,001 5,000 35,264 11.1 108,040,780 4.8 1,001 2,000 49,765 15.7 71,277,466 3.2 501 1,000 66,957 21.1 50,193,260 2.2 1 500 150,319 47.4 32,177,137 1.4 317,137 100.0 2,265,144,934 100.0 Shareholders are further analysed as follows: Type of owner Private holders 299,488 94.4 458,645,862 20.2 Institutional and corporate holders 17,649 5.6 1,806,499,072 79.8 28 317,137 100.0 2,265,144,934 100.0 B shares Company Website There are 77,930 holders of B shares holding 121,244,763 Shareholders are encouraged to visit our website shares.
The next occasion when the B shares can be www.
com, which has a wealth of redeemed for 70 pence per share is 27 September 2004. information about the Company.
There is a section Holders of B shares will be contacted shortly before this designed specically for investors at date with further information.
Registered Ofce Registrars Waterside House, 35 North Wharf Road, London W2 1NW Lloyds TSB Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Telephone: 020 7935 4422 Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone: 0870 600 3995 Registered Number 4256886 www.
co. uk Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Governance Graham Oakley CR5916 M&S Review 19-28 2004 4 6 04 11:09 Page ibc1 www.
com Shareview Dividend Reinvestment Plan Shareview is an electronic shareholder communications You can elect to receive future dividends as shares rather service which has been developed by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
than cash by participating in the Dividend Reinvestment Registering for shareview is easy, secure and free.
If you would like to nd out more about the Plan, www.
co. uk, click on Register now and follow the please either log on to www.
co. uk where there is on-screen registration process.
Features of the service allow a detailed feature called reinvest your dividends and online you to: application or telephone Lloyds TSB Registrars.
check your Marks & Spencer shareholding receive an e-mail telling you about the publication American Depositary Receipts ADRs of the Marks & Spencer Annual review, Annual report The Company runs an ADR programme to enable US and Notice of Annual General Meeting on the investors to purchase Marks & Spencer shares in US Dollars Marks & Spencer website, instead of getting these in the over the counter market.
For further details please documents through the post contact JPMorgan Chase Bank at P. O.
Box 43013, send your AGM proxy voting instructions electronically Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA or telephone 781 575 4328 access information about your dividends or visit www.
value your portfolio by reference to a recent market price change your registered address details Capital Gains Tax set up a new dividend mandate or change your existing For the purposes of Capital Gains Tax the price of ordinary mandated details shares on 31 March 1982 was 153.5p each, which, when save your Company printing and postage costs and help adjusted for the 1 for 1 scrip issue in 1984, gives a gure of it to conserve environmental resources 76.75p each.
Following the capital reorganisation in March 2002, the Inland Revenue has confirmed the base cost for Share Dealing CGT purposes was 372.35p 81.43% for the ordinary shares A low cost telephone and internet dealing service has been and 68.75p 18.57% for the B shares.
arranged through Lloyds TSB Registrars which provides a simple way of buying and selling Marks & Spencer shares.
Unsolicited Mail More information is available online or by telephoning The Company is obliged by law to make its share Lloyds TSB Registrars.
register publicly available and, as a consequence, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail.
If you wish to ShareGift limit the amount of unsolicited mail you receive, contact: Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of The Mailing Preference Service 29 which makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider DMA House donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered 70 Margaret Street charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
London W1W 8SS Further information is available by calling 020 7337 0501 Telephone: 020 7291 3310 or register online at or visiting www.
uk The Mailing Preference Service is an independent organisation which offers a free service to the public.
Registering with them will stop most unsolicited consumer advertising material.
Print: Butler & Tanner Printed using vegetable-based inks on Revive uncoated which is made from a minimum of 80% fide-inked post-consumer waste CR5916 M&S Review 01-18 2004 3 6 04 14:49 Page bc4 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 04 Annual report and financial statements 2004 Corporate social Annual report responsibility and financial report 2004 statements 2004 only available on-line at www.
com thecompany Additional copies of this document and the Annual report and financial statements 2004 or an audio tape or CD, giving highlights can be THE QUEENS AWARD FOR THE QUEENS AWARD FOR ENTERPRISE INNOVATION ENTERPRISE INNOVATION 2000 2003 obtained by calling 0800 591 697.
