17 Notes to the accounts 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of accounting and consolidation The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain freehold and leasehold properties, in accordance with applicable accounting standards and the Companies Act 1985.
"UITF 38 ""Accounting for ESOP Trusts"" has been adopted for the Group in these accounts."
The adoption of this UITF represents a change in accounting policy and the comparative figures have been restated accordingly.
Further details are presented in note 20.
The Group continues to follow the transitional arrangements permitted by FRS 17 Post retirement benefits see note 5.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the audited financial statements of The Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries, PLC and all of its subsidiary undertakings for the 53 weeks ended 2 October 2004 2003: 52 weeks ended 27 September 2003.
The results of new subsidiary undertakings are included in the Group accounts from the date of acquisition.
b Turnover and other operating income Turnover represents the value of goods and services supplied to customers, and rents receivable from licensed properties.
Rental income is recognised in respect of the period to which it relates.
Turnover is recorded net of discounts, intra-Group transactions and VAT.
Other operating income comprises mainly rents from unlicensed properties.
c Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct materials and a proportion of appropriate overheads.
d Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date which give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Timing differences are differences between the Group's taxable profits and profits as stated in the accounts.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted and assets are only recognised where recoverability is probable.
e Tangible fixed assets Freehold and leasehold properties are stated at valuation or at cost.
Plant, furnishings, equipment and other similar items are stated at cost.
Freehold buildings are depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis over 50 years.
Other tangible fixed assets are depreciated to residual value on a straight line basis at rates calculated to provide for the cost of the assets over their anticipated useful lives.
Leasehold properties are depreciated over the lower of the lease period and 50 years and other tangible assets over periods ranging from three to 15 years.
Own labour directly attributable to capital projects is capitalised.
Valuation of properties: Trading properties are revalued professionally by independent valuers on a five-year rolling basis.
When a valuation or expected proceeds are below current carrying value the asset concerned is reviewed for impairment.
Impairment losses are charged to the revaluation reserve to the extent that a previous gain has been recorded, and thereafter to the profit and loss account.
Surpluses on revaluation are recognised in the revaluation reserve, except where they reverse previously charged impairment losses, in which case they are recorded in the profit and loss account.
f Fixed asset disposals Profit loss on fixed asset disposals is net sale proceeds less carrying value of the assets.
g Pensions Pension costs for the Group's final salary pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the average working life of employees, in accordance with the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
Variations from the regular cost are spread over the average remaining service lives of the employees.
Pension costs for the Group's defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the profit and loss account in the period incurred.
