Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are required by UK company law to prepare financial These accounts are published on the Groups website statements for each financial period that give a true and fair view www.
The work carried out by the auditors does not of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Group for accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred that period.
to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
In preparing the accounts the directors are required to select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently, to make The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and to state that the website.
The directors recognise the uncertainty regarding legal all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have requirements of financial statements published on websites, which been followed, save as disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
The is compounded as information published on the internet is directors are also required to prepare the accounts on the going accessible in many countries.
Legislation in the United Kingdom concern basis unless it is inappropriate to do so.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and which enable them to By order of the Board ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
John G Berry The directors also have responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to Company Secretary prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
