Audited financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc Opinion In our opinion: 3i Group plcs Group financial statements and Parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of 3i Group plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year to Company statement of financial position as at 31 March 2018 31 March 2018 Consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 March 2018 Company statement of changes in equity for the year to 31 March 2018 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year to Company cash flow statement for the year to 31 March 2018 31 March 2018 Consolidated cash flow statement for the year to 31 March 2018 Significant accounting policies Related notes 1 to 30 to the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the Parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and Parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 47 to 51 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 47 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 89 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 47 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 139 Audited financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc continued Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Incorrect valuation of unquoted proprietary investments.
Incorrect calculation of carried interest.
Incorrect recognition of portfolio income and of realised profits on disposal of investments.
The first two risks are considered to be significant risks, consistent with the 2017 audit.
Audit scope The Group is principally managed from one location in London.
All core functions, including finance and operations, are located in London.
The Group operates seven international offices, which are primarily responsible for deal origination and investment portfolio monitoring.
The Group comprises 87 consolidated subsidiaries and 62 investment entity subsidiaries.
Monitoring and control over the operations of these subsidiaries, including those located overseas, is centralised in London.
The London based Group audit team performed direct audit procedures on all items material to the Group financial statements.
Our audit sample covered 99% of the investment portfolio and 99% of carried interest accruals.
This approach is consistent with the 2017 audit.
Materiality Overall Group materiality is 70m 2017: 58m which represents 1% of net assets.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
140 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Audited financial statements Risk Our response to the risk Group and Parent company risk Our procedures extended to testing 99% of the related balance.
Incorrect valuation of unquoted proprietary investments We obtained an understanding of managements processes and 5,806m, PY comparative 4,782m controls for determining the fair valuation of unquoted proprietary investments.
This included discussing with management the Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report pages 66 to valuation governance structure and protocols around their oversight 69 : Significant accounting policies page 101 : and Notes 10, 11 of the valuation process and corroborating our understanding by and 12 of the financial statements pages 112 to 116 attending Valuations Committee meetings.
We have identified key The proprietary investment portfolio comprises a number of controls in the process, assessed the design adequacy and tested the unquoted securities.
In the Consolidated statement of financial operating effectiveness of those controls.
We were able to rely on position these are shown both as Investments which are held directly controls over portfolio company and comparable company data used by consolidated subsidiaries of the Group and Parent Company, in the valuation of unquoted investments.
and as Investments in investment entities which are typically limited We compared managements valuation methodology to IFRS and the partnerships and other holding structures.
In the Company IPEV guidelines.
We sought explanations from management where statement of financial position these are shown both as investments there were judgments applied in its application of the guidelines which are held directly by the Parent Company, and as Investments and assessed their appropriateness.
in investment entities which are included within the Interests in With the assistance of our valuations specialists, we formed an Group entities line item.
independent range for the key assumptions used in the valuation The Group adopts a valuation methodology based on the of a sample of unquoted investments, with reference to the relevant International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation 2015 IPEV industry and market valuation considerations.
We derived a range of guidelines, in conformity with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurements fair values using our assumptions and other qualitative risk factors.
Owing to the unquoted and illiquid nature of these We compared these ranges with managements assumptions, and investments, the assessment of fair valuation is subjective and discussed our results with both management and the Valuations requires a number of significant and complex judgments to be made Committee.
The exit value will be determined by the market at With respect to unquoted investments in the private equity business the time of realisation and therefore despite the valuation policy line, on a sample basis we corroborated key inputs in the valuation adopted and judgments made by management, the final sales value models, such as earnings and net debt to source data.
We also may differ materially from the valuation at the year end date.
performed the following procedures on key judgments made by There is the risk that inaccurate judgments made in the assessment management in the calculation of fair value: of fair value, in particular in respect of: earnings multiples, the assessed the suitability of the comparable companies used in the application of liquidity discounts, calculation of discount rates and the estimation of future maintainable earnings, could lead to the calculation of the earnings multiples: incorrect valuation of the unquoted proprietary investment portfolio.
challenged management on the applicability of adjustments In turn, this could materially misstate the value of the Investment made to earnings multiples by obtaining rationale and supporting portfolio in the Consolidated statement of financial position, the evidence for adjustments made: Gross investment return and Total return in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, and the Net asset value per performed corroborative calculations to assess the share.
appropriateness of discount rates: and There is also the risk that management may influence the significant discussed with management the adjustments made to judgments and estimations in respect of unquoted proprietary calculate future maintainable earnings and corroborated this to investment valuations in order to meet market expectations of the supporting documentation.
overall Net asset value of the Group.
We checked the mathematical accuracy of the valuation models on The risk has neither increased nor decreased in the current year.
We recalculated the unrealised profits on the revaluation of investments impacting the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
We discussed with management the rationale for any differences between the exit prices of investments realised during the year and the prior year fair value, to further verify the reasonableness of the current year valuation models and methodology adopted by management.
We performed a site visit, accompanied by our Valuations Specialists, to the most material asset in the portfolio, which enabled us to corroborate our understanding of, and gain specific insights into, the asset.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Compliance Committee: The valuation of the unquoted proprietary investment portfolio is determined to be within a reasonable range of fair values.
All valuations tested are materially in accordance with IFRS and the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines IPEV Guidelines December 2015.
Reasonable inputs to the valuations were used.
Based on our procedures performed we had no material matters to report to the Audit and Compliance Committee.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 141 Audited financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc continued Risk Our response to the risk Group and Parent company risk Our procedures extended to testing 99% of the related balance.
Incorrect calculation of carried interest carried interest and We obtained an understanding of managements processes and performance fees receivable 596m, PY comparative 366m: controls for the calculation of carried interest by performing carried interest and performance fees payable 870m, PY walkthrough procedures, and discussing with management the comparative 685m governance structure and protocols around their oversight of the carried interest arrangements.
We adopted a substantive approach Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report pages 66 to to our testing.
69 : Significant accounting policies page 101 : and Notes 13 and 14 of the financial statements pages 116 to 118 We agreed a sample of calculation methodologies to their respective terms and conditions set out in the underlying agreements.
Carried interest receivable is an accrual of the share of the profits Our audit procedures on the fair value of the underlying investments from funds managed by the Group on behalf of third parties.
Carried are described in the preceding risk section.
We performed analytical interest payable is an accrual of amounts payable to investment procedures comparing the performance of the reference investments executives in respect of the returns on successful investments both in each fund or scheme, taking into account the investment from Group proprietary capital and third-party capital.
Carried realisations, to the related accruals in the financial statements.
interest is only paid on realisation of investments.
On a sample basis we: Carried interest receivable and payable is calculated as a percentage of the profits that would be achieved, if the investments within each recalculated the returns on the fund or scheme to test that hurdles fund or scheme were realised at fair value at the year-end date, or performance conditions had been met where carried interest subject to the relevant hurdle rates or performance conditions being was being accrued: met.
recalculated the carried interest accruals for mathematical accuracy and agreed the investment fair values to our audit work on the Judgment is required in determining the fair value of the investment fair value of the investment portfolio, the fee rates to the relevant portfolio as described in the preceding risk section and therefore, agreements and realised gains to our audit work on realised profits: whether hurdles or performance conditions have been achieved.
determined the reasonableness of investment exit dates with There are multiple carried interest arrangements in place and reference to our audit work on the fair value of the investment investment executives may participate in more than one scheme.
portfolio and our understanding of the life cycle of the relevant These arrangements have been structured over multiple periods and investments, and then compared this against the anticipated include different pools of investments.
The process of calculating payment dates used to discount the carried interest accrual: and carried interest receivable and payable relies on manual calculations.
ensured the resulting cash flow was as a result of a triggering event Due to the complexities inherent in the arrangements and the such as a realisation or a re-finance by verifying the cash flow to manual nature of the recognition process, there is a risk that the bank statements and in the case of carry payable to award letters carried interest calculations are incorrectly calculated or recognised sent to investment executives.
Carried interest is recorded in the Consolidated statement of financial position as Carried interest and performance fees receivable or Carried interest and performance fees payable, and is also recorded within Investments in investment entity subsidiaries.
The risk has neither increased nor decreased in the current year.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Compliance Committee: Our audit procedures did not identify any matters regarding the recognition of carried interest in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
All calculations tested have been performed materially in accordance with contractual terms.
142 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Audited financial statements Risk Our response to the risk Group and Parent company risk Our procedures extended to testing 81% of the related amount.
Incorrect recognition of portfolio income and of realised profits We obtained an understanding of the processes and controls around on disposal of investments 364m, PY comparative 138m accounting for portfolio income and realised gains by performing walkthroughs of the processes.
We identified key controls in the Refer to the Audit and Compliance Committee report pages 66 processes, assessed design adequacy and tested the operating to 69 : Significant accounting policies page 102 : and Note 2 of effectiveness of those controls.
the financial statements page 107 We performed detailed testing on a sample of transactions in order Portfolio income is directly attributable to the return from to confirm whether they had been appropriately recorded in the investments.
This includes: dividends from investee companies and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
interest income from the investment portfolio.
For portfolio income, on a sample basis, we: Realised profits originate from disposals of investments.
Realised agreed dividends from investee companies to the dividend notice: profits are calculated as the difference between the net proceeds and and the investments fair value at the beginning of the year.
recalculated interest income based on the terms of the Market expectations and revenue based targets may place pressure underlying agreements.
on management to influence the recognition of portfolio income or For all samples selected for testing we verified that revenue is realised gains.
This may result in overstatement or deferral of recognised when the rights to receive the income have been revenues to assist in meeting current or future targets or established.
For realised gains, on a sample basis, we: Where income is recorded in a consolidated subsidiary, in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income it is recorded as analysed the contract and terms of the sale to determine whether Portfolio Income and Realised profits losses over value on the the Group has met the stipulated requirements, confirming that disposal of investments.
Where the income is recorded in an the net proceeds and therefore the realised profits over opening investment entity subsidiary, it is recorded as Fair value movements value can be reliably measured: and on investment entity subsidiaries.
re-performed managements calculations to determine mathematical accuracy and confirmed the collection of the net The risk has neither increased nor decreased in the current year.
proceeds by agreeing the cash receipt to bank statements.
For all samples selected for testing we verified that revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
In order to address the risk of cut-off, we performed enquiries of management, read minutes of meetings throughout the year and subsequent to the year end, and performed journal entry testing in order to address the risk of management override of controls to overstate or defer revenue recognition.
Key observations communicated to the Audit and Compliance Committee: Our audit procedures did not identify any material matters regarding the recognition of portfolio income and of realised profits on disposal of investments.
All transactions tested have been materially recognised in accordance with contractual terms and IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
In the prior year, our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation to incorrect accounting treatment of the sale of the Debt Management business and calculation of the profit on disposal.
This key audit matter is no longer applicable for the current year, as the Debt Management business was sold during the prior year and there are no discontinued operations as at 31 March 2018.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the Consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The investment portfolio balance is the most material part of the Consolidated statement of financial position.
Monitoring and control over the valuation of investments is exercised by management centrally in London, and as such is audited wholly by the London based Group audit team.
Monitoring and control over the operations of the subsidiaries within the Group, including those located overseas, is centralised in London.
The Group audit team performed all the work necessary to issue the Group and Parent company audit opinion, including undertaking all of the audit work on the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Involvement with component teams All audit work performed for the purposes of the audit was undertaken by the Group audit team.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 143 Audited financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc continued Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 70 million 2017: 58 million, which is 1% 2017: 1% of net assets.
We believe that net assets provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality, and is the most relevant measure to the stakeholders of the entity.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 66 million 2017: 41 million, which is 1% 2017: 1% of net assets.
We calculated materiality during the planning stage of the audit and then during the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality based on 31 March 2018 net asset value, and adjusted our audit procedures accordingly Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgment was that performance materiality was 50% 2017: 50% of our planning materiality, namely 35m 2017: 29m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to the judgmental nature of the valuations in the Consolidated statement of financial position and the relative value of transactions recorded in the other primary statements, to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality of 70m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit and Compliance Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 3.5m 2017: 2.9m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 90 and 147 to 156, including the Strategic report including sections on: Introduction, Performance highlights, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives statement, Action, Our business at a glance, Our business model, Our strategic objectives, Key performance indicators, Private Equity, Infrastructure, Financial review, Investment basis, Reconciliation of Investment basis and IFRS, Alternative Performance Measures, Risk management, Principal risks and mitigations and Sustainability, Directors report including sections on: Chairmans introduction, Board of Directors and Executive Committee, Nominations Committee report, Audit and Compliance Committee report, Valuations Committee report, Relations with shareholders and Additional statutory and corporate governance information, Directors remuneration report and Portfolio and other information including sections on: 20 Large investments, Portfolio valuation an explanation, Information for shareholders and Glossary sections, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
144 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Audited financial statements In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 90 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 66 to 69 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 85 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 90, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and Parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 145 Audited financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of 3i Group plc continued Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements.
We determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and relevant tax compliance regulations.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and relevant FCA rules and regulations.
We understood how 3i Group plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of senior management, including the General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Finance Director, Head of Compliance, Head of Internal Audit and also Non-Executive Directors including the Chairmen of the Audit and Compliance Committee and Valuations Committee.
We corroborated our understanding through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit and Compliance Committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their potential influence on efforts made by management to manage net asset value per share or the total return on equity.
We considered the controls that the Group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of senior management: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
The FCA has regulatory oversight over 3i Group plc and certain other entities within the Group.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the board on 5 November 1973 to audit the financial statements of the Parent company for the period ending 31 March 1974 and subsequent financial periods.
Our appointment was subsequently ratified at the annual general meeting of the Parent company on 6 August 1974.
Our total uninterrupted period of engagement is 45 years, covering periods from our appointment through to the period ending 31 March 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the Parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Julian Young Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 16 May 2018 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
146 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Portfolio and other information Includes details of our 20 Large investments, a glossary of terms and other useful shareholder information 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 147 Portfolio and other information 20 Large investments The 20 investments listed below account for 93% of the portfolio at 31 March 2018 31 March 2017: 89%.
For each of our investments we have assessed whether they classify as accounting subsidiaries under IFRS and or subsidiaries under the UK Companies Act.
This assessment forms the basis of our disclosure of accounting subsidiaries in the financial statements.
The UK Companies Act defines a subsidiary based on voting rights, with a greater than 50% majority of voting rights resulting in an entity being classified as a subsidiary.
IFRS 10 applies a wider test and, if a group is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect these returns through its power over the investee then it has control, and hence the investee is deemed an accounting subsidiary.
Controlled subsidiaries under IFRS are noted below.
None of these investments are UK Companies Act subsidiaries.
In accordance with Part 5 of The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013 the Regulations, 3i Investments plc, as AIFM, requires all controlled portfolio companies to make available to employees an annual report which meets the disclosure requirements of the Regulations.
These are available either on the portfolio companys website or through filing with the relevant local authorities.
Residual Residual 1 Business line cost cost Valuation Valuation 2 2 Geography March March March March Relevant Investment Firstinvested in 2017 2018 2017 2018 transactions Description of business Valuation basis m m m m inthe year Action Private Equity 1 12 1,708 2,064 Refinancing returned Non-food discount retailer Netherlands 307m ofproceeds 2011 Earnings Scandlines Private Equity 114 114 538 803 Refinancing returned Ferry operator between Denmark Germany 50m ofproceeds in Denmarkand Germany 2007 2013 July 2017, sale announced Imminent sale in March 2018 3i Infrastructure plc Infrastructure 399 310 655 581 Special dividend returned Quoted investment company, UK 143m of proceeds investing in infrastructure 2007 Quoted Basic-Fit Private Equity 11 11 184 270 Discount gyms operator Netherlands 2013 Quoted WP Private Equity 161 175 200 244 Supplier of plastic Netherlands packaging solutions 2015 Earnings Audley Travel Private Equity 177 195 185 233 Provider of experiential UK tailor-made travel 2015 Earnings Q Holding Private Equity 162 162 222 229 Manufacturer of precision US engineered elastomeric 2014 components Earnings Cirtec Medical Private Equity 172 190 New investment Outsourced medical US device manufacturing 2017 Earnings Hans Anders Private Equity 186 189 New investment Value-for-money Netherlands optical retailer 2017 Earnings 148 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 Portfolio and otherinformation Residual Residual 1 Business line cost cost Valuation Valuation 2 2 Geography March March March March Relevant Investment Firstinvested in 2017 2018 2017 2018 transactions Description of business Valuation basis m m m m inthe year Smarte Carte Infrastructure 166 167 New investment Provider of self-serve vended US luggage carts, electronic lockers 2017 and concession carts DCF Schlemmer Group Private Equity 162 174 154 152 Manufacturer of cable Germany management solutions forthe 2016 automotive industry Earnings Ponroy Sant Private Equity 123 139 122 145 Manufacturer of natural France healthcare and 2017 cosmeticsproducts Earnings AES Engineering Private Equity 30 30 113 139 Manufacturer of mechanical UK  1996 Earnings BoConcept Private Equity 140 142 146 137 Urban living designer Denmark 2016 Earnings Formel D Private Equity 138 133 New investment Quality assurance provider Germany  2017 Earnings ACR Private Equity 105 105 135 129 Pan-Asian non-life reinsurance Singapore 2006 Industry metric Tato Private Equity 2 2 112 114 Manufacturer and seller of UK speciality chemicals 1989 Earnings Lampenwelt Private Equity 98 111 New investment Online lighting specialist retailer Germany 2017 Earnings Aspen Pumps Private Equity 78 86 88 108 Manufacturer of pumps and UK accessories for the air 2015 conditioning, heating and Earnings refrigeration industry Euro-Diesel Private Equity 57 62 95 82 Manufacturer of uninterruptible Belgium power supply systems 2015 Earnings 1,722 2,479 4,657 6,220 Controlled in accordance with IFRS.
1 Residual cost includes capitalised interest.
2 Numbers shown on an Investment basis.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2018 149
