Governance and accounts Independent auditors report to the members of 3i Infrastructure plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit forthe year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: and have been properly prepared in accordance with Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We have audited the financial statements of 3i Infrastructure plc the Company and its subsidiary theGroup which comprise: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated statement of changes in equity: the consolidated balance sheet: the consolidated cash flow statement: the reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt: the statement of significant accounting policies: and the related notes 1 to 19.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
While the parent company is not a public interest entity subject to European Regulation 537 2014, the directors have decided that the parent company should follow the same requirements as if that Regulation applied to the parentcompany.
78 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: the valuation of the investments: and the calculation of performance fee.
These key audit matters are consistent with the previous auditors report except as detailed below.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was 17.1 million which was determined on the basis of 1% of the Groups net assets.
In addition to net assets, a lower materiality threshold of 2.0 million based upon 2% of investment income was applied to amounts in the statement of comprehensive income excluding fair value movements on investments and derivatives.
Scoping The Group comprises of 3i Infrastructure plc and its single direct subsidiary, both of which are in full scope for our audit.
Significant changes Last year the previous auditors report included the incomplete or inaccurate recognition of investment income in our approach as a key audit matter which is not included in our report this year.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement on page 77 about whether they We confirm that considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting we have nothing in preparing the financial statements and their identification of any material material to report, uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so over a period of at least add or draw twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
attention to in respect of these We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention matters.
to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were We confirm that and viability consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the we have nothing statement knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups material to report, ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have add or draw anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: attention to in respect of these the disclosures on pages 50-51 that describe the principal risks and explain how matters.
they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 47 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 49 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 79 Governance and accounts Independent auditors report to the members of 3i Infrastructure plc continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the year and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: theoverall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of Investments Key audit matter A key audit matter for the consolidated financial statements is the valuation of the Groups investments description in unquoted companies and unlisted funds at fair value through profit and loss 2018: 1,552.3 million, 2017: 1,815.6 million.
The balance has fallen in the year following the sale of Anglian Water Group and Elenia which completed in February 2018.
Certain assumptions used in the determination of fair value are a key source of estimation uncertainty, which is why we consider there to be a risk of material misstatement as well as a potential fraud risk.
As a liquid market does not exist for a majority of the investments, they are measured using a range of different valuation techniques, with discounted cash flow methodology being the most prevalent technique.
The complex nature of this methodology, combined with the number of significant judgements, means there is a risk that the fair value of the investments could be misstated.
The key judgements have been summarised as: Discount rates the determination of the appropriate discount rate for each investment that is reflective of current market conditions and the specific risks of the investment: Macro-economic assumptions these include inflation and deposit rates: Tax considerations the potential impact of OECD BEPs Action 6 on the overall structure: and Forecasted future cash flows specific investments use certain assumptions in the cash flow forecasts that are particularly complex and judgemental.
This key audit matter is also discussed on page 68 in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee and disclosed in the significant accounting policies as a key source of estimation uncertainty on pages 89 and portfolio valuation methodology on page 109.
How the scope We performed the following procedures with assistance from our valuation experts: of our audit Tested the operating effectiveness of controls around the overall valuation process: responded to the Challenged the Investment Adviser concerning the discount rates applied to investments, and key audit matter benchmarked them to relevant listed comparable peers and transactions: Challenged macro-economic assumptions by reference to observable market data and forecasts: Engaged with tax specialists to assess the potential impact of BEPS Action 6 on the fair value of the investments: Employed audit analytics on the valuation models to assess them for integrity and material formula errors: Reviewed the historical accuracy of the Investment Advisers cash flow forecasts against actual results: and Reviewed and challenged forecasted cash flows, in particular movements since acquisition or the prior year and changes made in underlying forecast models.
Key We concluded that the valuation of investments was not materially misstated.
observations 80 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts Calculation of Performance Fee Key audit matter For the year ended 31 March 2018 the performance fee was 89.8 million 2017: 3.9 million.
description The performance fee has increased due to the realised gain on the sales of Anglian Water Group and Elenia in the year.
The Group earns a performance fee based on 20% of the outperformance of Total Return per Share against an 8% performance hurdle.
There is complexity in the subjective nature of the inputs in the calculation of the performance fee and it is dependent on the financial results of the Group.
Incorrect calculation of the performance fee could result in a material misstatement being recognised in the financial statements.
We have identified a potential fraud risk associated with the calculation of the performance fee due to its susceptibility to bias from the Investment Adviser.
The details of the performance fee arrangement are included within Notes 2 and 18.
The Audit and Risk Committee have highlighted within their report on pages 68-70 their considerations when reviewing the calculation.
How the scope We have performed the following procedures: of our audit Reviewed and challenged the calculation methodology with reference to the Investment Advisory responded to the Agreement between the Investment Adviser and the Group: key audit matter Checked the mechanical accuracy of the calculation: and Agreed the inputs used to the valuation model and to the audited financial statements.
Key We concluded that the calculation of the performance fee during the year was in accordance with the observations Investment Advisory Agreement, appropriately accounted for and disclosed.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality 17.1 million 2017: 17.3 million.
Basis for determining 1% 2017: 1% of net asset value NAV.
materiality Rationale for the We consider NAV to be the key benchmark used by shareholders of the Group in assessing benchmark applied financialperformance.
NAV of Group materiality 1,710.2m 17.1m Audit and Risk Committee NAV reporting threshold 0.8m Group materiality 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 81 Governance and accounts Independent auditors report to the members of 3i Infrastructure plc continued A lower materiality threshold of 2.0 million based upon 2% of investment income has also been used.
This has been applied to all non-fair value movements affecting the comprehensive income for the year.
A lower materiality threshold has been used to obtain sufficient coverage on comprehensive income.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.8 million 2017: 0.8 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
Both 3i Infrastructure plc and its single direct subsidiary are in full scope for the purposes of our audit and all the audit work is performed directly by the Group audit team.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
toreport in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
82 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Governance and accounts Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our We have nothing explanations opinion: toreport in respect received and of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or accounting records proper accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by the shareholders on 6 July 2017 at the Annual General Meeting to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is one year.
Consistency of Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk the audit report Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee Jacqueline Holden, FCA For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognized Auditor London, United Kingdom 10 May 2018 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2018 83
