"Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of 888 Holdings plc Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: 888 Holdings plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ""IFRSs"" as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014, and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation."
We have audited the financial statements of 888 Holdings plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2018.
Balance sheet as at 31 December 2018.
Consolidated income statement for the year then ended.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended.
Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended.
Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended.
Statement of cash flows for the year then ended.
Related notes 1 to 28 to the financial statements, including a summary Related notes 1 to 10 to the financial statements including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing ISAs and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 81 Corporate.
888. com Independent Auditors Report Continued Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 26 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation set out on page 25 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the Directors statement set out on page 36 in the annual report about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the Directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the Directors explanation set out on page 36 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Key audit matters Regulatory and legal risks.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of two components, one being a subsidiary in Israel and the other being the remainder of the Group.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for the entirety of Profit before tax adjusted for exceptional charges, Revenue and Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of US$3.7m which represents 5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional charges.
82 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Understood the Groups process Based on our audit procedures on the Regulatory and legal risks and related controls in respect of Groups accounting conclusions in each Given the industry and jurisdictions in which regulatory and legal risks and the related of its major jurisdictions, we concluded the Group operates, as described in the accounting, and assessed whether the that the provision in respect of potential Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page controls are designed effectively.
historical VAT charge and accruals 25, there is a risk that the Group will operate for amounts payable to regulatory without an appropriate licence, have an Circularised legal confirmations to authorities are appropriate, are on the existing licence adversely affected or be significant legal management experts as conservative side of an acceptable range subject to other regulatory sanctions and at 31 December 2018. and that the disclosures in the financial gaming duties, and in certain jurisdictions statements were appropriate.
Assessed the integrity and expertise of VAT or equivalent taxes.
Judgement is also applied in estimating Inquired of management and the Group's amounts payable to regulatory authorities in legal advisers, HFN and local legal certain jurisdictions.
This gives rise to a risk counsels involved, where appropriate, over the accuracy of accruals and disclosure about any known instances of material of contingent liabilities.
There is also a risk breaches in regulatory or licence that management may influence these compliance that need to be disclosed or significant estimates and judgements in required provisions to be recorded.
order to meet market expectations or bonus targets.
Tested the Groups legal expenses in coordination with the discussions with At 31 December 2018 the Group has Groups legal advisers.
provided US$11.3m 2017: US$47.0m in respect of ongoing legal disputes.
Reviewed the Groups correspondence with regulators and tax authorities.
Following the United Kingdom Gambling Commission UKGC Licence review, Understood managements interpretation management has undertaken significant and application of relevant laws and enhancements and improvements of the regulations as well as analysis of the Groups processes and controls in respect risks in respect of Groups operations in of UK Gambling Regulation compliance, unregulated markets.
particularly in respect of customers selfChallenged the appropriateness of the exclusion and responsible gaming.
Refer to Groups assumptions and estimates in Corporate Responsibility section on page 38. relation to provisions and contingent After reaching settlement with the German liabilities, including provisions for the authorities, during 2018 the Group released UKGC inquiries, with reference to a portion of the German VAT provision correspondence and communication with US$22.4m and a German VAT accrual of the UKGC, historical payments made by US$10.7m.
Refer to the Audit Committee the Group and competitors, emerging Report page 77 : significant accounting industry practice and the period to which policies Note 2 on page 94 : and Note 5 any provision amounts relate, including and Note 27 to the Consolidated Financial with respect to anti-money laundering Statements pages 94 to 128. and responsible gaming in the UK and other markets.
Engaged EY Germany legal specialists to assist us in understanding the risks in respect of online gaming prohibition in Germany.
Assessed appropriateness of disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 83 Corporate.
888. com Independent Auditors Report Continued Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Discussed with management and its With assistance from tax specialists Taxation legal advisers, with support from our tax in each major jurisdiction, We have The Group recognised a taxation charge of experts, how the Group manages and concluded that managements US$13.9 million in 2018 2017: US$6.2 million controls the companies in countries in judgements in relation to the taxation and had income tax receivable of nil 2017: which it operates.
charge, provisions and the related US$1.1 million and payable of US$11.4 million disclosures are appropriate.
Obtained and read the results of the third-party tax studies obtained by the The Group operates in a number of countries, Group and reviewed its correspondence resulting in complexities in the payment of with the relevant tax authorities, in order and accounting for tax, particularly related to to support the tax position of the Group.
Transfer Pricing and Tax Residency.
The Group faces a risk that given the international nature With support from our international tax of its operations, material tax exposures may experts, we understood managements not be appropriately provided or disclosed in interpretation and application of the financial statements.
relevant tax law and challenged the appropriateness of its assumptions and Refer to the Audit Committee Report page estimates in relation to provisions and 77 : significant accounting policies Note contingent liabilities.
2 on page 94 : and Notes 8 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements pages We reviewed the Group Transfer Pricing 109 and 117. policy and permanent establishment risk assessment prepared by management and their legal advisor.
We considered whether the Groups disclosures of its tax estimates and judgements are in accordance with IFRS requirements.
We understood and tested the key We did not identify any differences as Revenue recognition application and manual controls over the part of our testing and considered the The Group recognised revenue of US$540.6 Groups principal gaming systems and accounting for revenue to be appropriate.
then applied IT-based auditing techniques We concluded that the adoption of IFRS to re-perform the reconciliation between The Group makes a number of judgements 15 would not have any impact on the the Groups gaming revenue, cash and in recognising revenue, principally in respect recognition for the Group revenue.
customer accounts for 12 months ended of whether the Group is acting as a principal 31 December 2018. or an agent with its B2B customers and whether certain customer bonuses are treated We also performed the testing of Test as a deduction from revenue or as a cost.
accounts in live gaming environment for Any inappropriate judgements could result each revenue stream to test the interface in a material misstatement of revenue and between gaming servers, production operating expenses.
systems and cash processing system with the Datawarehouse.
There is also a risk that management may override controls to influence the significant We performed detailed substantive judgements in respect of revenue recognition testing on a sample of revenue in order to meet market expectations.
transactions, including validation of bets wins and deposits withdrawals.
Refer to the significant accounting policies Note 2 on page 94 : and Note 3 to the We read the Groups contractual Consolidated Financial Statements page 103. arrangements and observed how they operate in practice to check managements judgement as to whether the Group was operating as a principal or an agent in its B2B contracts with customers, in the context of the guidance in IFRS 15.
We audited other material manual adjustments.
84 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee We challenged the assumptions used by Based on our audit work, including the Impairment of Bingo management, particularly in respect of sensitivities applied, we are satisfied that cash generating units forecast growth rates and discount rates, no impairment exists, however, given The Group has goodwill relating to Bingo B2C and performed sensitivity analysis where the limited headroom for the B2B CGU of US$95.3m and Bingo B2B of US$29.7m, there is limited headroom.
in relation to short-term growth rates arising from the acquisitions Globalcom 2007 and reducing the FX rate, additional and Wink 2009, and intangible assets of We compared the valuations to current disclosures are required in the ARA as US$3.6m 2017: US$3.6m, the majority of trading conditions and revised forecasts.
a reasonable possible change could lead which relates to the Bingo B2C business.
We involved valuation specialists to As revenue and profit from the Bingo segment assess the discount rate.
decreased in 2018, there is a risk that these We validated the appropriateness of assets are not supported by either the future disclosures in the Annual Report and cash flows they are expected to generate Accounts.
or their fair value, resulting in an impairment charge that has not been recognised by management.
We assessed managements accounting Based on our audit work, we were Acquisition of All American and calculation of the acquisition of the satisfied the acquisition of AAPN has Poker Network remaining share in AAPN joint venture.
been correctly accounted for and the The fair valuation of 100% of the AAPN intangible assets have been appropriately business requires judgement regarding the We assessed the integrity and expertise valued.
level of control premium paid for the 53%.
Based on our audit work, including the The identification of intangibles assets We tested the valuation report and sensitivities applied, we are satisfied and their associated fair valuation requires purchase price allocation prepared by that no impairment exists, however judgement.
The goodwill associated with the management, in combination with Duff & a reasonable possible change in the deal must be tested for impairment before Phelps D&P.
assumptions could lead to an impairment.
the end of the period in which the business We ensured that this is reflected and combination occurs.
disclosed correctly in the financial There is a risk that these assets are not statements, specifically under IFRS 3 for supported resulting in an impairment charge the acquisition of AAPN in regards to the that has not been recognised by management.
business combination achieved in stages.
The key judgements in relation to this risk We challenged the assumptions used by relate to the overall potential size of the US management, particularly in respect of market, 888s forecast market share, and the forecast growth rates and discount rates, speed with which the market grows.
The recognition of the US$9.3m gain on We audited the inputs to the calculations acquisition is also similarly dependent on the where possible, including the populations value of AAPN at acquisition which is in turn by state, the New Jersey market history.
dependent on the future assumed cash flows.
We corroborated the market size assumptions, and speed of markets opening with externally available reports, where possible.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 85 Corporate.
888. com Independent Auditors Report Continued An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
The Group operates from a small number of locations and as an online gaming operator the Groups accounting is centrally managed.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, we determined that there were two components, one being a subsidiary in Israel and the other being the remainder of the Group.
We performed an audit of the complete financial information of both of these components full scope.
The components we audited therefore account for the entirety of the Groups revenue, profit before tax and total assets.
This is consistent with our approach in the prior year.
Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
The Israeli subsidiary was subject to a full scope audit by a component team in Israel and the remainder of the Group was audited directly, as a full scope audit, by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team performed the majority of its audit fieldwork in Israel and Gibraltar.
Non-statutory and statutory audit partners visited both locations at the planning, interim and year-end phases of the audit.
During these visits they attended audit planning and closing meetings, the Groups Audit Committee meetings and conducted and reviewed audit work.
For the Israeli subsidiary, in addition to the location visits the Group audit team interacted with the component audit team regularly during the various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers, participated in the component teams planning, including its discussion of fraud and error and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
The allocation of responsibilities between the Group audit team and the Israeli component team was such that the audit work on each of the areas of risk described above was led by the Group audit team.
This gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be US$3.7 million 2017: US$3.4 million, which is 5% 2017: 5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional charges.
We believe that profit before tax, adjusted for the exceptional charges described below, provides us with a consistent year on year basis for determining materiality and is the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the Group.
The increase from the prior year predominately reflects the continued growth achieved by the Group.
Starting basis Profit before tax US$108.7 million 2017: US$18.8 million Exceptional items US$11.1million credit 2017: US$50.8 million charge VAT release US$10.7million 2017: nil Adjustments Gain on re-measurement US$9.3 million Total profit before tax adjusted for exceptional charges US$77.6 million 2017: US$69.6 million Materiality Materiality of US$3.7 million 2017: US$3.4 million, representing 5% of materiality basis 2017: 5% 86 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be US$1.35 million 2017: US$1.0 million, which is 2% 2017: 2% of net assets.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and did not identify significant changes.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2016: 75% of our planning materiality, namely US$2.8 million 2017: US$2.5 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit, low number of misstatements and overall effective internal controls.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the performance materiality allocated to Israeli component was US$1.6 million 2017: US$1.4 million.
The audit work on the remainder of the Group was undertaken using Group materiality.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of US$188,000 2016: US$168,000, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 01 to 36, including Strategic Report, the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance Report set out on pages 42 to 77, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on pages 48 to 49 the statement given by the Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 77 to 80 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 50 the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements and has been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 87 Corporate.
888. com Independent Auditors Report Continued Opinions on other matters as per the terms of our engagement letter with the Company In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or there are material misstatements in the Directors Report based on our knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception as per the terms of our engagement letter with the Company In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters which we have been instructed to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on pages 48 to 49, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the Group and determined that the most significant are those related to Gambling Regulations and related gaming and indirect taxes in different countries where the Group is operating, including the UK, Spain and Germany and other countries, those related to relevant tax compliance regulations in Gibraltar and Israel and related to the financial reporting framework IFRS as adopted by the EU, UK Corporate Governance Code, Gibraltar Companies Act 2014 the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange and the Bribery Act 2010.
We understood how 888 Holdings plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management and the companys legal counsel HFN.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes, discussion with audit committee and any correspondence with regulatory bodies, our audit procedures in respect of Regulatory and legal risk and Taxation significant risks, as described above.
88 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Financial Statements We assessed the susceptibility of the Groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management to understand where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud, including in respect of revenue recognition.
We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts.
Where this risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journal entries.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations, including antimoney laundering.
Our procedures involved audit procedures in respect of Regulatory and legal risk and Taxation significant risks as described above, as well as review of board minutes to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations, review of reporting to the Audit Committee on compliance with regulations and enquires of the management and HFN.
In respect to the Israeli component, any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations were communicated to the Primary team as they arose and were followed up with management by the Primary team.
The Group operates in the gaming industry which is a highly regulated environment.
The non-statutory audit partner has specialised in the betting and gaming sector for many years and has experience of working with both online and physical gaming operators in a variety of regulatory environments.
He reviewed the experience and expertise of the engagement team to ensure that the team had the appropriate competence and capabilities, which included the use of a specialist where appropriate.
The team had discussions during planning and throughout the audit in respect of the evolving gaming regulatory environment and the audit engagement partner provided briefings regarding the UKGC Licence review to the team.
As part of our audit procedures we identified non-compliance with UK Gambling Regulation in respect of customers self-exclusion process and responsible gaming.
We had discussions with management and legal counsel to assess and understand the implications on our audit procedures.
We revised our audit procedures in respect of Regulatory and Legal risk significant risk as described above in Key audit matters section.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 9 May 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and no subsequent financial periods.
We signed an engagement letter on 23 January 2018.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 5 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the parent company and we remain independent of the Group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Cameron Cartmell Angelique Linares Non-Statutory Auditor Statutory Auditor Ernst & Young LLP For and on behalf of EY Limited, Registered Auditors London Gibraltar 12 March 2019 12 March 2019 The maintenance and integrity of the 888 Holdings plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 89
