We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:19 Page 34 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc Opinion In our opinion the financial statements of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc the Company : give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of its return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and the Statement of Recommended Practice issued by the Association of Investment Companies in November 2014 and updated in February 2018 Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Income Statement: Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds: the Balance Sheet: the Cash Flow Statement: and the related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matter that we identified in the current year was: Valuation and ownership of investments Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 11.54m which was determined as 1% of net assets.
Scoping Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Significant changes Last year, revenue recognition was classed as a significant risk.
We have assessed that this is no longer the in our approach case.
Dividend income received by the Company is comprised of a high volume of low value items, with the only judgement required being allocation of special dividends.
Additionally, we have tested all of the dividends received by the Company last year with no exceptions noted.
These facts in combination lead us to conclude that the risk of material misstatement is no longer significant.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement and note 1a to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
34 Governance Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:19 Page 35 Independent Auditors Report Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement continued Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on page 5 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' confirmation on page 5 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on pages 5 and 20 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation and ownership of investments Key audit matter The listed investments held by the company, 1,168m 2017:1,440m are key to its performance and description account for the majority of the total assets, 99.7% at 31 December 2018 2017: 99.7%.
Please see note 1b and note 10.
There is a risk that investments may not be valued correctly or may not represent the property of the Company.
Given the nature and size of the balance and its importance to the entity, we have considered that there is a potential risk of fraud in this area.
This key audit matter is also included in the Report of the Audit Committee within the annual report as a significant audit risk.
How the scope of We have performed the following procedures to test the ownership and valuation of the investment our audit responded portfolio at 31 December 2018: to the key audit critically assessed the design and implementation of the controls over valuation and ownership of matter investments: confirmed the valuation of 100% of the listed investments to an independent pricing source: confirmed 100% of listed investments at the year end to confirmations received directly from Northern Trust custodian and Natwest depository : and reviewed the internal controls report over Northern Trust, as it applied to custody and attended the Audit Committee meeting at which the Northern Trust controls report was evaluated to assess the adequacy of the design and implementation of controls at the custodian.
Key observations Based on the work performed we concluded that the valuation and ownership of investments are appropriate.
Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 35 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:19 Page 36 Independent Auditors Report Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 11.54m 2017: 14.35m Basis of determining 1% 2017: 1% of net assets materiality Rationale for the benchmark Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant applied benchmark for investors and is a key driver of shareholder value.
Net Assets 1,153.7m Materiality 11.54m Audit Commiee repor ng threshold Net Assets 0.23m Materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 230,000 2017: 287,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Company and its environment, including internal control and assessing the risks of material misstatement through quantitative and qualitative factors relating to each account balance, class of transactions and disclosure.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
As part of our risk assessment, we assessed the control environment in place at the Investment Managers and Secretaries to the extent relevant to our audit.
36 Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:19 Page 37 Independent Auditors Report Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon to ensure report in respect of completeness.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 37 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt PRINT 169157 ASCOT AR18 Txt V7 25 01 2019 14:19 Page 38 Independent Auditors Report Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the companys policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of noncompliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: valuation and ownership of listed investments given the nature of the investments, being a key performance indicator and an area of focus to users of the financial statements: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the company operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the company.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included financial reporting including Companies Act 2006 and UK Listing Rules, as well as the Company qualification as an Investment Trust under UK tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified the valuation and ownership of listed investments as the key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management and the audit committee concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
38 Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of these matters.
directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the board of directors on 17 April 2013 to audit the financial statements for the period ending 31 December 2013 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 6 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Chris Hunter CA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Edinburgh, United Kingdom 25 January 2019 a The maintenance and integrity of the Aberforth Partners LLP web site is the responsibility of the partners of Aberforth Partners LLP: the work carried out by the auditor of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 39
