INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Material uncertainty relating to going concern Group and parent company Opinion In forming our opinion on the group financial statements, which is not In our opinion, Acacia Mining plcs group financial statements and parent modified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure made in company financial statements the financial statements : note 2 to the financial statements concerning the groups ability to give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent continue as a going concern.
companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups and the The impact of the mineral concentrate export ban and negotiation with parent companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Government of Tanzania, along with the other matters explained in have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial note 2 to the financial statements, indicate the existence of a material Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the groups ability to have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the continue as a going concern.
The group financial statements do not Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, include the adjustments that would result if the group was unable to Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Explanation of material uncertainty AnnualReport and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: Note 2 to the financial statements details the directors disclosures of the consolidated and parent company income statement and the the material uncertainties relating to going concern.
In addition, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then disclosures included in Note 6 to the financial statements provide further ended: the consolidated and parent company balance sheet as at detail relating to the status and potential impact of the ongoing mineral 31December 2018, the consolidated and parent company statement concentrate export ban and negotiation with the Government of Tanzania of changes in equity, and the consolidated and parent company on the going concern status of the Group and parent company.
statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to In forming their conclusions regarding going concern of the Group and the financial statements, which include a description of the parent company, and as described in Note 2, the directors have significant accounting policies.
considered, but not limited to, the following matters: Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
the impact of the ban on-ongoing operations: Basis for opinion the current cash position: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on the latest mine plans and a range of scenarios around the various Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under options under these circumstances, including the cash flow impact of ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the an extended concentrate export ban: and the potential impacts of the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that timing and final terms of any comprehensive settlement which might be the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to approved by the parent company, including the lifting of the concentrate provide a basis for our opinion.
export ban and staged payments of US$300 million relating to Independence historical tax matters: We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical the short-term gold prices and market expectations for the same requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the medium-term: and in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable Acacia Groups capital expenditure and financing plans.
to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
In addition, the directors have assumed that the Group will not be required to settle its current outstanding borrowing obligations and To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit will repay these in accordance with the current terms of the relevant services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided agreements.
Given the risks associated with the impact of the mineral to the group or the parent company.
concentrate export ban and negotiations with the Government of Other than those disclosed in note 10 to the financial statements, Tanzania, the directors have drawn attention to this in disclosing a we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the parent material uncertainty relating to going concern in the basis of company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. preparation to the Annual Report.
Emphasis of matter Group and parent company Impact of mineral concentrate export ban and negotiation with the Government of Tanzania In forming our opinion on the group financial statements, which is not modified, we draw attention to Notes 2, 6 and 34 to these financial statements, which describe the material uncertainties related to the impact of the mineral concentrate export ban and negotiations with the Government of Tanzania on the Groups and parent companys assets, liabilities and cash flows.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
112 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our audit approach The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Overview assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective Overall group materiality: USD$6.4 million judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates 2017: USD$7.0 million, based on 5% of that involved making assumptions and considering future events that profit before tax, before tax excluding the Materiality are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework Overall parent company materiality: applicable to the group and the industry in which it operates, and USD$6.4million 2017: USD$7.0 million, considered the risk of acts by the group which were contrary to applicable Audit based on the lower of 1% of total assets scope laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at and overall Group materiality.
group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is Key audit higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud matters may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the group and parent company financial statements, including, but not limited to, We identified two mine sites located in the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules and mining licence Tanzania which, in our view, required an compliance within Tanzania.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, audit of their complete financial information.
inquiry of management, consideration of managements external advice We conducted other audit procedures in and review of mining licence documentation.
There are inherent London, South Africa, Tanzania and Kenya.
limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further Taken together, the territories and functions removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events where we performed our audit work accounted and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely for 100% of revenue and approximately 84% we would become aware of it.
of absolute profit before tax i. e. the sum of We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, the numerical values without regard to including fraud in revenue recognition.
As in all of our audits we also whether they were profits or losses for the addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including relevant territories and functions.
testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Impairment assessments of intangible assets directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
and property, plant & equipment Group.
Key audit matters Taxation including provisions for uncertain Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional deferred tax positions and the recoverability judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial of indirect taxes Group.
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
In addition to going concern, described in the Material uncertainty relating to going concern section above, we determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 113 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment assessments of intangible assets and property, We considered managements impairment trigger analysis and agreed plant & equipment Group that impairment indicators existed.
Refer to page 80 Audit Committee report, page 125 principal accounting In assessing the valuation of the CGUs, we evaluated managements policies, page 126 critical accounting estimates and judgements, and future cash flow forecasts for each CGU, and the process by which they note 6. were drawn up, including verifying the mathematical accuracy of the Acacia Mining has indefinite-lived intangible assets of USD$32.8 million cash flow models and agreeing future capital and operating expenditure and property, plant and equipment of USD$761.2 million as at to the latest Board approved budgets and the latest life of mine plans.
31December 2018 primarily contained within the Bulyanhulu, Managements future cash flow forecasts are underpinned by key North Mara, and Buzwagi cash generating units CGUs.
assumptions regarding their current estimation of the timing and form Management determined that the on-going uncertainty surrounding a of a resolution of the export ban.
With regards to the outcome, we have potential resolution of the disputes with the Government of Tanzania, the made inquiries of management and considered publically available optimisation study and updating of the geological and resource models at information from the Government of Tanzania and Barrick Gold.
Whilst Bulyanhulu, and the fact that the Companys market capitalisation has we consider managements best estimate to be consistent with the been lower than its carrying values during the current reporting period, are information made available to them, significant uncertainty remains.
impairment indicators for all CGUs.
Management has therefore performed For each CGU we used our valuation specialists to assist us in impairment assessments for all CGUs, on the underlying assumption that evaluating the appropriateness of key market related assumptions in a negotiated settlement with the Government of Tanzania is the most likely managements valuation models, including both short term and long outcome of the export ban.
term gold prices, and discount rates.
While impairment indicators were noted for all CGUs, the carrying values We assessed the reasonableness of managements future forecasts of the Bulyanhulu, Buzwagi and North Mara CGUs of $588 million, of capital and operating expenses included in the cash flow forecasts $195million and $277 million respectively were supported by their in light of the historical accuracy of such forecasts and the current recoverable value under managements impairment assessment.
determination of recoverable amount was based on the higher of value-in-use and fair value less costs to dispose, which requires We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions within judgement on the part of management in valuing the relevant CGUs.
the cash flow forecasts using a range of discount rates and lower long-term gold prices based on what, in our view, a market participant Recoverable amounts are based on managements understanding of the may apply.
potential outcome of Barrick Golds negotiations with the Government of Tanzania which will also require independent approval from the Acacia With regards to the Bulyanhulu, North Mara and Buzwagi CGUs, Board and Acacia shareholders, and variables such as future commodity managements estimated recoverable amounts supported the carrying prices, the most appropriate discount rate and timing and approval of value of these assets as at 31 December 2018.
Consequently, no future capital and operating expenditure.
impairment charge was considered necessary, although the estimate of recoverable amount remains sensitive to changes in these key assumptions and remain at risk should a negotiated settlement not eventuate or the form of a negotiated settlement is different from managements estimate.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 of the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided with respect to the CGUs.
114 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Taxation including provisions for uncertain deferred tax positions We considered this to be a key audit matter due the magnitude of the and the recoverability of indirect taxes Group balances and the judgements involved.
Refer to page 80 Audit Committee report, page 125 principal accounting We read correspondence between management and the Tanzanian policies, page 126 critical accounting estimates and judgements, and Revenue Authority and assessed managements position in relation note 21. to the specific matters disputed.
Refer to note 34 for tax related The group has material deferred tax balances which include prior year contingencies disclosed.
tax loss assessments that continue to be in dispute with the Tanzanian In relation to deferred tax, we also assessed the availability of Revenue Authority.
estimated future taxable income to utilise recognised carry forward The group has $300m of provisions for uncertain deferred tax positions, losses and the reversal of temporary deferred tax differences by on the basis that it is more probable than not that this amount may be comparing the estimates to the latest Board approved budgets and paid to settle outstanding assessments as part of a boarder negotiated the latest Life of Mine plans current expectations of the timing and settlement with the Government of Tanzania.
This is based on the form of a potential negotiated settlement with the Government of announcements made by Barrick Gold in October 2017 following their Tanzania.
We consider the recognition the $300m provision discussions with the Government of Tanzania and ongoing discussions appropriate, taking into account the current position of negotiations, with Barrick Gold who are leading the negotiations.
however recognise that a material risk continues to exist that the exposure could be higher.
In addition, the group recognises significant indirect tax receivables.
The receivables are classified between current and non-current in line We also determined based on the existence of a memorandum of with the expected offset against future taxable profits.
The effect of settlement with the Tanzanian Revenue Authority for the indirect tax discounting of the non-current portion is immaterial.
receivable, that the balance is recoverable, and appropriately classified between current and non-current.
Based on managements understanding, tax receivables and deferred tax losses remain recoverable.
We examined the Annual Report disclosures to ensure the risk associated with recovery was appropriately highlighted.
Except for the matters described in the Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section, we have determined that there are no other key audit matters in respect of the parent company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The groups assets and operations are primarily located at three mine sites in Tanzania representing the groups three CGUs, with exploration properties in Kenya and West Africa.
Financial reporting processes related to the activities of these mine sites and exploration properties are undertaken at shared business centres SBCs located in Dar es Salaam and Johannesburg.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the three mine sites, the exploration entities and the SBCs by us, as the group engagement team and by component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
We requested that full scope audits were performed at North Mara and Buzwagi which included the relevant SBC.
In addition, we conducted other audit procedures in London, South Africa, Tanzania and Kenya, including specified procedures performed by a component audit team in Tanzania over Bulyunhulu revenue and Kenya over exploration expenses incurred within Acacia Exploration Kenya due to the quantum of costs expensed during the current year.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those sites and SBCs to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the group financial statements as a whole.
Involvement of the group engagement team included attendance at Acacias Tanzanian and South African offices, conference calls and meetings with the Tanzanian audit team, review of the Tanzanian and Kenyan component auditor work papers, attendance at local audit clearance meetings and other forms of communication as considered necessary depending on the significance of the accounting and audit issues arising.
Taken together, the territories and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 100% of revenue and approximately 84% of absolute profit before tax i. e. the sum of the numerical values without regard to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant territories and functions.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 115 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality USD$6.4 million 2017: USD$7.0 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, before tax excluding Lower of 1% of total assets and overall Group materiality.
Rationale for We continued to determine materiality We believe that total assets is the primary measure used in benchmark applied based on 5% of our chosen benchmark.
assessing the performance of the parent company as the function of the parent is to hold investments within the Group.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between USD$1 million and USD$6.4 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above USD$1 million Group audit 2017: USD$1 million and USD$1 million Parent company audit 2017: USD$1 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw ISAs UK require us to report to you when: attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate preparation of the financial statements is not appropriate: or to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial the directors have not disclosed in the financial statements any statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties identified material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about to the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going the companys ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval accounting for a period of at least twelve months from the date when of the financial statements.
the financial statements are authorised for issue.
We draw your attention to the matters described in the Material Uncertainty Related to Going Concern section.
In addition, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
116 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Reporting on other information Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
group and parent company and their environment obtained in the course The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the of the audit.
Listing Rules financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise Other Code Provisions explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility The statement given by the directors, on page 82, that they consider is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or understandable, and provides the information necessary for the our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially members to assess the groups and parent companys position and misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether with our knowledge of the group and parent company obtained in the there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material course of performing our audit.
misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have The section of the Annual Report on page 80 describing the work of the performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken Directors Remuneration in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required Act 2006.
CA06 by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Strategic Report and Directors Report Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for out on page 106, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
CA06 also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for Directors Report.
CA06 assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors or liquidity of the Group either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
The directors confirmation on page 30 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 31 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longerterm viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 117 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ACACIA MINING PLC CONTINUED Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 29 March 2010 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 9years, covering the years ended 31 December 2010 to 31December2018.
JONATHAN LAMBERT SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR FOR AND ON BEHALF OF  LLP CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS AND STATUTORY AUDITORS LONDON 28 MARCH 2019 118 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
