Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Admiral Group Plc REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Admiral Group plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Financial Position: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: the related notes 1 to 13 to the Group financial statements, excluding the capital adequacy disclosures in note 12e calculated in accordance with the Solvency II regime which are marked as unaudited: and the related notes 1 to 12 to the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Admiral Group Plc Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Valuation of gross insurance claims reserves: and Revenue recognition - profit commission income.
The key audit matters identified are the same as the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 20.7 million, which was determined with reference to profit before tax.
Scoping We identified nine reporting components which we determined should be subjected to audits for group reporting purposes this year.
Further specific audit procedures were completed in respect of eight further components which, although not financially significant, did present some specific audit risks which needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our audit procedures account for 96% of the groups profits and losses before tax, 95% of revenue and 94% of the groups net assets.
Significant The main changes in component scoping since 2017 are to subject the groups underwriting division in Spain and the changes in our groups subsidiary Admiral Financial Services Limited AFSL to full scope audits.
approach Whilst the Spanish underwriting division is not considered significant to the group as a whole in 2018, it does represent a significant portion of the groups European underwriting activity and therefore we have determined that treating it in this way is the most appropriate approach.
AFSL includes the groups loans portfolio, which has grown to a size that we consider to represent a significant component of the group in 2018.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they have nothing material considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their to report, add or draw identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a attention to in respect period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the have nothing material knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the to report, add or draw directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required attention to in respect to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 52 to 57 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 52 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 84 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
114 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of gross insurance claims reserves Key audit matter The groups gross insurance claims reserves total 2,740 million 2017 year-end: 2,403 million.
The judgements which description are made by management in determining the total valuation of claims reserves are by far the most significant, in terms of their impact on the groups financial position.
Setting these claims reserves is an inherently subjective exercise and small changes in underlying assumptions such as average frequency or average severity may have a material impact on the overall year end result reported.
We therefore consider that this account balance contains potential fraud risks.
Specifically, our significant areas of focus are managements assumptions underpinning the modelled frequency and severity of large bodily injury claims arising in the UK Car Insurance business.
These particular claims result in higher individual claims reserves and are more judgmental, in terms of the development of the ultimate losses, due to the longer-term nature of the groups exposure compared to property damage claims.
In line with the groups accounting policy, management adds a margin to the actuarial best estimate to arrive at the booked gross claims reserves.
This margin reflects the inherent uncertainty in estimating the ultimate losses on claims, over and above that which can be projected actuarially based on underlying claims development data.
This is a significant area of management judgement and, therefore, a focus of our audit.
Specifically, the consistency of the level of prudence within the margin for the UK Car Insurance reserves, related to large bodily injury claims, is our key area of focus in respect of the margins included.
The uncertainty associated with future changes in the Ogden discount rate is a key area of judgement and effects both the derivation of the best estimate assumptions and the margin required to achieve the desired level of confidence in the booked reserves.
The impact of royal assent to the Civil Liability Bill on the estimate of future rate changes is specifically considered in responding to the areas of focus set out above.
Refer to page 76 in the audit committee report where this is included as a significant issue and note 3 and note 5d in the financial statements which refer to this matter.
How the scope We have assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of relevant controls relating to of our audit the key actuarial assumptions identified and the setting of the reserve margin.
These controls include those concerning responded to the the oversight and challenge of managements external actuarial expert by management and the Audit Committee.
key audit matter We reviewed the reports from managements external expert actuary and involved our own Deloitte actuarial experts to support our challenge of managements assumptions.
We performed procedures to assess the objectivity and competence of managements expert.
We benchmarked managements frequency assumptions against available industry working party data and considered the comparison in the context of the risk profile of Admirals portfolio and the year-on-year changes in these assumptions.
We undertook a graphical analysis of incurred development patterns to assess and challenge managements severity assumptions.
We benchmarked the average cost per claim assumptions against available third party industry data in the context of this incurred development analysis.
We gave specific consideration to the Ogden discount rate assumption selected by management, inspected the evidence to support a change in assumption for 2018 and benchmarked the selected rate against that selected by a range of industry peers.
We challenged managements qualitative and quantitative justifications for the margin held over the actuarial best estimate reserves through review of managements accounting judgement papers and claims distribution model.
We analysed the consistency of prudence within the booked margin against previous reporting periods in the context of the underlying uncertainty in incurred claims development and challenged managements justification for the booked position.
Key observations Based on the procedures described above, we consider that the booked reserves remain appropriate and in line with the groups prudent accounting policy.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Admiral Group Plc Key audit matters continued Revenue recognition profit commission income Key audit matter The auditing standards prescribe that a risk of fraud in revenue recognition should be presumed for all trading groups description and companies.
We therefore performed an assessment of the groups classes of revenue transactions to identify the areas where there was a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
In our view, the UK car insurance profit commission income earned by the group, which, on a consolidated basis, consists of amounts due from the groups co-insurer of 95.1 million 2017: 64.7 million, represents a revenue class for which there is an incentive to fraudulently overstate the amounts recorded.
Accordingly, we have determined that the accuracy of profit commission income due from the groups co-insurance arrangement includes elements which constitute a significant risk of material misstatement for the group financial statements and therefore identified this as a key audit matter.
The risk is particularly acute where there have been changes to the terms of the profit commission arrangements or other one-off adjustments which therefore mean that the calculation to be performed is not uniform across all underwriting years i. e. where the same underwriting result within two different periods could give rise to different levels of profit commissions for each because of variances in the applicable contracted terms.
The accuracy of the calculation in respect of these changes is the specific risk area which we determined represents a significant risk of misstatement.
Refer to page 77 in the audit committee report where this is included as a significant issue, and note 3 and note 5c in the financial statements which refer to this matter.
How the scope We have assessed the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of relevant controls of our audit associated with the accuracy of the calculation.
These controls are designed to ensure that the inputs to the calculation responded to the are accurate and include a review by management to check that any requisite changes have been reflected in the form key audit matter of the detailed calculation.
We have inspected the applicable co-insurance contracts to evaluate the form and content of managements calculation and performed a substantive analytical review to respond to the key audit matter.
We developed an independent expectation of the commission income, based upon our understanding of the contracts and using the loss ratios audited as part of our insurance reserves testing.
We compared our expectation to the amount recorded by management in the context of an appropriate threshold of variance.
Key observations Based on the procedures described above, we consider the profit commission income to be appropriately stated.
116 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 20.7 million 2017: 20.1 million 1.8 million 2017: 3.8 million Basis for determining 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for the movement due 3% of net assets 2017: 3% materiality to the change in the Ogden rate assumption 2017: 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for the We consider profit before tax to be the critical The parent company primarily exists as the holding benchmark applied benchmark of the performance of the group and company which carries investments in group consider this benchmark to be suitable having compared subsidiaries and is the issuer of listed securities.
We to other benchmarks: our materiality equates to 1% of consider that net assets is the critical benchmark for gross earned premium and 3% of equity 2017: 1% of the company.
gross earned premium and 2% of equity.
We adjusted our materiality basis to exclude the impact of the Ogden discount rate change in order to remove year on year volatility.
The actual profit recorded for the year is greater than the profit before tax prior to the release of reserves resulting from the change in Ogden rate assumption, as set out on page 24.
Group materiality 20.7m Component materiality range 0.3m to 14.1m Audit Committee reporting threshold 1m Adjusted PBT 410m Group materiality 20.7m We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Group performance materiality was set at 70% of group materiality for the 2018 audit 2017: 70%.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1 million 2017: 1 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Admiral Group Plc AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The nine financially significant components of the group which were identified in our audit planning are the UK branches of Admiral Insurance Gibraltar Limited, Admiral Insurance Company Limited, EUI Limited and Inspop.
com Limited, the Italian branch of Admiral Insurance Company Limited, the Italian branch of Admiral Insurance Gibraltar Limited, the Spanish branch of Admiral Insurance Company Limited, Admiral Financial Services Limited and the Admiral Group plc parent entity itself.
In 2017, we identified seven of these as significant reporting components.
The changes in component scoping since 2017 are in classifying the groups underwriting division in Spain and the groups subsidiary Admiral Financial Services Limited as significant reporting components.
Each of these components was subjected to a full-scope audit for group reporting purposes, completed to individual component materiality levels which ranged from 0.3 million to 14.1 million 2017: 0.76 million to 13.2 million dependent upon the relative significance of each individual component.
Additionally, we have completed specific audit procedures, designed to address specific audit risks, for eight further components, including Elephant Insurance Company, a subsidiary entity in the USA.
We engaged local component auditors, being Deloitte member firms in the USA, Italy and Spain, to perform the audit work and specified audit procedures in these respective territories on our behalf.
We directed and supervised the work of the component auditors, including through visits to the components and component auditors in Rome, Madrid, Seville and Richmond and remote communication and review of their work.
For the remaining components, which were not subject to audit or specified audit procedures, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-assess our evaluation that there were no significant risks of material misstatement presented by any of these components.
The components within the scope of our audit procedures account for 96% of the groups profits and losses before tax, 95% of revenue and 94% of the groups net assets 2017: 93% of profits and losses before tax, 90% of revenue and 90% of net assets.
Revenue Profit before tax Net assets Full audit scope 86% Full audit scope 93% Full audit scope 81% Specified audit procedures 9% Specified audit procedures 3% Specified audit procedures 13% Review at group level 5% Review at group level 4% Review at group level 6% Profit before tax coverage is stated in absolute terms i. e. based on contribution to group profit less group loss.
118 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included We have nothing to in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Independent Auditors Report continued to the Members of Admiral Group Plc Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit, and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax and IT specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: valuation of gross insurance claims reserves: and revenue recognition profit commission income.
obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, and relevant tax legislation.
In addition, compliance with terms of the groups regulatory solvency requirements were fundamental to the assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified the valuation of gross insurance claims reserves and revenue recognition in respect of profit commission income as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the audit committee and legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC, the Financial Conduct Authority and the Prudential Regulation Authority: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
120 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors report in respect of remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in these matters.
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2016 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2016 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 3 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mark McQueen Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 6 March 2019 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121
