INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AGGREKO PLC 1 Our opinion is unmodi ed We have audited the financial statements of Aggreko Plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Group income statement, Group statement of comprehensive income, Group balance sheet, Group cash ow statement, Group statement of changes in equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in Note 1 and the Company balance sheet, Company statement of comprehensive income, Company statement of changes in equity, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in Note 31.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31December 2018 and of the Groups pro t for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a suf cient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 27 April 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the three financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have ful lled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signi cance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most signi cant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identi ed by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit signi cance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Recoverability of Subjective judgement certain customers of the Our procedures included: Power Solutions Power Solutions Utility business operate in territories Our sector experience: using our sector experience, Utility overdue with volatile regimes and adverse macroeconomic assessing and challenging the Directors receivables and conditions where the risk of customer default the judgement as to the likely recoverable amount of accrued income customer often being the government is high.
the receivables, which includes seeking evidence in respect of In these territories, cash receipts are volatile and of the status of receivables from the latest certain countries unpredictable due to factors such as regime communications with the relevant customer including Yemen, change and economic stress, resulting in signi cant including deposits and guarantees where Venezuela, Brazil, judgement being applied in the Groups assessment available, considering the Groups previous Zimbabwe, Chad, of the recoverability of receivables both trade experience of recovery, considering any nonMozambique, receivables and accrued income from customers corroborating evidence and our knowledge of Angola, Mali in these territories.
in-country exposures: and Benin We note this risk is in relation to certain PSU debtors Tests of details: Assessing post year end debt Refer to page 57 such as Yemen, Venezuela, Brazil, Zimbabwe, Chad, collection by vouching receipts to supporting Audit Committee Mozambique Angola, Mali and Benin those being the documentation and considering evidence of report, page 102 receivables that we consider give rise to our key audit planned payments: and accounting policy matter.
We consider the risk to have increased during and page 114 the year given the 16 million increase in past due Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy financial total PSU debtors highlighted in note 17. of the Groups disclosures about the degree of disclosures estimation involved.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk Risk vs 2017: assessment, we determined that the recoverability Our results of certain Power Solutions Utility overdue receivables We found the carrying value of the trade and accrued income in respect of certain countries receivables and accrued income noted opposite outlined above has a high degree of estimation to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 86 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The risk Our response Consolidated and Subjective judgement provision for tax Our procedures included: parent company contingencies require the Directors to make Our tax expertise: assessing, together with our taxation provisions judgements and estimates in relation to tax risks in own international and local tax specialists, the in relation to the particular in relation to the ongoing dispute in Groups tax position in relation to the ongoing tax ongoing dispute relation to a tax assessment in Bangladesh.
This is assessment in Bangladesh, inspecting relevant in relation to a tax highly judgemental due to the complexities and correspondence with the tax authority and legal assessment in uncertainties of local and international tax legislation.
opinions and analysing and challenging the Bangladesh The matter is in court proceedings and may take judgement about the likely conclusion used Refer to page 57 many years to resolve.
The risk to the financial to determine the tax provision based on our Audit Committee statements is that the eventual resolution of the knowledge and experience of the application report, page 103 matter with the tax authorities is at an amount of the international and local legislation by the accounting policy materially different to the provision held.
relevant authority and courts: and and page 110 The effect of this matter is that, as part of our risk Assessing transparency: assessing the adequacy financial assessment, we determined that the provision in of the Groups disclosures in respect of tax and disclosures relation the ongoing dispute in relation to the uncertain tax positions.
Risk vs 2017: Bangladesh tax assessment has a high degree of Our results estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of outcomes greater than our materiality for the We found the level of tax provisioning in the Group financial statements as a whole, and possibly many and Company to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 9.0 million 2017: 9.8 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of group pro t before tax, of which it represents 4.9% 2017: 5%.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 6.5 million 2017: 7 million based on component materiality.
This is lower than we would otherwise have determined with reference to a benchmark of company net assets, and represents 1.5% 2017: 1.4% of this benchmark.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements identi ed exceeding 450,000, in addition to any other identi ed misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This level was selected and agreed with the Audit Committee as, given the nature and scale of operations, adjustments under this level were not deemed to be of speci c interest to them.
The Group audit team instructed component auditors in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Dubai and Russia as to the signi cant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The group team completed audit work on components in Dubai, the UK and US including the parent company.
The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from 10,000 to 6.5 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk pro le of the Group across the components.
The components not included were not individually nancially signi cant enough to require an audit for group reporting purposes, and did not present speci c individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The Group audit team visited the component location in Dubai to participate in the planning meeting and assess the audit risk and strategy.
Telephone calls were also held with the component auditors in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Dubai and Russia.
On these calls, the audit risks and strategy were discussed, the findings from the audit reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component auditor as relevant.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated below: Revenue Pro t before tax Net Assets Scoped out of our audit 23% 2017: 23% 23% 2017: 5% 25% 2017: 7% Full audit 77% 2017: 77% 77% 2017: 95% 75% 2017: 93% The remaining 23% of total group revenue, 23% of group pro t before tax and 25% of total group assets is represented by a number of reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 7% of any of total group revenue, group pro t before tax or total group assets.
For these components we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no signi cant risks of material misstatement within these.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF AGGREKO PLC CONTINUED Based on this work, we are required to Disclosures of principal risks and 4 We have nothing to report report to you if: longer-term viability on going concern Based on the knowledge we acquired we have anything material to add or The Directors have prepared the during our financial statements audit, draw attention to in relation to the financial statements on the going we have nothing material to add or draw Directors statement in Note 1 to the concern basis as they do not intend to attention to in relation to: Financial statements on the use of the liquidate the Company or the Group or going concern basis of accounting the Directors con rmation within to cease their operations, and as they with no material uncertainties that page 45 that they have carried out a have concluded that the Companys and may cast signi cant doubt over the robust assessment of the principal the Groups financial position means Group and Companys use of that risks facing the Group, including that this is realistic.
They have also basis for a period of at least twelve those that would threaten its business concluded that there are no material months from the date of approval model, future performance, solvency uncertainties that could have cast of the financial statements: or and liquidity: signi cant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least the related statement under the the principal risks and uncertainties a year from the date of approval of Listing Rules set out on page 32 is disclosures describing these risks the financial statements the going materially inconsistent with our and explaining how they are being concern period.
managed and mitigated: and Our responsibility is to conclude on We have nothing to report in these the Directors explanation in the the appropriateness of the Directors respects, and we did not identify going assessment of prospects and viability conclusions and, had there been a concern as a key audit matter.
statement of how they have assessed material uncertainty related to going the prospects of the Group, over what concern, to make reference to that in period they have done so and why 5 We have nothing to report this audit report.
However, as we cannot they considered that period to be on the other information in predict all future events or conditions appropriate, and their statement as and as subsequent events may result in the Annual Report to whether they have a reasonable outcomes that are inconsistent with expectation that the Group will be The Directors are responsible for the judgements that were reasonable at the able to continue in operation and other information presented in the time they were made, the absence of meet its liabilities as they fall due Annual Report together with the reference to a material uncertainty in over the period of their assessment, financial statements.
Our opinion on this auditor's report is not a guarantee including any related disclosures the financial statements does not cover that the Group and the Company will drawing attention to any necessary the other information and, accordingly, continue in operation.
we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any In our evaluation of the Directors Under the Listing Rules we are required form of assurance conclusion thereon.
conclusions, we considered the inherent to review the assessment of prospects risks to the Groups and Companys and viability statement.
We have nothing Our responsibility is to read the other business model and analysed how to report in this respect.
information and, in doing so, consider those risks might affect the Groups whether, based on our financial Our work is limited to assessing these and Companys financial resources or statements audit work, the information matters in the context of only the ability to continue operations over the therein is materially misstated or knowledge acquired during our financial going concern period.
The risks that we inconsistent with the financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict considered most likely to adversely affect statements or our audit knowledge.
all future events or conditions and as the Groups and Companys available Based solely on that work we have not subsequent events may result in financial resources over this period were: identi ed material misstatements in the outcomes that are inconsistent with other information.
Global macroeconomic uncertainty judgments that were reasonable at the resulting in reduced demand: and time they were made, the absence of Strategic Report and Directors Report anything to report on these statements Based solely on our work on the other Market dynamics in the Power is not a guarantee as to the Groups and information: Solutions Utility business impacting Companys longer-term viability.
we have not identi ed material Corporate governance disclosures misstatements in the Strategic Report As these were risks that could potentially We are required to report to you if: and the Directors Report: cast signi cant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, we have identi ed material in our opinion the information given we considered sensitivities over the level inconsistencies between the in those reports for the financial year of available financial resources indicated knowledge we acquired during our is consistent with the financial by the Companys financial forecasts financial statements audit and the statements: and taking account of reasonably possible directors statement that they consider in our opinion those reports have but not unrealistic adverse effects that that the annual report and financial been prepared in accordance with could arise from these risks individually statements taken as a whole is fair, the Companies Act 2006. and collectively and evaluated the balanced and understandable and achievability of the actions the Directors provides the information necessary Directors Remuneration Report consider they would take to improve for shareholders to assess the Groups In our opinion the part of the Directors the position should the risks materialise.
position and performance, business Remuneration Report to be audited has We also considered less predictable but model and strategy: or been properly prepared in accordance realistic second order impacts, such as with the Companies Act 2006. the section of the Annual Report the impact of Brexit on customs delays describing the work of the Audit impacting on the Groups ability to meet Committee does not appropriately demand in certain areas.
address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 88 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We are required to report to you if a high level of assurance, but does not Owing to the inherent limitations of the Corporate Governance Statement guarantee that an audit conducted in an audit, there is an unavoidable risk does not properly disclose a departure accordance with ISAs UK will always that we may not have detected some from the eleven provisions of the UK detect a material misstatement when material misstatements in the financial Corporate Governance Code speci ed it exists.
Misstatements can arise from statements, even though we have by the Listing Rules for our review.
fraud, other irregularities or error and properly planned and performed our are considered material if, individually audit in accordance with auditing We have nothing to report in these or in aggregate, they could reasonably standards.
For example, the further respects.
be expected to in uence the economic removed non-compliance with laws and decisions of users taken on the basis of regulations irregularities is from the 6 We have nothing to report the financial statements.
events and transactions re ected in the on the other matters on which financial statements, the less likely the A fuller description of our responsibilities inherently limited procedures required we are required to report by is provided on the FRCs website at by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there Under the Companies Act 2006, we are Irregularities ability to detect remained a higher risk of non-detection required to report to you if, in our We identi ed areas of laws and of irregularities, as these may involve opinion: regulations that could reasonably be collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, expected to have a material effect on the misrepresentations, or the override of adequate accounting records have not financial statements from our general internal controls.
We are not responsible been kept by the parent Company, or commercial and sector experience and for preventing non-compliance and returns adequate for our audit have through discussion with the directors cannot be expected to detect nonnot been received from branches not and other management as required by compliance with all laws and regulations.
visited by us: or auditing standards, and discussed with the parent Company financial the Directors and other management 8 The purpose of our audit statements and the part of the the policies and procedures regarding work and to whom we owe Directors Remuneration Report to be compliance with laws and regulations.
audited are not in agreement with the our responsibilities We communicated identi ed laws and accounting records and returns: or regulations throughout our team and This report is made solely to the remained alert to any indications of Companys members, as a body, in certain disclosures of Directors non-compliance throughout the audit.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of remuneration speci ed by law are This included communication from the the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work not made: or Group to component audit teams of has been undertaken so that we might we have not received all the relevant laws and regulations identi ed state to the Companys members those information and explanations we at group level.
matters we are required to state to them require for our audit.
in an auditors report and for no other The potential effect of these laws and purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted We have nothing to report in these regulations on the financial statements by law, we do not accept or assume respects.
responsibility to anyone other than Firstly, the Group is subject to laws the Company and the Companys 7 Respective responsibilities and regulations that directly affect the members, as a body, for our audit work, Directors responsibilities financial statements including financial for this report, or for the opinions we As explained more fully in their reporting legislation including related have formed.
statement set out on page 85, the companies legislation, distributable Directors are responsible for: the pro ts legislation and taxation preparation of the financial statements legislation and we assessed the extent John Luke Senior Statutory Auditor including being satis ed that they of compliance with these laws and for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, give a true and fair view: such internal regulations as part of our procedures on Statutory Auditor control as they determine is necessary the related financial statement items.
Chartered Accountants to enable the preparation of financial Secondly, the Group is subject to many 319 St Vincent Street statements that are free from material other laws and regulations where the Glasgow G2 5AS misstatement, whether due to fraud or consequences of non-compliance could error: assessing the Group and parent 6 March 2019 have a material effect on amounts or Companys ability to continue as a disclosures in the financial statements, going concern, disclosing, as applicable, for instance through the imposition of matters related to going concern: fines or litigation.
We identi ed antiand using the going concern basis of bribery as the area most likely to have accounting unless they either intend such an effect, recognising the nature to liquidate the Group or the parent of the Groups activities and the Company or to cease operations, or have Governmental nature of many of the no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditing standards Auditors responsibilities limit the required audit procedures to Our objectives are to obtain reasonable identify non-compliance with these assurance about whether the financial laws and regulations to enquiry of statements as a whole are free from the Directors and other management material misstatement, whether due to and inspection of regulatory and legal fraud or other irregularities see below, correspondence, if any.
These limited or error, and to issue our opinion in an procedures did not identify actual or auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is suspected non-compliance.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89
