Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 27 January 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. the parent company and its subsidiaries the group which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated cash flow statement: and the related Notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Completeness and accuracy for brand support discounts and cost accruals: and Valuation of pension scheme liabilities.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 2.15 million which was determined on the basis of 5 per cent of profit before tax and exceptional items.
Scoping Our audit covered 100% of the Groups total revenue, profit before tax and total assets.
78 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the directors statement in Note 30 to the financial statements about whether they nothing material to report, considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their add or draw attention to in identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so respect of these matters.
over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent nothing material to report, with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the add or draw attention to in evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going respect of these matters.
concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 34 to 37 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 37 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 37 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. continued Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Completeness and accuracy of brand support discounts and cost accruals Key audit matter Brand support discounts and cost accrual, 13.9m 2017: 14.7m and total customer investment description spend discounts and costs of 51.3m 2017: 49.4m.
The Group incurs significant costs in agreeing sales discounts to support and develop its brands.
Judgement is required in determining the level of closing accrual for such sales discounts and costs where promotions and brand support campaigns span the year end and where settlement has not been fully agreed at year end, or where prior year claims arise, as the year end accrual can depend on information not yet made available by the customer.
Due to the high level of judgements involved, we have determined there is a potential for fraud through possible manipulation of this balance.
The Groups accounting policy is included in Note 1, where this is also included as a key source of estimation uncertainty.
Brand support discounts and cost accruals are noted within Note 21.
The Audit Committees consideration in respect of the risk is included on page 46.
How the scope of our The audit procedures we performed in respect of this matter included: audit responded to Assessment of the Groups automated and manual controls surrounding the authorisation of such the key audit matter discounts and the judgements applied at year end: Review of a sample of key commercial contracts and joint business plans, to assess whether the composition of the accrual is in line with the underlying commercial agreement: Challenged the year end judgements by agreeing a sample of post year end settlements or through recalculation of amounts in line with relevant commercial contracts or joint business plans where these were in place and forecast sales outturns: Challenged the year end judgements by assessing the inputs to the accrual calculation: and Held discussions with relevant commercial teams to confirm our understanding of the relevant trade terms and to corroborate the completeness of relevant trade terms.
Key observations Overall we find the balance to be reasonable.
80 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Valuation of pension scheme liabilities Key audit matter Defined benefit obligation deficit recognised in the statement of financial position 15.2m description 2017: 27.4m.
The Group provides post-retirement benefits, including defined benefit pensions to employees.
The valuation of gross liabilities, as disclosed in Note 1, is materially sensitive to the underlying assumptions adopted for example, discount rates, inflation rates, mortality assumptions.
Management exercise significant judgement when determining those assumptions, particularly in the discount rate and inflation rate.
Additional disclosures on the assumptions used in valuing the schemes are included within Note 26 of the financial statements, which includes details of the principal assumptions used, as well as the key movements in the assets and obligations of the scheme.
How the scope of our The audit procedures we performed in respect of this matter included: audit responded to Assessment of the design and implementation of the controls surrounding the assumptions: the key audit matter Testing the estimates determined by management and its external actuary and challenged the appropriateness of the key assumptions used in the valuation of the schemes liabilities by assessing these against benchmarked rates and involving our actuarial specialists to review these rates: Comparing assumptions used to the Groups historical experience and to market practice: and Testing the completeness and accuracy of the information provided to the Groups actuarial specialists.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 2.15m 1.935m Basis for determining 5% of profit before tax and exceptional items.
1% of revenue, capped at 90% of Group materiality.
materiality Rationale for the We have used profit before tax and exceptional items We have used revenue as the benchmark for our benchmark applied as the benchmark for our determination of materiality determination of materiality as we consider this to as we consider this to be a critical performance measure be the key driver of the business.
for the Group on the basis that it is a key metric to analysts and investors and has substantial prominence As statutory materiality would be higher than component in the Annual Report.
materiality, we have capped materiality to be 90% of group materiality being 1.935m.
90% is deemed to be appropriate based on the company only contribution to the Group.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. continued Our application of materiality continued Group materiality 2.15m 1.935m Component materiality range PBT and exceptional 2.2m 0.75m to 1.935m 5% items 44.1m 0.75m Audit Committee 41.9m reporting threshold 0.107m Group materiality PBT before exceptional items We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 107,000 for the group, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment through discussions with finance, IT, commercial and supply teams and performing walkthroughs of processes across these areas, including Group wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at a Group level.
The significant component to the Group is A. G. BARR p. l. c. which is also the entity in which the trading transactions relating to the brand owned by Rubicon Drinks Limited flows through.
This component was subject to a full scope audit performed by the Group audit team.
Our audit work on this component was executed at levels of materiality applicable to the entity which were lower than Group materiality at 1.935m.
Components subject to a full audit represent 94% of the Groups revenue, 98% of the Groups net assets and 94% of the Groups profit before tax.
The non-significant components to the Group are as follows: Funkin Limited Funkin USA Limited A. G. BARR General Partners Limited A. G. BARR Capital Partners Limited These components were subject to specified procedures performed by the Group audit team.
Our audit work on these components was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality at 0.75m.
At the parent entity level, we also tested the consolidation process.
82 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the We have nothing to report in information included in the annual report including the strategic report, corporate governance respect of these matters.
report, directors report, audit committee report and directors remuneration report, directors responsibilities statement, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. continued Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or in respect of these matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures We have nothing to report of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report in respect of these matters.
to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the company at the Annual General Meeting on 31 May 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 27 January 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 1 year, covering the year ending 27 January 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
David Sweeney CA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Glasgow, United Kingdom 27 March 2018 84 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018
