I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALLIANCE TRUST PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion the financial statements of Alliance Trust PLC the company : give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the income statement: the statement of comprehensive income: the balance sheet: the statement of changes in equity: the cash flow statement: and the related notes 1 to 26.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matter that we identified in the current year was Valuation and ownership of listed equity investments and other equity and fund investments.
In the audit for the year ended 31 December 2017 valuation of unlisted investments, including subsidiaries, was considered a key audit matter given the degree of judgement over the valuations and the size of the balance.
The company has agreed to sell its material subsidiary, Alliance Trust Savings, therefore the level of judgement involved is significantly reduced and this has not been considered as a key audit matter for this years audit.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 24.1m which was determined on the basis of 1% of net asset value.
Scoping Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
The financial reporting process is outsourced to Willis Towers Watson the Manager, who have delegated certain accounting responsibilities to The Bank of New York Mellon.
As part of our audit we assessed the key controls in place at the Manager and The Bank of New York Mellon.
Significant changes In prior years we have challenged the Directors judgements underpinning the valuation of in our approach Alliance Trust Savings.
Following the agreement to sell Alliance Trust Savings as described above, this is no longer considered a key audit matter.
Our audit work this year involves a review of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, including the treatment of post completion adjustments.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 59 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALLIANCE TRUST PLC CONTINUED CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We confirm that we We have reviewed the directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements about whether they have nothing material considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their to report, add or draw identification of any material uncertainties to the companys ability to continue to do so over a period attention to in respect of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the company, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the have nothing material knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of to report, add or draw the directors assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state attention to in respect whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 32 to 34 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 58 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 51 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the company, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the company required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter valuation and ownership of listed equity investments and other equity and fund investments Key audit matter Listed equity investments 2,515m 2017: 2,573m and other equity and fund investments 5.9m 2017: description 129m represent the most significant number on the balance sheet and are the main driver of the companys performance.
The combined total of 2,520m 2017: 2,702m represented 94.1% of total assets of the company at 31 December 2018 2017: 90.7% see notes 2 and 9.
There is a risk that the prices recorded in respect of the listed investments held by the company may not be reflective of fair value.
This has been deemed a fraud risk given the possibility of manipulation of the net asset value of the company through investment valuations.
There is also a risk over the recording and custody of listed investments and whether listed investments recorded are indeed the property of the company.
| 60 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV Key audit matter valuation and ownership of listed equity investments and other equity and fund investments continued How the scope of our We have: audit responded to assessed the design and implementation controls over valuation and existence of listed investments: the key audit matter reviewed Controls Reports relating to Custody and Investment Accounting provided by Bank of New York Mellon as Custodian and Fund Accountant: agreed 100% of the companys quoted investment portfolio at the year end to confirmations received directly from the custodian Bank of New York Mellon and depositary NatWest : agreed 100% of the bid prices of quoted investments on the investment ledger at year end to closing bid prices published by an independent pricing source: and tested the recording of a sample of purchases and sales of quoted investments by agreeing the transactions to supporting documentation and tracing the cash movements to bank statements.
Key observations No misstatements were identified which required reporting to those charged with governance in regards to the valuation of the listed investments.
We did not identify any differences when agreeing the companys investment portfolio to the confirmation received directly from the depositary.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality 24.1m 2017: 26.9m Basis for determining We determined materiality as 1% 2017: 1% of net asset value.
materiality Rationale for the Net assets has been chosen as a benchmark as it is considered the most relevant benchmark benchmark applied for investors and is a key driver of shareholder value.
NAV NAV 2,411m Materiality 24m Materiality Audit Committee reporting threshold 482k We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 482,000 2017: 539,900, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
As part of our audit we assessed the controls in place at the Manager who prepares the financial statements of the company and also the key controls in place at The Bank of New York Mellon Fund Accounting who maintain the underlying accounting records for investment transactions and related balances.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 61 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALLIANCE TRUST PLC CONTINUED OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing to included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
| 62 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I II DIRECTORS REPORT III IV EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management and the Audit and Risk Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the companys policies and procedures relating to: - identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: - detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: - the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team and involving relevant internal specialists, including valuations specialists, regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the valuation of investments due to the potential for the manipulation of the net asset value through manipulation of the investment balance: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the company operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the company.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, UK Companies Act, Listing Rules and tax legislation.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified the valuation and ownership of listed equity investments and other equity and fund investments as a key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit and Risk Committee and external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing correspondence with HMRC and the FCA: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Our work over the identified fraud risk, valuation of investments, has been documented in the key audit matters section of this report.
| Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 63 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ALLIANCE TRUST PLC CONTINUED REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of these matters.
directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee now Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 20 May 2011 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2011 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 8 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2011 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Andrew Partridge Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Edinburgh, United Kingdom 28 February 2019 | 64 Alliance Trust PLC Annual Report and Financial Accounts 2018 I II III FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IV FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
