FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT  REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viabilitystatement Opinion Going concern In our opinion: We have reviewed the directors statement in note 38 to the financial the financial statements of Anglo American plc the Parent Company and statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going its subsidiaries together the Group give a true and fair view of the state of concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Company, its European Union: business model and related risks, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in Framework: and relation to their going concern assessment.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge We have audited the financial statements which comprise: obtained in the audit.
the Consolidated income statement: We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income: attention to in respect of these matters.
the Consolidated balance sheet: Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether the Consolidated cash flow statement: they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity: including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment the accounting policies: of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern including where relevant the impact of Brexit, we are required to state the related notes 1 to 38: and whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Balance sheet of the Parent Company and related information.
the disclosures on pages 43-47 that describe the principal risks and explain The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of how they are being managed or mitigated: the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the the directors confirmation on page 43 that they have carried out a robust European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is applicable law would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced liquidity: or Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the directors explanation on page 43 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they Basis for opinion consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial theprospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these attention to in respect of these matters.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
Key audit matters We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: theallocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our assessment of the Groups key audit matters is consistent with 2017 except for Special items and remeasurements, which has been refined to focus on accounting for and presentation of special items and corporate transactions being the key judgement.
128 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Impairment Refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 92-99 and the disclosures in notes 7 and 8 on pages 144-147.
Key audit matter As a consequence of continued volatility in commodity prices as well as licencing and operational developments during the year, description the assessment of the recoverable amount of operating assets and development projects remains a key judgement and a source of estimation uncertainty.
Management assessed whether indicators of impairment or impairment reversal exist for assets in accordance with IAS36 Impairment of Assets.
During the year, such indicators were identified at Moranbah-Grosvenor and Capcoal in Australia where impairment reversals of $0.9 billion and $0.3 billion have been recorded, primarily due to the improved long-term metallurgical coal price as well as the continued improvements in the operational performance of the mine at Moranbah-Grosvenor and increased forecast production in the updated life of mine plan at Capcoal.
Other such indicators have been identified at other specific assets including Minas-Rio in Brazil, which experienced a production stoppage during the year leading to an indicator of impairment, and the manganese operations where there was an increase in the forecast long-term commodity price resulting in an indicator of impairment reversal.
Where such indicators were identified management has prepared valuation models used to determine the value in use or fair value less costs of disposal of the relevant asset.
How the scope of our We reviewed managements assessment as to whether indicators of impairment or impairment reversal exist.
Where relevant we audit responded have obtained copies of the valuation models prepared by management.
to the key audit matter We challenged the assumptions made by management in relation to these models, including the discount rate used, the commodity prices, capital expenditure and operating cost forecasts, forecast tax cash flows and the expected production profiles, by comparison to recent analyst forecast commodity price and foreign exchange data, reference to third party documentation where available, utilisation of Deloitte valuation and tax specialists, consultation with operational management and consideration of sensitivity analyses.
Deloitte specialists were also used to challenge the structural integrity of the models prepared.
We reviewed whether the life of mine plans in the impairment assessment are based on the most up-to-date Ore Reserve and Mineral Resource reports prepared by managements experts.
We evaluated the consistency of the key assumptions used in the preparation of those reports with the assumptions used in the valuation models and assessed the competence, experience and objectivity of managements experts.
We assessed whether the assumptions had been determined and applied on a consistent basis, where relevant, across the Group.
Key observations We found that the assumptions used were reasonable and had been determined and applied on a consistent basis, where relevant, across the Group.
No additional impairments or impairment reversals were identified from the work performed.
We found that the impairment reversals recorded at the Moranbah-Grosvenor and Capcoal mines in Australia were appropriate.
We also concluded that no impairment or impairment reversal was required at either Minas-Rio or Samancor.
Taxation Refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 92-99 and the disclosures in notes 5 and 16 on pages 142-143 and 153-154 respectively.
Key audit matter The recognition and measurement of certain of the Groups deferred tax assets and liabilities requires management judgement description and is a key area of audit effort due to the complexity of tax regulations across the jurisdictions where the Group operates.
At 31 December 2018, the deferred tax assets recognised by the Group totalled $910 million with the most significant asset related to Minas-Rio.
Management has performed an assessment of the forecast taxable profits against which the Groups tax losses and other tax attributes can be offset in future periods.
The deferred tax liabilities recognised across the Group at 31 December 2018 were $3.7 billion.
We note particular focus on the fide-recognition of a $285 million liability previously recorded in Chile consequent to the decision to use historical Chilean profits tofund the development of Quellaveco.
How the scope of our Through the close involvement of our tax specialist teams at both a Group and business unit level we assessed the appropriateness audit responded and measurement of the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group through discussions with the Groups taxation to the key audit matter department and review of supporting documentation and calculations.
In relation to assessing the recoverability of deferred tax assets, we reviewed and challenged the basis and underlying assumptions in the supporting taxable profit forecasts in order to assess the appropriateness of the assets recognised.
In particular, we challenged managements assessment that, in measuring the Minas-Rio deferred tax asset, taxable profit forecasts considered probable should be time limited by reference to the criteria set out in IAS 12 Income taxes.
In relation to deferred tax liabilities recognised across the Group, we reviewed the relevant deferred tax calculations and challenged managements underlying assumptions.
Key observations We are satisfied that deferred tax assets and liabilities are properly recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 129 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT  Accounting for and presentation of special items and corporate asset transactions Refer to the Audit Committee report on pages 92-99 and the disclosures in note 8 on pages 146-147.
Key audit matter The appropriate accounting treatment of corporate asset transactions is a key area of audit focus specifically in respect of description assessing the point at which control is transferred from the seller to the buyer and the calculation of any profit or loss on disposal.
In 2018 this includes the sale of the Eskom-tied domestic coal operations in South Africa gain of $84 million, the Drayton coal mine in Australia gain of $34 million, the Union platinum mine in South Africa loss of $71 million and the sale of the Groups 33%shareholding in Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine an impairment charge of $85 million was recognised prior to the completion of disposal.
The assessment of the appropriateness of items disclosed within Special items and remeasurements, which includes profits or losses on disposals as well as impairments, impairment reversals, adjustments related to former operations and financing special items and remeasurements as further defined in note 8 to the financial statements, is a key judgement because of their impact upon the reporting of the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group, and has therefore been identified as an area where potential fraud could occur.
As part of this assessment, management considers the guidance from the European Securities and Market Authority ESMA in making this assessment.
How the scope of our For each sales transaction that has completed, we reviewed the sale and purchase agreement to verify whether control has been audit responded appropriately transferred, and recalculated the profit or loss recorded on disposal.
We considered whether any disposal required to the key audit matter separate disclosure as a discontinued operation.
In the context of our review of the overall income statement we considered and challenged each item disclosed within Special items and remeasurements with reference to the guidance from ESMA.
We determined whether such categorisation is appropriate and consistent with the Groups stated policy and past practice for recognition of such items, and whether, taken as a whole, the income statement is fair and balanced in its presentation.
Key observations We are satisfied that the asset disposals that completed in 2018 have been accounted for correctly in line with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, with appropriate disclosures properly made.
We are satisfied that all items included within Special items and remeasurements, including any profit or loss on disposals, display no indication of management bias in the categorisation and that where relevant the categorisation was consistent with prior practice.
We consider that the related disclosures are also appropriate.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of ourwork.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Materiality Group $200 million 2017: $200 million Parent Company $76 million 2017: $76 million Basis for determining Group materiality We have considered both asset and profit bases in the determination of materiality.
$200 million equates to 0.7% 2017: 0.7% ofnet assets and 4.2% 2017: 5.8% of normalised three-year pre-tax profit before special items and remeasurements.
The use of a combination of bases is consistent with our approach in 2017.
Parent Company The Parent Company materiality represents below 1% 2017: below 1% of shareholders equity.
When determining this materiality, we also considered the appropriateness of this materiality for the consolidation of this set of financial statements to the Groups results.
Rationale for the Group benchmark applied Given the continued volatility in commodity prices and the cyclical nature of the mining industry we believe that incorporating balance sheet metrics in our assessment in addition to pre-tax profit before special items and remeasurements is a more appropriate approach asitreflects the capital invested, the changes in production, the volume of commodities sold and the scale ofthe Groups operations.
Parent Company Due to the Parent Companys primary role as a holding company, owning investments in other Group entities, shareholders equity is the key metric driving shareholder value.
As such, we considered shareholders equity the most appropriate benchmark to determine the Parent Company materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $10 million 2017: $10 million for the Group as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
130 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Financial statements An overview of the scope of our audit Other information Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group, the Parent The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information Company and their environment, including internal control, and assessing the comprises the information included in the Annual Report other than the risks of material misstatement.
financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
All business units were subject to a full scope audit with the exception of Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information Nickel and Manganese where specific procedures were performed, which is and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not consistent with our 2017 audit approach.
Our approach continues to focus on express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
the key audit matters identified within those business units and to perform In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility appropriate procedures on the rest of those business units financial istoread the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information, noting their financial significance in the context of the Group as information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our awhole.
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially The work performed by the component audit teams at each business unit misstated.
isguided by the Group audit team and is executed at levels of materiality If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material materialityand ranged from $80 million to $110 million 2017: $90 million misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the to$110million.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that Additionally for all in-scope components, the Group audit team was involved there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to in the audit work performed by component auditors through a combination of report that fact.
global planning issues meetings, the provision of referral instructions, review In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as and challenge of related component inter-office reporting and of findings uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where from their work which included the audit procedures performed to respond we conclude that: to risks of material misstatement, attendance at component audit closing Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors conference calls and regular interaction on any related audit and accounting that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a matters which arose.
whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information The Senior Statutory Auditor and or a senior member of the Group audit team necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and visits the principal location of each significant business unit at least once performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with every year and key operational assets on a rotating basis.
our knowledge obtained in the audit: or The Parent Company is located in the United Kingdom and audited directly by Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit the Group audit team.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Group revenue Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance % Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Full audit scope 94 Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate specified audit procedures 6 Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Underlying EBIT We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
% Full audit scope 89 Responsibilities of directors specified audit procedures 11 As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal Net assets control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of % financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to Full audit scope 96 fraud or error.
specified audit procedures 4 In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 131 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT  Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Audit response to risks identified Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the As a result of performing the above, we identified the accounting for and financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether presentation of special items and corporate asset transactions and due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
impairment as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material we performed in response to those key audit matters.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could the following: reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting on the basis of these financial statements.
documentation to assess compliance with the relevant laws and regulations Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting discussed above: irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house legal counsel A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: statements, which forms part of our auditors report, is located on the FRCs performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected website at: www.
relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, and EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD relevant regulatory authorities: We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit reviewing sales transactions recorded close to the year end to supporting procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that documentation to assess whether these were recognised in the appropriate is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
period: challenging the appropriateness of judgements around the capitalisation of Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities costs related to capital projects in line with IAS 16 Property, Plant and In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of Equipment: and irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, enquiring of management, internal audit, legal counsel, technical specialists testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments, and the Audit Committee, including obtaining and reviewing relevant assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: are indicative of a potential bias, and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and ofbusiness.
whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 valuations, pensions, IT, regarding how and where fraud might occur in the In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. discussion, we identified potential for fraud in assessing the In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: appropriateness of items disclosed in Special items and remeasurements given their impact upon the financial performance, accounting for and the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the presentation of special items and corporate asset transactions, and the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent carrying value of operating assets and development projects, impairment with the financial statements: and and the capitalisation of costs related to capital projects due to the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in management judgements involved.
The fraud risk within revenue accordance with applicable legal requirements.
recognition was identified around cut-off: and In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the the directors report.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pension legislation and tax legislation.
In addition, compliance with terms of the Groups operating licences and environmental regulations were important to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
132 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, orreturns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of this matter.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, Deloitte and Touche were appointed by the shareholders on 24 May 1999 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 1999 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 19 years, covering the years ended 31December 1999 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Kari Hale, ACA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, UK 20 February 2019 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 133
