INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE BASIS FOR OPINION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities OPINION under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities In our opinion: for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Antofagasta plc's Group financial statements and Parent Company provide a basis for our opinion.
financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the Parent Company's affairs INDEPENDENCE as at 31 December 2018 and of the Group's profit and cash flows for We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical the year then ended: requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical as adopted by the European Union: responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
The Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable to the Group or the Parent Company.
law : and Other than those disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements, The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated and Parent Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated cash flow statement, and the consolidated and Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH MATERIALITY OVERVIEW Overall Group materiality: $64 million 2017: $49 million, based on 5% of three-year average profit before tax adjusted for one off items.
Overall Parent Company materiality: $14.5 million 2017: $18.5 million, based on 1% of Total Assets.
AUDIT SCOPE MATERIALITY We identified the four mine sites, Los Pelambres, Centinela, Antucoya and Zaldvar, which in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information.
Taken together, the locations and functions where we performed our audit work accounted for 96% AREAS OF of revenue and 86% of absolute adjusted profit before tax i. e. the sum of the numerical values without AUDIT SCOPE FOCUS regard to whether they were profits or losses for the relevant locations and functions.
Impairment assessments at Antucoya and Centinela.
AREAS OF FOCUS 142 142 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed in their significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
impairment assessments at Antucoya and Centinela: Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries CAPABILITY OF THE AUDIT IN DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, posted with unusual account combinations INCLUDING FRAUD There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, breaches of safety and environmental regulations and unethical and the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not prohibited business practices.
We considered the extent to which nondetecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006 misrepresentations, or through collusion.
CA06, and the UK Listing Rules.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements KEY AUDIT MATTERS including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial revenue or reduce expenditure, and management bias in accounting statements of the current period and include the most significant estimates.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and included: any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, Discussions with management, internal audit and the Groups legal were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements advisors, including consideration of known or suspected instances as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks Evaluation of managements controls designed to prevent and identified by our audit.
detect irregularities, in particular their anti-bribery controls: Assessment of matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline and the results of managements investigation of such matters: Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We considered the Directors impairment indicator analysis and Impairment assessments at Antucoya and Centinela agree that no impairment or reversal indicators existed as at In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets the Directors are 31 December 2018.
Our consideration is described below, and required to perform a review for impairment of long-lived assets at incorporates consideration of sensitivity disclosures.
any time an indicator of impairment exists.
There is a heightened level of potential impairment risk at Antucoya We evaluated the Directors future cash flow forecasts, and the process from the perspective of its high cost base: and Centinela from the by which they were drawn up, including verifying the mathematical perspective of its sensitivity to changes in the long term copper price accuracy of the cash flow models and agreeing future capital and and that a significant portion of its value generation is tied up in two operating expenditure to the latest Board approved budgets and the significant capital projects that have not yet been formally approved.
latest approved Life of Mine plans.
We assessed the reasonableness of the Directors future capital and operating expenses in light of their historical Based on the Directors considerations of the results of their carrying accuracy and the current operational results and concluded the forecasts value review, they concluded that no impairment indicators existed had been appropriately prepared, based on updated assessments of future in respect of Antucoya and Centinela.
operational performance and cost saving initiatives.
This assessment included consideration of a valuation and sensitivity analysis.
This analysis requires judgement on the part of the Directors We evaluated the appropriateness of key market related assumptions in valuing the relevant CGUs.
The Directors have applied assumptions in the Directors valuation models, including the copper prices, discount that a market participant would use to determine fair value, including rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
We noted that the recoverable incorporating value from cash flows related to the planned construction amount was particularly sensitive to changes in the long-term copper of a second concentrator at Centinela.
price and foreign exchange assumptions and in the case of Centinela, the expansion projects.
Refer to Note 4 Asset Sensitivities.
We formed an independent view of the copper price that a market participant might use in a fair value less cost of disposal scenario.
We found that the Directors longterm copper price assumption of $3.10 lb was within a reasonable range.
We independently calculated a weighted average cost of capital by making reference to market data, and considering the CGU specific risks.
The discount rate used by the Directors of 8% fell within a reasonable range.
We performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions within the cash flow forecasts using a range of higher discount rates and lower long term copper prices.
In light of the above, we reviewed the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 4 of the financial statements, including the sensitivities provided, and concluded they were appropriate.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Parent Company to communicate in our report.
co. uk 143 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC CONTINUED HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We also requested that component auditors perform specified We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough procedures over the corporate offices in Chile, and specific line items work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a of other entities within the Group to ensure that we had sufficient whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent coverage from our audit work for each line of the Groups financial Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in statements.
For all other non-financially significant components, the which they operate.
Group team performed analytical review procedures.
The core mining business consists of four assets: Los Pelambres: Where work was performed by component auditors, we determined Centinela: Antucoya and Zaldvar, a joint venture with Barrick Gold the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work to be able Corporation operated by the Group.
These mines produce copper to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been cathodes, copper concentrates and significant volumes of by-products.
obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
In addition to mining the Group has a transport division that provides rail and road cargo services in northern Chile predominantly to mining UK staff were seconded to PwC Chile to be an integral part of the team.
customers, including to the Groups own operations.
In addition the Senior Statutory Auditor visited Chile twice, and attended key audit meetings with management and met with our component All of the above operations are located in Chile.
In addition, the Group auditors.
The Group team also reviewed the component auditor working has corporate head offices located in both Santiago, Chile Antofagasta papers, attended local audit clearance meetings, and reviewed other Minerals S. A. and London, UK Antofagasta plc.
The Group also has forms of communications dealing with significant accounting and exploration projects in various countries.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined MATERIALITY the type of work that needed to be performed at each of the four mine The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
sites and the corporate offices in Chile, by us, as the Group engagement We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together team and by component auditors from PwC Chile operating under with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our instruction.
Los Pelambres and Centinela were considered to be our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures financially significant components of the Group, due to their contribution on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in towards Group profit before tax, and so required audits of their evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate complete financial information.
Antucoya and Zaldvar were also subject on the financial statements as a whole.
to an audit of their complete financial information, in response to the risk of impairment of Antucoyas carrying value and the carrying value of Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the inventory at Zaldvar.
financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality $64 million 2017: $49 million.
How we determined it 5% of three-year average profit before tax 1% of Total Assets.
adjusted for one off items.
For overall Group materiality, we chose to For the Parent Company materiality, we Rationale for benchmark applied use an underlying earnings measure as the determined our materiality based on total assets, benchmark because an underlying measure which is more applicable than a performanceremoves the impact of material items which related measure as the company is an do not recur from year to year or otherwise investment holding company for the Group.
significantly affect the underlying trend of performance from continuing operations.
The adoption of a multi-year average benchmark for materiality responds to longerterm trends in commodity markets and reduces volatility in the measure year-on-year.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $10 million and $40 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.5 million Group audit 2017: $1.5 million and $728,000 Parent Company audit 2017: $923,500 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
144 144 Antofagasta plc Annual Report 2018 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOING CONCERN In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, statements about whether the Directors considered it appropriate this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Parent to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
For example, the financial statements and the Directors identification of any material terms on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the European uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on from the date of approval of the financial statements.
the Companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The Directors' explanation on page 22 of the Annual Report as Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, period they have done so and why they consider that period to except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a of assurance thereon.
reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longerrequired to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope material misstatement of the financial statements or a material than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether to report based on these responsibilities.
the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also of the Group and Parent Company and their environment obtained in considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act the course of the audit.
Listing Rules 2006 have been included.
OTHER CODE PROVISIONS Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to in the course of the audit, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the report when: Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless The statement given by the Directors, on page 139, that they consider otherwise stated.
the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT members to assess the Group's and Parent Company's position and In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report with our knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial the course of performing our audit.
statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal The section of the Annual Report on pages 108 to 113 describing the requirements.
CA06 work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent The Directors' statement relating to the Parent Company's Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Directors Report.
CA06 Rules, for review by the auditors.
THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND DIRECTORS REMUNERATION OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Act 2006.
CA06 The Directors' confirmation on page 25 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks 145 antofagasta.
co. uk 145 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANTOFAGASTA PLC CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS APPOINTMENT AND THE AUDIT Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 20 May 2015 to audit the financial RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement set out on page 139, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of is 4 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2015 to the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework 31 December 2018. and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are Jason Burkitt free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue London as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going 18 March 2019 concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
USE OF THIS REPORT This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING COMPANIES ACT 2006 EXCEPTION REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Certain disclosures of Directors' remuneration specified by law are not made: or The Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
