Strategic report Financial statements Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Ascential plc Overview 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Ascential plc the Company Materiality: group financial 2.0m 2017: 2.7m for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the consolidated statements as a whole statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income, the 5.4% 2017: 4.6% of normalised profit consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of before tax from continuing operations changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the parent Coverage 75% 2017: 85% of group revenue company statement of changes in equity, the parent company statement of financial position, and the related notes, including the parent and group 86% 2017: 94% of group profit accounting policies in notes 1 & 2 respectively.
before tax from continuing operations In our opinion: Key audit matters vs 2017 the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Recurring risks Revenue recognition Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Recognition of deferred tax the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in assets in respect of US losses accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Event Valuation of contingent consideration by the European Union: driven for One Click Retail, Medialink, Clavis, the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared Brand View and Flywheel acquisitions in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 102  Parent company Recoverability of cost of investment Ireland: and recurring risk in subsidiaries and intra-group debtors the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 16 July 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the three financial years ended 31 December 2018.
Prior to that we were auditor to the groups previous parent company, but which, being unlisted, was not a public-interest entity.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
81 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED For the period ended 31 December 2018 2.
Key audit matters: assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Revenue recognition 2018 2019 sales Our procedures included: The Group earns revenue from a variety of sources.
The 319.8 million: resulting large volume of non-homogenous transactions Test of details: For event based revenues, selecting a 2017: 270.2m creates a risk of processing error.
In addition revenue sample of revenue transactions recognised in the year is the most material figure in the financial statements and deferred revenue at the year end and assessing Refertopage61 Audit and is considered to be a main driver of results, and as whether the related revenue has been recorded in the CommitteeReport, page96 such had the greatest effect on our allocation of period in which the event occurred.
accountingpolicy andpage resources in planning and completing the audit.
Test of details: For subscription based and advisory and For event based revenues 2018 revenue: 121.4m: marketing revenues, selecting a sample of transactions 2017: 114.1m, there is a significant lead time in the recorded in revenue in the year and deferred and accrued billing of customers that can occur up to a year prior to revenue at the year end and checking whether the an event taking place.
As such, there is a risk due to related revenue has been recognised over the period error that revenue is recognised in the wrong period, in which the performance obligations are met based on particularly for events held close to the year end.
the underlying terms of the customer contract.
For subscription based revenues 2018 revenue: Test of details: We obtained 100% of the journals posted 138.2m: 2017: 106.2m and advisory and marketing in respect of revenue and, using computer assisted audit revenues 2018 revenue: 60.2m: 2017: 49.9m, techniques, analysed these to identify and investigate any contracts are entered into which span the 31 December entries which appeared unusual based upon the specific year end.
There is a risk, due to error, that the deferral characteristics of the journal, considering in particular and recognition of revenues does not appropriately whether the debit side of the journal entry was as match the underlying terms of customer contracts, in expected, based on our business understanding.
particular the period over which the performance obligations are met.
Our results: The results of our testing were satisfactory and we found no instances of revenue recorded in the incorrect period 2017: no instances.
82 Strategic report Financial statements Governance The risk Our response Recognition of deferred Subjective estimate Our procedures included: tax assets in respect During 2016, the Group passed the threshold at which of US losses a change of control, as defined by the US Tax code, Own tax expertise: With the assistance of our own tax occurs.
As a result, the historical losses of the Groups specialists we evaluated the Directors interpretation of 15 million: 2017: 13.8m US businesses will be subject to a restriction on key aspects of the tax legislation.
This included critically utilisation, based on the valuation of the US tax group assessing the associated assumptions made in relation to Refertopage63 Audit at the time the change of control occurred.
the valuation of the US tax groups deferred tax assets CommitteeReport, page against the independent advice taken by the Group 101 accountingpolicy The amount of this restriction will not be known for and relevant tax legislation.
andpage117 financial certain until the position has been accepted by the US disclosures.
This requires the Group to Assessing valuers credentials: We assessed the make an estimate and significant judgement at the competence and objectivity of the external experts who current year-end in respect of value attributed to the prepared reports to support the associated assumptions US business at the time of the control change and underpinning valuation of the US tax group at the time therefore the amount of tax losses available to the change of control occurred, and the effect of the offset future taxable profits.
restriction on the US tax groups deferred tax asset.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk Assessing transparency: We considered the adequacy assessment, we determined that the valuation of the US of the related judgements and estimates disclosures tax group at the time the change of control occurred provided in notes 2 and 17 of the Group financial has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a statements.
potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
Our results: As a result of our work we found the level The financial statements note 2 disclose the of deferred tax assets recognised to be acceptable judgements and estimates made by the group.
Valuation of contingent Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: consideration for the One The Group has recognised significant contingent Click Retail, Medialink, consideration liabilities in respect of the One Click Assessing forecasts: For the businesses acquired in the Clavis, Brand View and Retail, Medialink, Clavis, Brand View and Flywheel year Brand View and Flywheel businesses, we compared Flywheel acquisitions acquisitions.
There is inherent uncertainty involved in the forecast revenue and profit growth, used as the basis forecasting revenue and profit margins of the acquired for the calculation of the fair value of the contingent 59.7 million: businesses, which determines the fair value of the consideration at the acquisition date and as at the balance 2017: 59.4 million liability at the acquisition date and as at the balance sheet date, with the forecasts included in the due sheet date.
diligence reports obtained prior to the acquisition, recent Refertopage63 Audit performance of the business and current forecasts.
CommitteeReport, page The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk 101 accountingpolicy and assessment, we determined that the fair value of the For the previously acquired businesses One Click Retail, page120 financial contingent consideration liability has a high degree Medialink, Clavis, we challenged the changes in the disclosures.
of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of forecast revenue and profit growth compared to the reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for forecasts used as the basis for the initial contingent the financial statements as a whole.
The financial consideration calculation, current forecasts, and to the statements note 12 disclose the range of outcomes recent performance of the business, taking into account estimated by the group.
changes in the agreements made in the year.
Assessing valuers credentials: For the businesses acquired in the year, we assessed the competence and objectivity of the external experts who prepared the due diligence reports used to support the methodology and assumptions within the forecasts.
Assessing transparency: We assessed the adequacy of the groups disclosures about the potential range of future payments, and the estimates and judgements made by the Group in this regard.
Our results: As a result of our work we found the level of contingent consideration recognised to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
83 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED For the period ended 31 December 2018 The risk Our response Recoverability of cost of Low risk, high value Our procedures included: investment in subsidiary Following restructuring of subsidiaries in the year a and intra-group debtors significant percent of the groups intra-group debt was Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of parent capitalized and is now represented as investment in companys only investment with the subsidiarys draft Investment 452.8 million: subsidiary.
The amount of the parent companys balance sheet and assessing the 99% of the group debtor 2017: 52.8 million investment in its subsidiary, which acts as an balance to identify whether its net assets, being an intermediate holding company for the rest of the approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, Intra-group debtors companys subsidiaries, represents 75% 2017: 8% were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing 148.3 million: of the parent companys assets.
The carrying amount whether the group headed by the subsidiary has 2017: 598.8 million of the intra-group debtors balance comprises the historically been profit-making.
Refertopage61 Audit Comparing valuations: Comparing the carrying amount CommitteeReport, page of the investment in the subsidiary to the groups market 130 accountingpolicy and capitalisation as adjusted to exclude the liabilities of the page131and133 financial parent company, being an approximation of the disclosures.
recoverable amount of the investment.
Our results: We found the groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in its subsidiary and the group receivables balance to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
84 Strategic report Financial statements Governance The Group team performed procedures on discontinued operations 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope disclosed in Note 10 and the items excluded from normalised group profit of our audit before tax.
Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 2.0m 2017: 2.7m, determined with reference to a benchmark of profit before Telephone conference meetings were held with the component auditors.
tax from continuing operations normalised to exclude this years acquisition At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed related contingent employment and capital costs as disclosed in notes 5 in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then respectively, of 37.0m 2017: 58.8m, of which it represents 5.4% performed by the component auditor.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 2.0m 2017: 2.7m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets of which it represents 1% 2017: 1% and capped at group materiality.
profit benchmark Group Materiality We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected 37.0m 2017: 58.8m 2.0m 2017: 2.7m identified misstatements exceeding 100,000 2017: 135,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on 2m qualitative grounds.
Whole financial statements materiality Of the groups 71 2017: 74 reporting components, we subjected 7 2017: 2017: 2.7m 7 to audits for group purposes and 2 2017:1 to specified risk-focused audit procedures over revenue.
The components for which we performed 1.5m specified risk-focused procedures were not individually significant but were Range of materiality at included in the scope of our group audit work in order to provide further 9 components coverage over the Groups results.
The discontinued operations were 0.2m 1.5m also audited.
2017: 0.5m 2.0m The group operates one shared service centre in India, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components it services and therefore it is not a separate reporting component.
The service centre is subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, profit benchmark predominantly the testing of transaction processing controls.
Additional Group materiality 100,000 procedures are performed at certain reporting components to address Misstatements reported the audit risks not covered by the work performed over the shared to the audit committee service centre.
2017: 135,000 The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages Group revenue Group profit before tax illustrated opposite.
on continuing operations The remaining 25% 2017: 15% of total group revenue, 14% 2017: 6% of group profit before tax from continuing operations and 7.7% 2017: 13% of total group assets is represented by 62 2017: 66 reporting components, 6 5 none of which individually represented more than 5% 2017: 4% of any of 3 total group revenue, group profit before tax or total group assets.
For these 75% 86% residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level 2017: 85% 2017: 94% 8 to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of 67 82 material misstatement within these.
88 81 The work on one component 2017: none was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group team.
Component materialities ranged from Group total assets 0.2m to 1.5m 2017: 0.5m to 2.0m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Full scope for group audit procedures 2018 The Group team instructed components auditors as to the significant areas specified risk-focused audit 0.3 to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the procedures 2018 1 information to be reported back.
Full scope for group audit 92.3% purposes 2017 2017: 87% specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 86 Residual components 87 85 Ascential plc Annual Report 2018 Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED For the period ended 31 December 2018 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern Annual Report basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least form of assurance conclusion thereon.
a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we material misstatements in the other information.
cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were Strategic report and directors report reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a Based solely on our work on the other information: material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report Group and the Company will continue in operation.
and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent year is consistent with the financial statements: and risks to the Groups and Companys business model and analysed how in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the those risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or Companies Act 2006. ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companys Directors remuneration report available financial resources over this period were: In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited The impact of a UK and or a global recession: has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The postponement or cancellation of one of the groups major events: and Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability A significant change in underlying data infrastructures resulting in Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, reduced data availability for groups e-commerce services.
we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors confirmation within Directors Statement of Viability on As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the page 36 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these they are being managed and mitigated: and risks individually and collectively and evaluated the achievability of the the directors explanation in the Directors Statement of Viability of how actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they should the risks materialise.
We also considered less predictable but realistic have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, second order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit.
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements on the use or assumptions.
of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the long-term viability of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 29 is Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were concern as a key audit matter.
reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and 86 Strategic report Financial statements Governance provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the from inspection of the companys regulatory and legal correspondence, and Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or discussed with the directors and other management the policies and the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement audit.
This included communication from the group to the component audit does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the team of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Firstly, the Company is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related are required to report by exception companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as in our opinion: part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Secondly, the company is subject to many other laws and regulations from branches not visited by us: or where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the the imposition of fines or litigation.
We identified the following areas as accounting records and returns: or those most likely to have such an effect: data protection, anti-bribery, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not and employment law, recognising the nature of the companys activities.
made: or Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify we have not received all the information and explanations we require non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the for our audit.
directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual We have nothing to report in these respects.
Respective responsibilities Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable Directors responsibilities risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 79, the directors the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing have no realistic alternative but to do so.
non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, responsibilities whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, taken on the basis of the financial statements.
or for the opinions we have formed.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website Ian Griffiths Senior Statutory Auditor at www.
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Irregularities ability to detect 15 Canada Square We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be London expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our E14 5GL general commercial and sector experience, through discussion with the 22 February 2019 directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 89
