Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2018 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Company for the year ended 30 June 2018 which comprise on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Consolidated statement obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit of changes in equity, Company statement of changes in equity, opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit and Risk committee.
Consolidated cash flow statement, Company Cash Flow Statement, We were first appointed as auditor of the Company then Ashmore and the related notes, including the accounting policies in notes 1 to 4.
Group Limited by the Directors following its incorporation on 30 November 1998.
Subsequent to the Companys conversion into a In our opinion: public limited company and the public listing of its shares on the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the London Stock Exchange on 3 October 2006, we were reappointed as Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2018 auditor of Ashmore Group PLC by the Directors on 31 October 2007. and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 19 years ended the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 30 June 2018 11 years since the Companys public listing.
We have accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the parent Company financial statements have been properly the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act Overview 2006: and Materiality: Group 9.67m 2017: 10.07m the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with financial statements 5% 2017: 5% of Group profit the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the as a whole before tax Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Coverage 98% 2017: 97% of Group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 Recurring risks Management fee rebates Seed capital investments Share-based payments 76 76 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2018 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement We have audited the financial statements of Ashmore Group plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include: the Company for the year ended 30 June 2018 which comprise on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key balance sheet, Company balance sheet, Consolidated statement obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit audit matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit of changes in equity, Company statement of changes in equity, opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit and Risk committee.
procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and Consolidated cash flow statement, Company Cash Flow Statement, our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in We were first appointed as auditor of the Company then Ashmore and the related notes, including the accounting policies in notes 1 to 4. forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Group Limited by the Directors following its incorporation on The risk Our response 30 November 1998.
Subsequent to the Companys conversion into a In our opinion: public limited company and the public listing of its shares on the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Management fee rebates Calculation error: Our procedures included: London Stock Exchange on 3 October 2006, we were reappointed as Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 30 June 2018 auditor of Ashmore Group PLC by the Directors on 31 October 2007.
Refer to page 48 Audit and Risk Management fee rebates payable to and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Procedures in relation to rebate rates: The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 19 years ended Committee report, page 95 customers are an area of focus as the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Control design and observation 30 June 2018 11 years since the Companys public listing.
We have accounting policy and page 97 individual rebate agreements include accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as We evaluated and tested the key processes and controls in place fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent financial disclosures.
adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : over the integrity of system data for rebate rates and the controls of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including The two key components to rebate the parent Company financial statements have been properly around approving any changes made to the rebate rates in the the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
calculations are rebate rates prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as system by inspecting evidence of review and approval.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act The Group has automated calculations Overview Test of details 2006: and for a majority of management Materiality: Group 9.67m 2017: 10.07m We agreed a selection of rebate rates used in the system the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with fee rebates.
financial statements calculation to the original legal documents outlining the latest 5% 2017: 5% of Group profit the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the as a whole Risk in relation to rebate rates effective rebate rates.
before tax Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The rebate rates are subject to Coverage 98% 2017: 97% of Group profit Procedures in relation to assets under management: periodic amendments.
As a result, before tax Outsourcing controls complete and accurate Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 We obtained an understanding of the control environment and communication of rebate rates Recurring risks Management fee rebates evaluated the operating effectiveness of controls in operation by between finance, legal and Seed capital investments inspecting the internal controls reports prepared by the service distributions teams are required, organisation and attested to by independent auditors.
Share-based payments which increases the risk of error and incomplete recording of the latest Control observation effective rates for investors.
Through retrieving system data and records we assessed the Risk in relation to assets completeness and accuracy of the data flow through the interface under management between the rebate calculation system and the third-party service provider and other in-house systems.
Assets under management data used in rebate calculations is sourced from General procedures: different parties including outsourced Control design and operation service organisations and internal We performed testing over user access and authorisation controls teams.
There is a risk that assets over the automated rebate calculation system through inspection of under management data from the system configurations and records.
third-party service provider and other in-house systems is not transmitted We performed testing over system generated reports in relation completely and accurately.
to rebates through retrieving system data and records to ascertain the completeness and accuracy of those reports.
We also tested the calculation logic in the system by tracing one calculation in the system.
Test of details We independently recalculated a selection, using a statistical sampling plan, of management fee rebates and agreed the recalculated fees to the general ledger records.
We reconciled the rebates recognised within the general ledger to the output from the automated rebate calculation system for all system calculated rebates.
Our results The results of our procedures were satisfactory.
76 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 77 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2018 The risk Our response Seed capital investments Inappropriate classification Our procedures included: 228.3 million: 2017: 210.2m The Group invests in funds that are Accounting analysis managed by its investment We critically assessed the Directors stated policy for compliance Refer to page 48 Audit and Risk management subsidiaries seed with the accounting standards and assessed the appropriateness of Committee report, page 92 capital investments.
These funds the framework designed to determine whether control exists with accounting policy and page should be consolidated where it has reference to aggregate economic interests in funds and the 110 financial disclosures.
been determined that the Group has strength of other investors rights to replace the Groups control over that fund.
In order to subsidiaries as the investment manager.
determine whether control exists for External confirmation each fund, the Group needs to assess the strength of linkage between the For each fund we agreed external inputs to the aggregate power to govern the funds operations economic interest determination including direct holdings and and the level of variable returns indirect holdings, where relevant held by the Group to independent receivable by the Group.
The outcome of the assessment Assessing judgements drives the classification of seed capital For each fund, we critically assessed the judgement on the investments which in turn drives the strength of other investors rights to replace the Groups accounting treatment for these subsidiaries as investment manager including reviewing the investments.
number of investors in each fund, if the fund is closed or open ended and the investors consent required to change the The assessment of the linkage, investment manager.
and thus determination of control which leads to the classification, Test of details requires judgement.
We agreed internal inputs to the aggregate economic interest determination including management fees and performance fees percentages, where applicable to the funds legal documents.
We reviewed the funds legal documents to assess the extent of investors rights to change investment manager as defined by the investment management agreements.
Assessing transparency We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures on the classification of seed capital investment.
Our results We found that the Groups judgements made in determining these classifications were acceptable.
78 78 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2018 The risk Our response The risk Our response Seed capital investments Inappropriate classification Our procedures included: Share-based payments Subjective estimate Our procedures included: for Executive Directors 228.3 million: 2017: 210.2m The Group invests in funds that are Accounting analysis The Group issues share awards to Assessing experts credentials managed by its investment 1.2 million: 2017: 4.8m employees under a number of shareWe critically assessed the Directors stated policy for compliance We assessed the objectivity and competency of the third-party Refer to page 48 Audit and Risk management subsidiaries seed based compensation plans.
The fair with the accounting standards and assessed the appropriateness of remuneration consultant.
Committee report, page 92 Refer to page 48 Audit and Risk capital investments.
These funds value of shares granted to Executive the framework designed to determine whether control exists with accounting policy and page Committee report, page 95 Methodology choice and benchmark should be consolidated where it has Directors are subject to achieving reference to aggregate economic interests in funds and the 110 financial disclosures.
accounting policy and page been determined that the Group has some performance conditions, being With the assistance of our remuneration specialist we critically strength of other investors rights to replace the Groups 121 financial disclosures.
In order to the Groups TSR in comparison to its assessed the methodology used in the third-party remuneration subsidiaries as the investment manager.
determine whether control exists for peer group as defined by the consultant reports to estimate the fair value of the shares External confirmation each fund, the Group needs to assess Remuneration Committee, investment granted to Executive Directors with reference to the performance the strength of linkage between the For each fund we agreed external inputs to the aggregate outperformance relevant to the conditions.
We also benchmarked the inputs used in the power to govern the funds operations economic interest determination including direct holdings and benchmark over three and five years, remuneration consultant report to externally available data or and the level of variable returns indirect holdings, where relevant held by the Group to independent growth in assets under management our knowledge of the industry.
and profitability as assessed by the Test of details diluted earnings per share relative The outcome of the assessment Assessing judgements We traced the estimation made by the remuneration consultant to a comparator index over the drives the classification of seed capital For each fund, we critically assessed the judgement on the to those used in the determination of the charge of share-based performance period.
The Group use a investments which in turn drives the strength of other investors rights to replace the Groups payment schemes.
third-party remuneration consultant to accounting treatment for these subsidiaries as investment manager including reviewing the determine the fair value of awards investments.
Assessing transparency number of investors in each fund, if the fund is closed or open granted with reference to Directors We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures in relation to the ended and the investors consent required to change the The assessment of the linkage, estimation of the likelihood of the scheme in the Remuneration report and financial statement investment manager.
and thus determination of control performance conditions being met.
disclosures in relations to estimates made to determine the fair which leads to the classification, There are subjective judgements Test of details value of the shares granted to Executive Directors.
involved in determining the We agreed internal inputs to the aggregate economic interest likelihood of the performance Our results determination including management fees and performance fees conditions being met.
The results of our procedures were satisfactory.
percentages, where applicable to the funds legal documents.
We reviewed the funds legal documents to assess the extent of investors rights to change investment manager as defined by the Recoverability of parent Low risk, high value Our procedures included: investment management agreements.
Companys loan to The carrying amount of the parent Test of details subsidiaries Companys loan to one subsidiary We reviewed the business performance of the subsidiary for any Assessing transparency 454.5 million: represents 68% 2017: 53% impairment indicators of the loan receivable.
We assessed the adequacy of the disclosures on the classification 2017: 354.1 million of the Companys total assets.
We assessed whether the subsidiary has a positive net asset value of seed capital investment.
The recoverability of the loan is not and therefore coverage of the debt owed, as well as assessed Refer to page 94 accounting a significant audit risk.
However, due whether the subsidiary has historically been profit making.
policy and page 107 Our results to its materiality in the context of the financial disclosures.
We found that the Groups judgements made in determining these parent Company financial statements, Assessing subsidiary audits: classifications were acceptable.
this is considered to be a key audit We considered the results of the work we performed on the matter for the parent Company.
subsidiary audit on the subsidiarys profits and net assets.
Our results We found the parent Companys assessment of the recoverability of the loan to the subsidiary to be acceptable.
78 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 79 Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2018 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern the scope of our audit We are required to report to you if: Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to 9.67 million 2017: 10.07 million, determined with reference to a the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements on benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 5% the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material 2017: 5%.
Materiality for the parent Company financial statements uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and as a whole was set at 6.6 million 2017: 6.6 million, determined Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of which it from the date of approval of the financial statements: or represents 1% 2017: 1%.
the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 75 We agreed to report to the Group Audit and Risk Committee any is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding We have nothing to report in these respects.
0.48 million 2017: 0.5 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We have nothing to report on the other Of the Groups 27 reporting components 2017: 31 components, information in the Annual Report we subjected five 2017: six to audits for Group reporting purposes.
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in These components covered 99% 2017: 99% of total Group the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion revenue: 98% 2017: 97% of Group profit before taxation: and 98% on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, 2017: 97% of total Group assets.
All audit procedures are completed accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as by the Group audit team at the Groups head office in London explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the Group profit before tax Group materiality financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that 191.3m 2017: 206.2m 9.67m 2017: 10.1m work we have not identified material misstatements in the other Whole financial information.
statements materiality Strategic report and Directors report 192.5m Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic 9.67m report and the Directors report: 6.6m in our opinion the information given in those reports for the Range of materiality on 5 components 1.0m to 6.6m financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and 2017: 0.4m to 4.3m in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance 0.48m with the Companies Act 2006.
Misstatements reported to the Audit and Risk Committee 2017: 0.5m Remuneration report Group materiality Group profit before tax In our opinion the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Group revenue Group profit before tax Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the longer-term viability statement on page 30 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including 99% 98% those that would threaten its business model, future performance, 2017: 99% 2017: 97% solvency and liquidity: the Principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining 99 97 how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the longer-term viability statement of 99 98 how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing Residual components attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
80 80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial stat Financial stat ements ements Independent Auditors report to the members of Ashmore Group plc only Year ended 30 June 2018 3.
We have nothing to report on going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the longer-term Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and the scope of our audit viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could We are required to report to you if: reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to Corporate governance disclosures taken on the basis of the financial statements.
9.67 million 2017: 10.07 million, determined with reference to a the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements on We are required to report to you if: benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it represents 5% A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material 2017: 5%.
Materiality for the parent Company financial statements we have identified material inconsistencies between the website at www.
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and as a whole was set at 6.6 million 2017: 6.6 million, determined knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months Irregularities ability to detect with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets, of which it the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report from the date of approval of the financial statements: or represents 1% 2017: 1%.
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 75 expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from understandable and provides the information necessary for We agreed to report to the Group Audit and Risk Committee any is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
our sector experience and through discussion with the Directors and shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding other management as required by auditing standards, and from We have nothing to report in these respects.
business model and strategy: or 0.48 million 2017: 0.5 million, in addition to other identified inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the 5.
We have nothing to report on the other Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the Of the Groups 27 reporting components 2017: 31 components, information in the Annual Report matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
financial statements including financial reporting including related we subjected five 2017: six to audits for Group reporting purposes.
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the These components covered 99% 2017: 99% of total Group We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our revenue: 98% 2017: 97% of Group profit before taxation: and 98% Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 11 on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, procedures on the related financial statement items.
All audit procedures are completed provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as by the Group audit team at the Groups head office in London the Listing Rules for our review.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
specific areas of regulatory capital recognising the importance of this We have nothing to report in these respects.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, to the continuing operation of the Company and regulatory conduct consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the recognising the potential for economic outflow associated with 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the non-compliance.
With the exception of any known or possible on which we are required to report by exception financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, work we have not identified material misstatements in the other respect of these was limited to enquiry of the Directors and other in our opinion: information.
management inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Strategic report and Directors report We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Based solely on our work on the other information: team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance received from branches not visited by us: or throughout the audit.
we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic the parent Company financial statements and the part of the report and the Directors report: As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, with the accounting records and returns: or in our opinion the information given in those reports for the as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
not made: or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. we have not received all the information and explanations we 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we require for our audit.
owe our responsibilities Remuneration report We have nothing to report in these respects.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, In our opinion the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Directors responsibilities Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 70, Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair relation to: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the Directors confirmation within the longer-term viability we have formed.
the preparation of financial statements that are free from material statement on page 30 that they have carried out a robust misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, those that would threaten its business model, future performance, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using solvency and liquidity: the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to Thomas Brown Senior Statutory Auditor the Principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor how they are being managed and mitigated: and have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Chartered Accountants the Directors explanation in the longer-term viability statement of 15 Canada Square Auditors responsibilities how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what London E14 5GL Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the period they have done so and why they considered that period financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 6 September 2018 to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 81
