INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASHTEAD GROUP PLC OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ASHTEAD GROUP PLC basis of accounting contained on page 88 to the financial In our opinion: statements and the directors statement on the longer-term viability of the Group on page 37. the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2017 and We are required to state whether we have anything material to add of the Groups profit for the year then ended: or draw attention to in relation to: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the directors confirmation on page 63 that they have carried IFRS as adopted by the European Union: out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, the Company financial statements have been properly prepared including those that would threaten its business model, future in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and performance, solvency or liquidity: as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies the disclosures on pages 34 to 36 that describe those risks and Act 2006: and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the directors statement on page 88 to the financial statements the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability The financial statements that we have audited comprise: to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Consolidated Income Statement: the directors explanation on page 34 as to how they have the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets: have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, the Consolidated and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements: and expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation the related notes 1 to 32. and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing The financial reporting framework that has been applied in attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
their preparation is applicable law and IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Company financial We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of to in respect of these matters.
We agreed with the directors the Companies Act 2006. adoption of the going concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The key risks that we identified in the current Key risks year were: INDEPENDENCE Carrying value of rental fleet: We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Acquisition accounting: and Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that we are Revenue recognition independent of the Group and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 31 million, which equates to 4.1% We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have of profit before tax.
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the Consistent with previous years, our audit Scoping prohibited non-audit services referred to in those standards.
scope comprised three 2016: three principal locations: the Head office in London, A-Plant OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT in Warrington, and Sunbelt in Charlotte, US.
The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRS AS ISSUED engagement team.
BY THE IASB As explained in Note 2 to the Group financial statements, in Acquisition accounting has been included as a new significant risk addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS in the current year following the increase in the aggregate size as adopted by the European Union, the Group has also applied and number of acquisitions completed in the year.
IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Our prior year audit report also included a further risk relating to the carrying value of goodwill which is not included in our report In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRS in the current year.
Due to the continued growth and performance as issued by the IASB.
of the business, this risk has been re-assessed and it is not considered to be one which has had the greatest effect on our GOING CONCERN AND THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit or direction PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY of the efforts of the engagement team.
OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the going concern 92 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Carrying value of rental fleet Risk As set out in Note 13, the Group holds 5.8bn 2016: 4.5bn of rental fleet at cost 4.1bn net book value description 2016: 3.2bn net book value.
There is a risk that an impairment required to the Groups rental fleet is not identified, properly quantified or recorded and that the carrying value of these assets is misstated.
How the scope We tested the design, implementation and operating effectiveness of the key controls over the impairment review of our audit at Sunbelt, which accounts for 3.5bn of the net book value of the rental fleet.
We also evaluated the design and responded to implementation of key controls at A-Plant.
the risk We considered managements analysis of impairment indicators, understood and challenged the key judgements and sensitivities and the impact that each of these have in determining whether an impairment exists.
In particular, we focused our testing on returns on investment by asset class, slow moving assets, profit and losses on asset disposals, depreciation rates and residual values.
We also assessed whether the accounting for the rental fleet and associated disclosures were in line with the Groups accounting policies.
Key Based on our detailed audit work performed, we are satisfied that the carrying value of the rental fleet is not observations materially misstated.
Acquisition accounting Risk As set out within Note 26, the Group made 15 bolt-on acquisitions during the year.
Total consideration for these description acquisition was 428m, which includes the acquisition of I & L Rentals on 2 May 2016, Arsenal on 17 January 2017 and Pride on 31 March 2017 for consideration of 46m, 31m and 231m respectively.
Accounting for business combinations requires the use of significant management judgement regarding the fair valuation of the asset and liabilities acquired in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Specifically, the identification and valuation of acquired intangible assets involves a number of judgements including the discount rate and growth rate assumptions and is considered a key risk.
How the scope We have evaluated managements determination of the fair value of net assets acquired, focusing on the valuation of our audit of intangible assets recognised at the acquisition date for the Pride, I & L Rentals and Arsenal acquisitions.
responded to We evaluated the design and implementation of controls over accounting for acquisitions.
the risk Specifically, we have challenged managements methodology and assumptions underlying the valuation of acquired intangible assets by: Engaging our internal valuation specialists to evaluate and challenge the valuation methodology used by management and the Groups external valuation expert.
This included assessing the intangible assets identified and the basis for their valuation.
Involving our internal valuation specialists to evaluate the key assumptions used in the valuation model and benchmark the discount rate and growth rate used to external market data.
We have evaluated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Key Based on our detailed audit work performed, we consider managements key judgements and assumptions used in observations the valuation of net assets, specifically the valuation of acquired intangible assets, at the acquisition dates fall within an acceptable range.
Revenue recognition Risk Given the high volume, low value nature of transactions in Ashteads revenue we identified a risk of misstatement description arising from management intervention, either in the form of top-side journals or through manipulation of billed not earned and earned not billed judgements.
How the scope We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the revenue cycle.
of our audit We have focused our substantive testing on the billed not earned and earned not billed calculations.
In doing so, responded to we have reviewed managements methodology, traced the information in the reports back to invoices, payments the risk and credit notes as a substantive sample, performed analytical procedures over movements in the period and assessed the historical accuracy of managements estimations using a look-back approach.
We have also used data analytics tools to identify and profile all manual top-side adjustments impacting the revenue balance.
Key Based on our procedures performed, we did not identify any material exceptions or evidence of management bias or observations manipulation of the revenue account and the amounts recorded are in line with the Groups accounting policies as set out on Note 2.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 93 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASHTEAD GROUP PLC CONTINUED OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY Members of the Group audit team including the lead audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the partner have made site visits to component audit teams during financial statements that makes it probable that the economic the financial year and after the year end to provide sufficient and decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be appropriate oversight of work performed.
At the Group level we changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the also tested the consolidation process.
scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 for the financial statements as a whole as follows: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: 31.0 million 2016: 24.0 million, which Group the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has equates to 4.1% 2016: 3.9% of profit materiality been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act before tax.
2006: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors Basis and In determining our materiality, we have used a report for the financial year for which the financial statements rationale for three-year average profit before tax to reflect are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and determining the cyclical nature of the industry in which the the Strategic report and the Directors report have been materiality Group operates.
We have then applied a prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
benchmark of 5% to the three-year average profit before tax to arrive at materiality.
This In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company approach is consistent with the approach and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have adopted in the prior year.
not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1m 2016: 1m, MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, BY EXCEPTION warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
in our opinion: AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT we have not received all the information and explanations we Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining and understanding of require for our audit: or the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, adequate accounting records have not been kept by the and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been level.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement received from branches not visited by us: or consisted of a combination of the work performed by component the Company financial statements are not in agreement with teams in the UK and US, and the Group audit team in London.
the accounting records and returns.
The Group comprises three 2015: three principal locations: the We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Head Office in London: A-Plant in Warrington, UK: and Sunbelt in Charlotte, US.
The Group audit team performed a full scope audit Directors remuneration of the Head Office component and local component audit teams Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in performed full-scope audits at both A-Plant and Sunbelt, our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have consistent with the prior year approach.
not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records These three locations represent 99% 2016: 99% of the Groups and returns.
revenue, 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups profit before tax and 97% 2016: 96% of the Groups net assets.
They were also We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the three locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual location which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 3.8 million to 27.9 million 2016: 3.4 million to 21.6 million.
The US component team also performed a desktop review of the operations in Canada.
94 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Corporate governance statement SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review part of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give compliance with certain provisions of the UK Corporate reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Governance Code.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies We have nothing to report arising from our review.
are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial in the Annual Report is: information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information materially inconsistent with the information in the audited that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially financial statements: or inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the course of performing our audit: or implications for our report.
EDWARD HANSON In particular, we are required to consider whether we have SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP during the audit and the directors statement that they consider Statutory Auditor the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and London, UK whether the Annual Report appropriately discloses those matters 12 June 2017 that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our quality control procedures are effective, understood and applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our dedicated professional standards review team and independent partner reviews.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 95
