74 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Assura plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs asat31March2018 and of the Groups and Parent Companys profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with  Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, asregardstheGroup financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Assura plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group which comprise: the Consolidated and Parent Company Income Statements: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Comprehensive Income: the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements: the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 24 and A to F. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the EuropeanUnion.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Ourresponsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited bythe FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matter The key audit matter that we identified in the current year was the valuation of the property portfolio excluding properties under development.
Materiality The materiality applied for the Group financial statements was 25 million which was determined on the basis of 2% of net assets and specific materiality applied was 2.5 million which was determined on the basis of 5% of EPRA earnings as defined on page 42.
Scoping The Group audit team performed full scope audit procedures giving coverage of 100% of the Groups net assets.
The Group is audited in its entirety by the Group audit team.
Significant changes in our approach Our approach is consistent with the previous year.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting respect of these matters.
in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 75 Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they were to report, add or draw attention to in consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the respect of these matters.
knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 34 to 37 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors confirmation on page 32 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the Directors explanation on page 33 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of property portfolio excluding properties under development Key audit matter description The Group owns and manages a portfolio of 518 modern primary healthcare properties that are carried at fair value in the financial statements.
The portfolio is valued at 1,709.6 million as at 31 March 2018 and comprises the majority of the assets in the Group balance sheet.
The Group uses professionally qualified external valuers, Savills and Jones Lang LaSalle the Valuers, to fair value the Groups portfolio at half-yearly intervals.
The Valuers are engaged by the Directors and perform their work in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional Standards.
The Valuers used by the Group are well-known firmsand have considerable experience in the markets in which the Group operates.
The valuation of the portfolio is inherently subjective and is underpinned by a number of assumptions, therefore we have identified a potential fraud risk in this area.
The existence of significant estimation uncertainty coupled with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual property valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material misstatement on the income statement and balance sheet, warrants specific audit focus in this area.
In determining a propertys valuation, the Valuers take into account property-specific information such as current tenancy agreements and rental income attached to the asset.
The portfolio excluding development properties is valued by the investment method of valuation.
Key inputs into the valuation exercise are yields and Estimated Rental Value ERV, which are influenced by prevailing market yields, comparable market transactions and the specific characteristics of each property in the portfolio.
Valuation of property represents a key source of estimation uncertainty for the Group, as described in the Groups accounting policies in Note 2, and a significant financial reporting matter considered by the Audit Committee, as described on page 55.
Furtherdetails are disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.
76 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Given the inherent subjectivity involved in the valuation of investment properties, the need for deep market knowledge when determining the most appropriate assumptions, and the technicalities of a valuation methodology, we engaged our internal valuation specialists qualified chartered surveyors to assist us in our audit of this key risk audit matter.
We read the valuation reports for all properties and attended meetings with each of the Valuers.
We assessed whether the valuation approach for each was in accordance with RICS guidance and suitable for use in determining the carrying value in the Group balance sheet.
We assessed the Valuers qualifications and expertise and read their terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered other engagements which exist between the Group and the Valuers.
We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to test whether property-specific data supplied to the Valuers by management reflected the underlying property records held by the Group and which had been tested during our audit.
We assessed managements process for reviewing and challenging the work of the external Valuers including managements experience and knowledge to undertake this activity.
We observed discussions between management and the Valuers which evidenced that alternative assumptions and recent market transactions were considered and evaluated before the final valuation wasdetermined.
We compared the yields used by the Valuers to an estimated range of expected yields, determined via reference to published benchmarks, and to recent transactions.
We also considered the reasonableness of other assumptions that are not so readily comparable to published benchmarks, such as ERV and void rates.
Additionally, we evaluated year on year movements in capital value with reference to published benchmarks.
Where assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise deemed unusual, and or valuations appeared to experience unexpected movements, we undertook further investigations and, where necessary, held further discussions with the Valuers in order to challenge the assumptions.
We also considered the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of the estimation and sensitivity to key assumptions made when valuing these properties disclosed in Note 10.
Key observations We found that the valuations and their underlying assumptions were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence, and the disclosures were appropriate.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope ofour audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Parent Company Group financial statements financialstatements Materiality Overall Group materiality Specific Group materiality 2.3 million 25 million 2017: 16 million 2.5 million 2017: 1.9 million 2017: 1.7 million Applied to EPRA earnings impacting balances Basis for determining 2% 2017: 2% of net assets 5% 2017: 5% of The Parent Company materiality EPRAearnings materiality represents 2% 2017: 2% of equity which is capped at 90% 2017: 90% ofSpecific Group materiality.
Rationale for the In arriving at this judgement In addition to net assets, we As a non-trading Parent benchmarkapplied we had regard to the carrying consider EPRA earnings to be Company, equity is the key value of the Groups assets, a critical financial performance driver of the Company.
The acknowledging that the measure for the Group and we cap is applied against the primary performance measure applied a lower threshold of specific Group materiality of the Group is the carrying 2.5 million based on 5% of due to the EPRA earnings value of investment property.
that measure for testing of all impacting transactions within impacted balances, classes of the Company.
com 77 We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1,250,000 2017: 800,000, or 124,000 2017: 95,000 for differences impacting EPRA earnings, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its internal and external environment.
This included assessing Group-wide controls, assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level, and in particular looking at where the Directors make subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates or adoption of accounting policies that are underpinned by a number of assumptions.
Our audit work on the individual subsidiary entities was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
This results in full scope audit procedures performed on 100% 2017: 99% of the Groups net assets.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to conclude that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Other information The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information We have nothing to report in respect comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial ofthese matters.
statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual Report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
78 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Independent Auditors Report continued Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to stateto them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, orfortheopinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements areprepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the courseof the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain We have nothing to report in respect disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors ofthese matters.
Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
com 79 Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and re-appointments of the firm is seven years, covering the years ended 31 March 2012 to 31 March 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit Committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Rachel Argyle Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor Manchester, United Kingdom 22 May 2018
