Independent Auditors Report to the Members ofAstraZeneca PLC Report on the audit of the Basis for opinion Taken together, the above procedures financialstatements We conducted our audit in accordance with accounted for 85% of the Groups revenue Opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and 70% of the Groups absolute profit In our opinion: ISAs UK and applicable law.
responsibilities under ISAs UK are further AstraZeneca PLCs Group Financial described in the Auditors responsibilities for Key audit matters Statements and Parent Company Financial the audit of the Financial Statements section Recognition and measurement of accruals Statements the Financial Statements of our report.
Webelieve that the audit evidence for rebates and returns in the US give a true and fair view of the state of the we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate Assessment of the recoverability of the Groups and of the Parent Companys to provide a basis for our opinion.
carrying value of intangible assets product, affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the marketing and distribution rights Groups profit and cash flows for the year Independence Accounting for externalisation and then ended: We remained independent of the Group in collaboration arrangements in-license the Group Financial Statements have been accordance with the ethical requirements andout-licensing arrangements and other properly prepared in accordance with thatare relevant to our audit of the Financial types of complex development and International Financial Reporting Standards Statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs collaboration agreements IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public Recognition and measurement of litigation the Parent Company Financial Statements interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other and contingent liabilities have been properly prepared in accordance ethical responsibilities in accordance with Recognition and measurement of uncertain with United Kingdom Generally Accepted these requirements.
tax provisions Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 To the best of our knowledge and belief, we The scope of our audit Reduced Disclosure Framework, and declare that non-audit services prohibited by As part of designing our audit, we determined applicable law : and the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided materiality and assessed the risks of material the Financial Statements have been to the Group or the Parent Company.
misstatement in the Financial Statements.
prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Other than those disclosed in Note 31 to the Capability of the audit in detecting and, as regards the Group Financial Financial Statements, we have provided no irregularities, including fraud Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Based on our understanding of the Group and Company in the period from 1 January 2018 the industry in which it operates, we identified We have audited the Financial Statements to31 December 2018. that the principal risks of non-compliance with included within the Annual Report and Form laws and regulations related to patent protection, 20-F Information 2018 the Annual Report, Our audit approach product safety, competition law and which comprise: the Consolidated Statement Overview environmental matters see Note 29, and we of Financial Position as at 31 December 2018, Materiality considered the extent to which non-compliance the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Overall Group materiality: $130m 2017: might have a material effect on the Group Income for the year ended 31 December 2018, $160m, based on 5% of profit before tax, Financial Statements.
We also considered those the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for after adding back i intangible asset laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the year ended 31 December 2018, the impairment charges and ii fair value the financial statements such as theCompanies Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity movements and the discount unwind on Act 2006 and tax legislation.
We evaluated for the year ended 31 December 2018, the contingent consideration, as disclosed in managements incentives and opportunities Group Accounting Policies and notes to the Notes 9 and 19 respectively.
for fraudulent manipulation of the financial Group Financial Statements, the Company Overall Parent Company materiality: $100m statements including the risk of override of Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2018, the 2017: $75m, based on 1% of net assets.
controls, and determined that the principal Company Statement of Changes in Equity for risks were related to posting inappropriate the year ended 31 December 2018, the Audit scope journal entries to manipulate financial results Company Accounting Policies and notes to We identified eleven reporting components and management bias in accounting estimates.
which required a full scope audit of their The Group engagement team shared this risk complete financial information, either due assessment with the component auditors Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to totheir size or risk characteristics.
These referred to in the scoping section of our report the Audit Committee.
components are the principal operating below, so that they could include appropriate units in the US, UK, Sweden, China, Japan, audit procedures in response to such risks in Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs France, Germany, Russia and Brazil as well their work.
Audit procedures performed by the asissued by the IASB.
as the Parent Company and AstraZeneca Group engagement team and or component As explained in the Group Accounting Policies, Treasury Limited.
auditors included: the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as We also identified a further six reporting adopted by the European Union, has also components which had one or more individual Discussions with management, internal applied IFRSs as issued by the International balances that were considered significant to audit, the Deputy Chief Compliance Officer Accounting Standards Board IASB.
For these and the Groups legal counsel, including components our work was solely focussed on consideration of known or suspected In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements balances related to revenue, research and instances of non-compliance with laws and have been properly prepared in accordance development expense or property, plant and regulations and fraud: with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Evaluation and testing of the operating Audit procedures were performed centrally effectiveness of managements controls over certain shared service functions for designed to prevent and detect irregularities: transaction processing, IT and in relation to Assessment of matters reported on the various Group functions, including taxation, Groups whistleblowing helpline and results of pensions, goodwill, intangible assets and managements investigation of such matters: other investments, and litigation matters, aswell as the consolidation.
144 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements Challenging assumptions made by There are inherent limitations in the audit Key audit matters management in their significant accounting procedures described above and the further Key audit matters are those matters that, in estimates in particular in relation to estimation removed non-compliance with laws and the auditors professional judgement, were of of rebate and return accruals, impairment of regulations is from the events and transactions most significance in the audit of the Financial intangible assets, and the recognition and reflected in the financial statements, the less Statements of the current period and include measurement of litigation and contingent likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the the most significant assessed risks of material liabilities and uncertain tax provisions risk of not detecting a material misstatement misstatement whether or not due to fraud seerelated key audit matters below : due to fraud is higher than the risk of not identified by the auditors, including those Identifying and testing journal entries, in detecting one resulting from error, as fraud which had the greatest effect on: the overall particular any journal entries posted with may involve deliberate concealment by, audit strategy: the allocation of resources in unusual account combinations, journals forexample, forgery or intentional the audit: and directing the efforts of the posted by senior management, journals misrepresentations, or through collusion.
These matters, and any posted and reviewed by the same individual comments we make on the results of our and consolidation journals.
procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Recognition and measurement of accruals for rebates and returns in the US We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over Refer to page 115 Audit Committee Report, page 154 Accounting Policies and the recognition and measurement of rebates and returns.
We determined that we Note 19 in the Group Financial Statements.
could rely on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
In the US the Group sells to customers under various commercial and government We obtained managements calculations for accruals under applicable schemes mandated contracts and reimbursement arrangements that include rebates and and assessed the assumptions used by reference to the Groups stated provide a right of return for certain products, of which the most significant are commercial policies, the terms of the applicable contracts, third party data Medicare Part D, Managed Care and Medicaid.
related to patient enrolment in US government funded benefit schemes and historical levels of product returns.
These arrangements lead to material deductions to gross sales in arriving at revenue to recognise the obligations for the Group to provide customers with We compared the assumptions to contracted prices, historical rebates, discounts, rebates, discounts, allowances and the right of return, for which unsettled allowances and returns levels where relevant and to current payment trends.
The directors have determined an accrual of $4,043m We also considered the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in previous tobe necessary at 31 December 2018. years and the effect of any adjustments to prior years accruals in the current Rebate, discount, allowance and return arrangements are complex and years results.
We formed an independent expectation of the largest elements of establishing an appropriate accrual requires significant estimation on the part the accrual at 31 December 2018 using third party data where relevant and ofmanagement.
Changes in estimates can have a significant financial impact.
compared this expectation to the actual accrual recognised by the Group.
Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any material misstatements in the accruals.
Assessment of the recoverability of the carrying value of intangible assets product, We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in marketing and distribution rights assessing the carrying value of intangible assets.
We determined that we could Refer to page 115 Audit Committee Report, page 155 Accounting Policies and rely on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
Note 9 in the Group Financial Statements.
For those assets tested we obtained the Groups impairment analyses and: The Group has product, marketing and distribution rights and other intangible we tested the accuracy of the impairment models and agreed the cash flow assets totalling $21,720m, out of a total intangible asset value of $21,959m at forecasts used in the impairment models to the Board approved Long Range Plan: 31December 2018. we tested the reasonableness of key assumptions including revenue and The carrying values of intangible assets are contingent on future cash flows and profit growth or decline, the expected loss of drug exclusivity and the impact there is a risk that the assets will be impaired if cash flows are not in line with of the expiry of patents including comparing certain assumptions to industry expectations.
The projections in managements impairment models contain and economic forecasts: anumber of significant estimates including peak year and erosion sales curves, for higher risk assets we performed sensitivity analysis focusing on what we probability of technical and regulatory success factors and discount rates.
consider to be reasonably possible changes in key assumptions: and Changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment to the carrying value we assessed the historical accuracy of forecasts to assess managements of intangible assets.
Our work on intangible assets focussed on assets that were in development and We utilised our in-house valuation experts to assess the valuation techniques not being amortised and launched assets which were individually significant, used, to independently corroborate the discount rate used by management had lower levels of headroom or where there have been concerns over the byreference to market data and to assist with the evaluation of other key recoverability of the carrying value of specific assets in previous periods.
assumptions for higher risk assets primarily probability of technical and regulatory success factors.
As a result of our work, we determined that the net impairment charge of $683m recorded for intangible assets was appropriate.
We reviewed the disclosures in Note 9 of the Group Financial Statements, including sensitivity analysis based on reasonably possible downsides.
We are satisfied that these disclosures are appropriate.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Financial Statements 145 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for externalisation and collaboration arrangements in-license and We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in out-licensing arrangements and other types of complex development and place over significant contracts and collaboration agreements.
that we could rely on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
Refer to page 115 Audit Committee Report, page 155 Accounting Policies and For each material externalisation revenue transaction we reviewed the underlying Note 1 in the Group Financial Statements.
contract and managements accounting analysis to understand both the formal The Group routinely enters into development and commercialisation terms of the agreement and its commercial substance.
arrangements and collaborations with other pharmaceutical companies.
These We assessed whether components of the transaction were at fair value and include in-license and out-licensing arrangements and other types of complex whether the rights transferred under the arrangement qualified for revenue agreements.
In 2018, the Group recognised externalisation revenue of $1,041m.
recognition having regard to the remaining performance obligations under the The nature of these arrangements mean that the accounting for externalisation arrangement.
Where there were ongoing performance obligations we assessed revenue is often inherently complex and judgemental, unusual by definition and whether an appropriate proportion of revenue had been deferred, including an presents a higher level of risk.
appropriate margin for the work yet to be performed.
Where there was a related intangible asset we assessed whether an appropriate amount of that intangible asset had been derecognised on transfer of the relevant rights.
Based on the procedures performed, we consider managements judgements reasonable and did not identify any material misstatements.
Recognition and measurement of litigation and contingent liabilities We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in Refer to page 116 Audit Committee Report, page 158 Accounting Policies and respect of the recognition and measurement of litigation matters.
We determined Notes 20 and 29 in the Group Financial Statements.
The pharmaceuticals industry is heavily regulated which increases inherent We read the summary of litigation matters provided by management and held litigation risk.
The Group is engaged in a number of legal actions, including discussions with the Groups legal counsel.
We requested and obtained legal patent litigation, product liability, anti-trust and related litigation.
letters from certain of the Groups external legal advisors with respect to the matters included in the summary.
Where appropriate we examined At 31 December 2018, the Group held provisions of $198m in respect of legal claims.
correspondence connected with the cases.
These provisions are based on judgements and reflect accounting estimates made We considered managements judgements on the level of provisioning to be by management in determining the likelihood and magnitude of an unfavourable reasonable.
We also evaluated the appropriateness of the disclosures in Note 20 outcome on the claims.
Accordingly, unexpected adverse outcomes could and Note 29 which we considered appropriate.
significantly impact the Groups reported profit and balance sheet position.
Recognition and measurement of uncertain tax provisions We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in Refer to page 116 Audit Committee Report, page 156 Accounting Policies and respect of the recognition and measurement of uncertain tax provisions.
We Note 29 in the Group Financial Statements.
determined that we could rely on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
The Group operates in a complex multinational tax environment and is subject to With the assistance of our local and international tax specialists, we evaluated a range of tax risks during the normal course of business including transaction managements judgements and estimates of tax exposures and contingencies related tax matters and transfer pricing arrangements.
inorder to assess the adequacy of the Groups tax provisions.
In understanding and evaluating managements judgements, we considered the status of recent Where the amount of tax payable is uncertain, the Group establishes provisions and current tax authority audits and enquiries, judgemental positions taken in based on managements judgement and estimates of the probable amount of tax returns and current year estimates and developments in the tax environment.
Where appropriate, we also read documentation to understand the positions At 31 December 2018, the Group has recorded provisions of $942m in respect of reached.
We noted that the assumptions and judgements that are required uncertain tax positions.
toformulate the provisions mean that there is a range of possible outcomes.
However, from the evidence obtained, we considered the level of provisioning to be acceptable in the context of the Group Financial Statements taken as a whole.
We reviewed the disclosures in Note 29 of the Group Financial Statements.
Weare satisfied that these disclosures are appropriate.
We determined that there were no key audit In establishing the overall approach to the The Group operates in over 100 countries and matters applicable to the Parent Company to Group audit, we determined the type of work the size of operations within each territory communicate in our report.
that needed to be performed by us, as the varies.
We identified eleven reporting Group engagement team, or component components which required a full scope audit How we tailored the audit scope auditors within PwC UK and other PwC for Group reporting.
These are the principal We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure network firms operating under our instruction.
operating units in the US, UK, Sweden, China, that we performed enough work to be able to Where the work was performed by component Japan, France, Germany, Russia and Brazil as give an opinion on the Financial Statements auditors, we determined the level of involvement well as the Parent Company and AstraZeneca as a whole, taking into account the structure we needed to have in the audit work in these Treasury Limited.
We identified these eleven of the Group and the Parent Company, the territories to be able to conclude whether reporting components as those that, in our accounting processes and controls, and the sufficient appropriate audit evidence had view, required an audit of their complete industry in which they operate.
been obtained as a basis for our opinion on financial information, due to their size or risk the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
146 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Financial Statements Financial Statements We also identified a further six reporting Audit procedures were performed centrally Materiality components which had one or more individual over certain shared service functions for The scope of our audit was influenced by financial statement line item balances that transaction processing, IT and in relation to ourapplication of materiality.
We set certain were considered significant to the Groups various Group functions, including taxation, quantitative thresholds for materiality.
For these components pensions, goodwill, intangible assets and together with qualitative considerations, helped our work solely focussed on balances related other investments, and litigation matters, us to determine the scope of our audit and to revenue Canada, a further reporting aswell as the consolidation.
thenature, timing and extent of our audit component in China, Italy, and Spain, procedures on the individual financial research and development expense further Taken together, the above procedures statement line items and disclosures and in reporting components in the UK and the US accounted for 85% of the Groups revenue evaluating the effect of misstatements, both or property, plant and equipment further and 70% of the Groups absolute profit individually and in aggregate on the financial reporting component in the US.
Based on our professional judgement, wedetermined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Overall materiality $130m 2017: $160m $100m 2017: $75m How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, after adding back intangible asset impairment charges, fair 1% of net assets value movements and discount unwind on contingent consideration as disclosed in Notes 9 and 19 respectively.
Rationale for The reported profit of the Group can fluctuate due to intangible asset impairment We have considered the nature of the business in benchmarkapplied charges and fair value and discount unwind movements on contingent AstraZeneca PLC being investment holding and consideration.
These amounts are prone to year on year volatility and are not have determined that net assets is an appropriate necessarily reflective of the operating performance of the Group and as such they basis for the calculation of the overall materiality have been excluded from the benchmark amount.
For each component in the scope of our Group We agreed with the Audit Committee that we Going concern audit, we allocated a materiality that is less would report to them misstatements identified In accordance with ISAs UK we report than our overall Group materiality.
The range during our audit above $7m for both the Group asfollows: ofmateriality allocated across components Financial Statements and the Parent Company was between $10m and $105m.
Financial Statements 2017: $7m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
to in respect of the directors statement in the Financial Statements about As not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements and the directors going concern.
For example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Parent withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to occur on 29 March Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications.
twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going Concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information whether the other information is materially With respect to the Strategic Report and The other information comprises all of the inconsistent with the financial statements or our Directors Report we also considered whether information in the Annual Report other than knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise the disclosures required by the UK Companies the financial statements and our auditors appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify Act 2006 have been included.
The directors are responsible an apparent material inconsistency or material for the other information.
Our opinion on the misstatement, we are required to perform Based on the responsibilities described above financial statements does not cover the other procedures to conclude whether there is and our work undertaken in the course of the information and, accordingly, we do not express amaterial misstatement of the financial audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs an audit opinion or, except to the extent statements or a material misstatement of the UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any other information.
If, based on the work we Conduct Authority FCA require us also form of assurance thereon.
have performed, we conclude that there is a toreport certain opinions and matters as material misstatement of this other information, described below required by ISAs UK In connection with our audit of the financial we are required to report that fact.
statements, our responsibility is to read the nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
other information and, in doing so, consider AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Financial Statements 147 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC continued Strategic Report and Directors Report Other Code Provisions our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high In our opinion, based on the work undertaken We have nothing to report in respect of our level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that in the course of the audit, the information responsibility to report when: an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs given in the Strategic Report and Directors UK will always detect a material misstatement Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 The statement given by the directors, on when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from is consistent with the financial statements and page 143, that they consider the Annual fraud or error and are considered material if, has been prepared in accordance with Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced individually or in the aggregate, they could applicable legal requirements CA06.
and understandable, and provides the reasonably be expected to influence the information necessary for the members to economic decisions of users taken on the In light of the knowledge and understanding of assess the Groups and Parent Companys basis of these financial statements.
the Group and Parent Company and their position and performance, business model environment obtained in the course of the and strategy is materially inconsistent with A further description of our responsibilities for audit, we did not identify any material our knowledge of the Group and Parent the audit of the financial statements is located misstatements in the Strategic Report and Company obtained in the course of on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms The section of the Annual Report on pages part of our auditors report.
The directors assessment of the prospects of 113 to 119 describing the work of the Audit the Group and of the principal risks that would Committee does not appropriately address Use of this report threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group matters communicated by us to the This report, including the opinions, has been We have nothing material to add or draw AuditCommittee.
prepared for and only for the Parent Companys attention to regarding: The directors statement relating to the members as a body in accordance with Parent Companys compliance with the Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 The directors confirmation on page 70 Code does not properly disclose a and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving ofthe Annual Report that they have carried departure from a relevant provision of the these opinions, accept or assume responsibility out a robust assessment of the principal Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for any other purpose or to any other person to risks facing the Group, including those forreview by the auditors.
whom this report is shown or into whose hands thatwould threaten its business model, it may come save where expressly agreed by future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Directors Remuneration our prior consent in writing.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that In our opinion, the part of the Directors describe those risks and explain how they Remuneration Report to be audited has been Other required reporting are being managed or mitigated.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 exception reporting The directors explanation on page 71 of Companies Act 2006 CA06.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are the Annual Report as to how they have required to report to you if, in our opinion: assessed the prospects of the Group, over Responsibilities for the financial statements what period they have done so and why and the audit we have not received all the information and they consider that period to be appropriate, Responsibilities of the directors for the explanations we require for our audit: or and their statement as to whether they have financial statements adequate accounting records have not a reasonable expectation that the Group As explained more fully in the Preparation been kept by the Parent Company, or will be able to continue in operation and ofthe Financial Statements and Directors returns adequate for our audit have not meet its liabilities as they fall due over the responsibilities pursuant to DTR 4 set out on been received from branches not visited period of their assessment, including any page 143, the directors are responsible for byus: or related disclosures drawing attention to any the preparation of the financial statements in certain disclosures of directors remuneration necessary qualifications or assumptions.
accordance with the applicable framework and specified by law are not made: or for being satisfied that they give a true and fair the Parent Company financial statements We have nothing to report having performed view.
The directors are also responsible for and the part of the Directors Remuneration areview of the directors statement that they such internal control as they determine Report to be audited are not in agreement have carried out a robust assessment of the isnecessary to enable the preparation of with the accounting records and returns.
principal risks facing the Group and statement financial statements that are free from material in relation to the longer-term viability of the misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
We have no exceptions to report arising from Group.
Our review was substantially less this responsibility.
inscope than an audit and only consisted In preparing the Financial Statements, the ofmaking inquiries and considering the directors are responsible for assessing the Appointment directors process supporting their Groups and the Parent Companys ability Following the recommendation of the Audit statements: checking that the statements tocontinue as a going concern, disclosing as Committee, we were appointed by the arein alignment with the relevant provisions applicable, matters related to going concern shareholders on 27 April 2017 to audit ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code and using the going concern basis of thefinancial statements for the year theCode : and considering whether the accounting unless the directors either intend ended31December 2017 and subsequent statements are consistent with the knowledge to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company financial periods.
The period of total and understanding of the Group and Parent or to cease operations, or have no realistic uninterrupted engagement is 2 years, Company and their environment obtained in alternative but to do so.
coveringthe years ended 31December 2017 the course of the audit Listing Rules.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor Our objectives are to obtain reasonable for and on behalf of assurance about whether the financial  LLP statements as a whole are free from material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, London and to issue an auditors report that includes 14 February 2019 148 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2018 Financial Statements
