Independent auditors report to the members of AutoTrader Group plc only 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards We have audited the financial statements of AutoTraderGroupplc on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise the Group are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have Statement of Financial Position and Parent Company Balance Sheet, obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Statement of Cash Flows, the Group and Parent Companys We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 22 September Statements of Changes in Equity, and related notes including the 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the two accounting policies in note 1. financial years ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical In our opinion: responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit of the Groups profit for the year then ended: services prohibited by that standard were provided.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Overview adopted by the European Union: Materiality: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly Group financial 8.0m 2017: 8.0m prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including statements as a whole 3.8% 2017: 4.1% of Group profit before tax FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Coverage 100% 2017: 100% of Group profit before tax Republic of Ireland: and Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Recurring risks Revenue recognition the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Recoverability of Parent Companys Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these.
The risk Our response Revenue recognition Data processing Our procedures included: Data comparisons: Using computer assisted audit techniques to match sales 330.1 million: Revenue primarily consists information from the billing system to the accounting records: 2017: 311.4 million of fees for advertising on the Groups website and Tests of details: Using computer assisted audit techniques to match entire Refer to page 62 web-related activities, along population of billings to cash received during the year and trade debtors outstanding Audit Committee Report, with retailer website build and at the year end.
Selecting a sample of trade debtors and assessing their recoverability page 93 accounting hosting subscription fees, with reference to post year end cash receipts: policy and page 102 maintenance contracts and financial disclosures.
Expectation vs outcome: For customers with bespoke contracts, obtaining these other subscription fees.
Given contracts and forming an expectation of the revenue to be recognised in the period, the variety of packages available, comparing this to the actual: the ability of retailers to bespoke Tests of details: Selecting a sample of transactions recorded within a month before the combination of products and after the period end and assessing whether revenue has been recognised in the they receive, and to amend this correct period with reference to supporting invoices and cash receipts: through time, as well as the large volume of transactions, there Tests of details: Assessing the appropriateness of accrued income at the year end is a risk that revenue may be with reference to post year end billings and cash receipts.
Assessing the misstated due to errors made appropriateness of deferred income at the year end with reference to the prior year in capturing and processing and our knowledge of the billing pattern of each revenue stream: this large variety of data.
Tests of details: Performing a review of credit notes raised in the year and post year end to assess the adequacy of the credit note provision and that revenue is not overstated: and Analytic sampling: Obtaining all journals posted to revenue and, using computer assisted audit techniques, analysing these to identify those with unusual attributes or those with corresponding postings to unexpected accounts.
Agreeing any journals identified back to relevant supporting documentation.
Our results: We found the amount of revenue recognised to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
84 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The risk Our response Recoverability of parent Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: companys investment The carrying amount of the Comparing valuations: comparing the carrying amount of the investment to the in subsidiary parent companys investment market capitalisation of the Group, as all of the Groups trading operations are 1,212.9 million: in subsidiary represents 73% contained within the subsidiary and its subgroup.
Its recoverability Refer to page 62 Our results : is not at a high risk of significant Audit Committee Report, We found the parent companys assessment of the recoverability of the investment misstatement or subject to page 92 accounting in subsidiary to be acceptable 2017 result: acceptable.
However, policy and page 128 due to its materiality in the financial disclosures.
context of the parent company financial statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall parent company audit.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 8.0m 2017: 8.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 210.8m 2017: 193.4m, of which it represents 3.8% 2017: 4.1%.
The materiality of the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 5.0m 2017: 5.0m, determined with reference to a benchmark of parent company net assets, of which it represents 0.4% 2017: 0.4%.
We reported to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.4m 2017: 0.4m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups four 2017: four reporting components, we subjected four 2017: four to full scope audits for Group purposes, all of which were performed by the Group audit team.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated below.
profit before tax Materiality Group revenue Group profit before tax 210.8m 2017: 193.4m 8.0m % % 8.0m 100% 100% Whole financial 100% 100% statements materiality 7.
5m Range of materiality at four components 0.2m7.
5m 0.4m Misstatements reported profit before tax to the Audit Committee Group materiality Group total assets % 100% 100% Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Auto Trader Group plc 85 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of AutoTrader Group plc only continued 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the the Directors statement that they consider that the Annual Report use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and understandable and provides the information necessary for Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months from shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, the date of approval of the financial statements: or business model and strategy: or if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 50 the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information 11provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified in the Annual Report by the Listing Rules for our review.
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance which we are required to report by exception conclusion thereon.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, in our opinion: consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that from branches not visited by us: or work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Strategic Report and Directors Report with the accounting records and returns: or Based solely on our work on the other information: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic are not made: or Report and the Directors Report: we have not received all the information and explanations we in our opinion the information given in those reports for the require for our audit.
financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and We have nothing to report in these respects.
in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the Viability statement page 38 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the Viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
86 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 7.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 83, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable Companys members those matters we are required to state to them the preparation of financial statements that are free from material in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to have formed.
liquidate the Group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Mick Davies Senior Statutory Auditor Auditors responsibilities for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Chartered Accountants financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 1 St Peters Square whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to Manchester issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high M2 3AE level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement 7 June 2018 when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at frc.
uk  Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience and through discussion with the Directors as required by auditing standards.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Auto Trader Group plc 87 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
