AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 84 Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of AVEVA Group plc Opinion In our opinion: AVEVA Group plcs Group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of AVEVA Group Plc which comprise: Group Parent company Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2018 Balance sheet as at 31 March 2018 Consolidated income statement for the year then ended Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year Related notes 1 to 9 to the financial statements including a summary then ended of significant accounting policies Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended Related notes 1 to 31 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 85 Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 3134 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on pages 3134 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on pages 3134 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on pages 3134 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Risk of inappropriate revenue recognition on software licence contracts, in particular: Inappropriate application of the group revenue recognition policy and IAS 18 Revenue for licence revenue recognition, could result in, for example, revenue being recorded when performance obligations have not been satisfied, incorrect deferral of revenue for support and maintenance and other obligations: and Inappropriate licence revenue recognition in relation to cut off, as revenue may not have been recognised in the correct accounting period, including the risk of possible manipulation of project margins by management through estimates to complete on Percentage of Completion PoC projects, particularly where progress as of year-end is greater than 10% and less than 90% complete.
Acquisition accounting, including determining whether the transaction meets the definition of a reverse acquisition based upon the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations and the audit of the judgements and assumptions applied by management to calculate the purchase price allocation and fair value adjustments to identifiable assets.
Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of seven components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further nine components.
The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 98% of adjusted Profit before tax 76% of Revenue and 91% of Total assets.
Materiality Overall Group materiality of 3.5m which represents 5% of adjusted pre-tax profit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 86 Independent Auditor's Report continued Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee Risk of inappropriate revenue We have reviewed and walked through the central process over the We conclude that revenue recognition on software licence approval and recognition of revenue contracts across the group.
recognised in the year, and contracts 499.1m 2017 deferred as at 31 March 432.8m We have walked through and assessed the design effectiveness of 2018, is materially correct on key management controls over data input and IT.
the basis of our procedures In particular, the risks are: performed both at group and Inappropriate application A summary of our key procedures are: by component audit teams.
of the group revenue recognition policy and IAS 18 We have performed licence revenue transaction testing at a local and Revenue for licence revenue group level to ensure that revenue has been recorded in accordance recognition, could result in, with the Groups revenue recognition policy and IAS 18 and has for example, revenue being been appropriately recorded in the current year income statement or recorded when performance deferred on the balance sheet as appropriate.
This was achieved by obligations have not been testing a sample of contracts by: satisfied, incorrect deferral agreeing licence revenues to signed contracts or software licence of revenue for support and agreements: maintenance and other agreeing the revenue to subsequent payment as evidence of obligations: and collectability: Inappropriate licence revenue checking evidence to support that software has been delivered to recognition in relation to customers and prior to revenue recognition: cut off, as revenue may not reviewing contract terms for any conditions that would impact the have been recognised in the timing of revenue recognition and in turn the completeness of correct accounting period, deferred revenue: including the risk of possible ensuring appropriate allocation of the fair value and recognition of manipulation of project revenue for other deliverables included within the contract: and margins by management assessing whether revenue has been recognised in line with the through estimates to Groups revenue recognition policy and IAS 18. complete on Percentage of Completion PoC projects, We selected a sample of revenue journals and assessed the particularly where progress appropriateness of the journal by checking to supporting evidence as of year-end is greater and ensuring compliance with the Groups revenue recognition than 10% and less than 90% policy and IAS 18.
The sample selected was based on risk based complete.
criteria including but not limited to manual journal entries, those close to period end and postings that are inconsistent with roles and Refer to the Audit Committee responsibilities.
Report page 52 : Accounting policies page 98 : and Note 2 We have performed an independent assessment as to whether the of the Consolidated Financial fair value rate of the support and maintenance is still applicable and Statements page 93. that any non-standard contracts have an appropriate fair value rate applied.
To validate our understanding of contractual terms with customers and to identify any contractual issues or any ongoing contractual obligations, we made enquiries of management outside the finance function, including the sales team and legal counsel to ensure that appropriate obligations and commitments had been recorded in the financial statements.
We have performed a test of detail on a sample of deferred revenue and accrued revenue items to ensure it is in accordance with the revenue recognition principles.
We have performed analytical review by revenue stream and geography to assess unexpected trends and patterns that could be indicative of incorrect revenue recognition.
We have performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue items booked either side of year end to ensure that licence revenue was only recognised for software in the period where the contract was signed by both AVEVA and the customer prior to year-end and the software has been made available prior to the year end.
For projects accounted for under Percentage of Completion PoC, we evaluated judgements made by the management regarding the expected costs to complete estimate and the timing and recognition of variation orders.
We also tested the cut-off of project costs.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 87 Key observations communicated to Risk Our response to the risk the Audit Committee We tested managements approach to project accounting, including projects acquired as a result of the Schneider transaction.
Where detailed procedures were performed by overseas teams, the primary team exercised oversight of the testing and performed additional testing of contracts over 5m or containing non-standard terms.
For related party transactions between Schneider Electric Software and the Schneider Electric Group, we obtained evidence that the performance obligations had been fulfilled and that they form part of the related party disclosures.
We performed full and specific scope audit procedures over this risk area in 15 locations, which covered 76% of the risk amount.
As a primary team, we also performed specified procedures over the revenue in 2 locations, which covered 3% of the risk amount.
Acquisition accounting We assessed whether managements judgement that the transaction We concluded that the transaction was properly On 1 March 2018, AVEVA Group was a reverse acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3, was the plc acquired the Schneider appropriate accounting treatment.
accounted for as a reverse acquisition in accordance Electric software business for 550m in cash, in exchange We reviewed managements accounting paper setting out how with IFRS 3, and fair value adjustments and Purchase for 60% of its fully diluted share the control criteria have been achieved and corroborated this to capital.
Judgement is required supporting evidence.
We also obtained the Purchase Price Allocation Price Allocation are materially correct.
in determining whether the PPA prepared by managements experts.
We read the sales and transaction meets the definition purchase agreement to check whether the terms and conditions of a reverse acquisition based of the transaction have accurately been reflected in the accounting upon the requirements of IFRS entries and managements Purchase Price Allocation.
We assessed the key information used in determining the purchase As the acquisition accounting price allocation including the discount rate, cash flow forecasts and is complex and the associated other prospective financial information and the useful lives assigned, balances are highly material, utilising our specialist support as necessary.
we have designated this as an audit risk in the current year.
As described in the Other matter paragraph below, the comparative The Group has calculated the information presented in these consolidated financial statements Purchase Price Allocation and is that of the acquired Schneider Electric software business.
We identified fair value adjustments obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the opening to identifiable assets.
The balances, including the selection and application of accounting identification and valuation of principles.
This included a review of Ernst & Young Audit France s working papers in connection with its assurance opinion on those intangibles is a judgemental area and involves a number of balances, under the Standards for Investment Reporting issued by the Auditing Practices Board in the United Kingdom.
In this review, management assumptions.
we considered whether further procedures were required to align with the requirements of ISAs UK.
We also performed procedures to compare the application of accounting principles and presentation with AVEVA Group plc.
Together with our valuation specialists we corroborated material opening net assets, fair value adjustments, and separately identifiable tangible and intangible assets, including adjustments necessary to align the accounting policies.
We assessed the tax methodology and rates applied by management when calculating the associated deferred tax adjustments arising from the acquisition accounting.
we read the disclosures within the annual report and accounts in relation to the business combination to establish whether they have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 88 Independent Auditor's Report continued Other matter As described in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group acquired the Schneider Electric Software business in the year and has accounted for the business combination as a reverse acquisition under IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
As a result, the comparative information in the consolidated financial statements is that of the Schneider Electric Software business and not of AVEVA Group plc.
That comparative information was reported on by Ernst & Young Audit France, under the Standards for Investment Reporting issued by the Auditing Practices Board in the United Kingdom, in an unqualified opinion.
We describe the work we performed on the comparative information in the Acquisition accounting section of Key audit matters above.
An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the group and effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business environment when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 68 reporting components of the Group, we selected 15 components covering entities within the UK, US, Canada, Germany, France, Korea, Brazil, China, India, Italy, and Australia which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 15 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of seven components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
For the remaining eight components specific scope components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures accounted for 98% 2017 65% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax, 76% 2017 87% of the Groups Revenue and 91% of the Groups Total assets.
For the current year, the full scope components contributed 64% 2017 66% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax, 62% 2017 75% of the Groups Revenue and 88% of the Groups Total assets.
The specific scope component contributed 34% 2017 1% loss of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax, 14% 2017 12% of the Groups Revenue and 3% of the Groups Total assets.
The audit scope of these components may not have included testing of all significant accounts of the component but will have contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the Group.
The coverage amounts quoted for the comparative period relate to the AVEVA Group plc audit, hence does not include the financial reporting impact of the reverse acquisition disclosed as part of Note 2.
Of the remaining 53 components that together represent 2% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax, none are individually greater than 1% of the Groups adjusted Profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation journals, intercompany elimination and foreign currency translation recalculation to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements.
The charts below illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Total Revenue Assets Full scope components 62% Full scope components 88% Specic scope components 14% Specic scope components 3% Other procedures 24% Other procedures 9% Changes from the prior year Following the reverse acquisition of the Schneider Electric Software business, the latters businesses in USA and Canada have been designated full scope components for this year and Italy, Australia, UK and Germany as specific scope.
For the current year we have designated the component in Sweden as review scope compared to specific scope in the comparative period, as part of our rotational scoping strategy.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 89 Involvement with component teams In establishing our overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, or by component auditors from other EY global network firms operating under our instruction.
Of the seven full scope components, audit procedures were performed on two of these directly by the primary audit team.
For the eight specific scope components, where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the appropriate level of involvement to enable us to determine that sufficient audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group as a whole.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits at least two 2017 two of the components each year.
During the current years audit cycle, visits were undertaken by the primary audit team to the component teams in US, Germany, France and Italy 2017 China, US and France.
These visits involved where appropriate, discussing the audit approach with the component team and any issues arising from their work, meeting with local and regional management, attending the planning meeting and closing meetings, reviewing key audit working papers on risk areas: and review of prior year working papers of Schneider Electric Software France.
The primary team interacted regularly with the component teams where appropriate during various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at Group level, gave us appropriate evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.5 million 2017 2.5 million, which is 5% 2017 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
We believe that materiality basis provides us with the most relevant measure of the underlying financial performance of the Group.
For 2018 we have used pre-tax profit adjusted for exceptional items 23.6 million.
For 2017 we have used pre-tax profit adjusted for restructuring costs 4.2 million and the refund on consideration on the 8over8 acquisition from shareholders 1.8 million.
We determined materiality for the Parent Company to be 2.0 million 2017 1.9 million, which is 2% 2017 2% of Total assets.
Profit before tax 46.9m Starting basis Exceptional items 23.6m Adjustments Adjusted pre-tax profit 70.5m Materiality of 3.5m 5% of materiality basis Materiality Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% 2017 75% of our planning materiality, namely 2.6 million 2017 1.9 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage to ensure that the total uncorrected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.4 million to 1.4 million 2017 0.4 million to 1 million.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 90 Independent Auditor's Report continued Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.18 million 2017 0.12 million, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 81, including Strategic Report and Governance Report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 81 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on page 52 the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 46 the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 91 Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to the specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety and data protection.
We understood how AVEVA Group plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management and legal counsel, oversight of those charged with governance i. e. considering the potential for override of controls or other inappropriate influence over the financial reporting process, such as efforts by management to manage earnings in order to influence the perceptions of analysts as to the entitys performance and profitability, the culture of honesty and ethical behaviour and whether a strong emphasis is placed on fraud prevention, which may reduce opportunities for fraud to take place, and fraud deterrence, which could persuade individuals not to commit fraud because of the likelihood of detection and punishment.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programmes and controls that the group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programmes and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and review of accounting estimates and judgements and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our procedures involved management enquiries, review of legal correspondences, journal entry testing and specific audit testing by full and specific scope teams.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 92 Independent Auditor's Report continued Other matters we are required to address We were appointed by the company on 7 July 2017 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is 16 years, covering the years ending 31 March 2003 to 31 March 2018.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company and we remain independent of the group and the parent company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee Marcus Butler Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Reading, United Kingdom 14 June 2018 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the AVEVA Group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
