Financial Report Independent auditors report to the members of The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of The Baillie Materiality: 8.75m Gifford Japan Trust PLC the Company for the year financial 1% of Total Assets ended 31 August 2018 which comprise the Income statements as a Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, whole the Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes, Risks of material misstatement including the accounting policies in note 1.
In our opinion the financial statements: Risk Carrying amount of listed equity give a true and fair view of the state of Companys investments affairs as at 31 August 2018 and of its return for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 30 November 2017.
This is the first year of engagement.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Company in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 31 Financial Report 2.
K Key ey a audit udit m ma atte tter: r: our our a as ss se es ss sm me ent nt of of r ris isk ks s of of m ma at te er ria ial l m mis iss st ta at te em me ent nt K Ke ey y a audi udit t ma mat tt ter ers s a ar re t e thos hose ma e mat tt ter ers s t tha hat t, i in n our our pr prof ofes ess siiona onall jjudgment udgment, w wer ere of e of mos most t s signi ignif fiic ca anc nce i e in n t the he a audi udit t of of t the he f fiina nanc nciia all s st tat atement ements s a and nd iinc ncllude ude t the mos he most t s siigni gnif fiic ca ant nt a as ss ses ess sed ed r riis sk ks s of of ma mat ter eriia all mi mis ss st ta at tement ement w whet hether her or or not not due t due to o f fr ra aud ud i ident dentiif fiied ed by by us us, iinc nclludi uding t ng thos hose e w whi hic ch h ha had t d the he gr grea eat tes est t ef eff fec ect t on: on: t the ov he over era allll a audi udit t s st tr ra at tegy egy: : t the a he alllloc oca at tiion of on of r res esour ourc ces es iin t n the a he audi udit t: : a and nd di dir rec ect tiing ng t the ef he eff fo ort rts s of of t the he enga engagement gement t tea eam.
m. W We s e summa ummar riis se e bel below ow t the k he key ey a audi udit t m ma atte tter r iin n a ar rr riiv viing a ng at t our our a audi udit t opi opini nion on a abov bove, e, t toget ogether her w wiit th h our our k key ey a audi udit t pr proc ocedur edures es t to a o addr ddres ess s th thiis s m ma atte tter r a an nd d, a as s r requi equir red ed f for or publ publiic c iint nter eres est t ent entiit tiies es, our our r res esul ult ts s f fr rom t om thos hose pr e proc ocedur edures es.. T Th hiis m s mat att te er r w was as a addr ddres ess sed ed, a and nd our our r res esul ult ts s a ar re e ba bas sed ed on pr on proc ocedur edures es under undert ta ak ken, en, i in t n the c he cont ontex ext t of of, a and nd s sol olel ely y f for or t the pur he purpos pose of e of, our our a audi udit t of of t the he f fiina nanc nciia all s st ta at tement ements s a as s a a w whol hole, e, a and nd iin f n for ormi ming ng our our opi opini nion on t ther hereon, eon, a and c nd cons onsequent equentlly y iis s i inc nciident denta all t to t o tha hat t opi opini nion, on, a and w nd we do e do not not pr prov oviide fide a a s sepa epar ra at te opi e opini nion on on on th thiis s m ma atte tter.
r. The The r ris isk k O Our ur r re es spons ponse e C Ca ar rr ry ying A ing Am mount ount of of L Low ow r ris isk k, high v high va alue lue: : Ou Our r pr proc ocedur edures es iinc nclluded uded:: L Lis ist te ed Equit d Equity y The C The Compa ompany ny s s por port tf fol oliio o of of lliis st ted equi ed equit ty y Te Tes st ts s of of D fide et ta ail: il: A Agr greei eeing ng t the v he va allua uat tiion on of of 100 per 100 per c cent ent of of Inv Inve es st tm me ent nts s iinv nves est tment ments s ma mak kes es up 96. up 96.3% 3% of of t the he iinv nves est tment ments s iin n t the por he port tf fol oliio o t to ex o ext ter erna nalllly y quot quoted ed pr priic ces es:: a and nd 842.
842.0 0 m millio illion n C Co om mp pan any ys t s to ot tal al asse asset ts s b by val y valu ue e an and d iis s Enquir Enquiry y of of c cus ust todia odians ns: : A Agr greei eeing 100 per ng 100 per c cent ent of of iinv nves est tment ment one of one of t the k he key ey dr driiv ver ers s of of r res esul ult ts s.. W We e do do hol holdi dings ngs i in n t the he por port tf fol oliio t o to o iindependen ndependent tlly y r rec ecei eiv ved ed t thi hir rd pa d par rt ty y R Ref efer er t to o pa page 26 ge 26 Au Aud diit t not not c cons onsiider der t thes hese e iinv nves est tment ments s t to o be a be at t c conf onfiir rma mat tiions ons f fr rom i om inv nves est tment ment c cus ust todi odia ans ns.... C Commi ommit tt tee R ee Repor eport t, , a a hi high gh r riis sk k of of s siigni gnif fiic ca ant nt mi mis ss st ta at tement ement, pa page 39 a ge 39 ac cc count ountiing ng or or t to o be s be subj ubjec ect t t to a o a s siigni gnif fiic ca ant nt llev evel el of of O Ou ur re r res su ullts ts pol poliic cy y a and nd pa page 42 ge 42 jjudgement udgement bec beca aus use t e they hey c compr ompriis se e lliiqui quid, d, W We f e found t ound the c he ca ar rr ry yiing ng a amount mount of of l liis st ted equi ed equit ty y i inv nves est tment ments s t to o f fiin nan anci cial al d diiscl sclo osu sur re es s quot quoted ed iinv nves est tment ments s.. H How owev ever er, due t due to o be a be ac cc cept epta abl ble.
e. t thei heir r ma mat ter eriia alliit ty y i in n t the c he cont ontex ext t of of t the he f fiina nanc nciia all s st ta at tement ements s a as s a a w whol hole, e, t they hey a ar re e c cons onsiider dered ed t to o be t be the a he ar rea ea w whi hic ch h ha had t d the he gr grea eat tes est t ef eff fec ect t on on our our ov over era allll a audi udit t s st tr ra at tegy egy a and a nd alllloc oca at tiion on of of r res esour ourc ces es iin n pl pla anni nning ng a and nd c compl omplet etiing our ng our a audi udit t.. 3.
O Our ur a applic pplica at tion of ion of m ma at te er ria ialit lity y a and nd a an ov n ove er rv vie iew w of of t the he s sc cope ope of of our our a audit udit M Ma at ter eriia alliit ty y f for or t the he f fiina nanc nciia all s st ta at tement ements s a as s a a w whol hole e w wa as s s set et a at t 8.
8.75m, 75m, det deter ermi mined ned w wiit th r h ref efer erenc ence e t to a o a benc benchma hmar rk k of of t tot ota all a as ss se et ts, s, o of f w whi hic ch h iit t r repr epres esent ents s 1% 1%.. W We a e agr greed t eed to o r repor eport t t to t o the A he Audi udit t C Commi ommit tt tee ee a any ny c cor orr rec ect ted or ed or unc uncor orr rec ect ted i ed ident dentiif fiied ed mi mis ss st ta at tement ements s ex exc ceedi eeding ng 437, 437,000, 000, iin a n addi ddit tiion on to to ot other her iident dentiif fiied ed mi mis ss st ta at tement ements s t tha hat t w wa ar rr ra ant nted r ed repor eport tiing ng on on qua qualliit ta at tiiv five gr e grounds ounds.. O Our ur a audi udit t of of t the C he Compa ompany ny w wa as s under undert ta ak ken t en to t o the ma he mat ter eriia alliit ty y llev evel el s spec peciif fiied a ed abov bove e a and w nd wa as s a allll per perf for ormed med a at t B Ba aiilllliie G e Giif ff for ord ds s o offi ffic ce i e in n E Edi dinbur nburgh.
T To ota tal l As Ass se ets ts M Ma ate teri ria alliity ty 874 874.5.
8.75m 75m W Whol hole f e fiina nanc nciia all s sta tate tem me en nts ts m ma ate teri ria alliity ty 437k 437k Tot Tota all A As ss set ets s Mi Mis ss st ta at tem ement ents s r repor eport ted ed t to o t the he a audi udit t c com omm miit tt tee ee 32 Annual Report 2018 Financial Report 4.2.
WK e ha ey a vudit e not m hing t atter: o our repor asts on going c essment of onc rise kr sn of material misst atetm he ent directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, WK e a ey re audi requi t ma red tter to sr a epor re tthos to y e ma ou if t:ters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements over what period they have done so and why they and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those considered that period to be appropriate, and their we have anything material to add or draw attention to which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the statement as to whether they have a reasonable in relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matter in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit expectation that the Company will be able to continue in financial statements on the use of the going concern procedures to address this matter and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
This matter was operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the period of their assessment, including any related may cast significant doubt over the Companys use of financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently is incidental to that opinion, and we do not disclosures drawing attention to any necessary that basis for a period of at least twelve months from provide a separate opinion on this matter.
the date of approval of the financial statements: or Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the the related statement under the Listing Rules set out The risk Our response Viability Statement.
on page 25 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Carrying Amount of Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: We have nothing to report in this respect.
Listed Equity We have nothing to report in these respects.
The Companys portfolio of listed equity Tests of Detail: Agreeing the valuation of 100 per cent of Corporate governance disclosures Investments investments makes up 96.3% of the investments in the portfolio to externally quoted prices: and We are required to report to you if: 842.0 million Companys total assets by value and is Enquiry of custodians: Agreeing 100 per cent of investment 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in one of the key drivers of results.
We do we have identified material inconsistencies between the holdings in the portfolio to independently received third party the Annual Report Refer to page 26 Audit not consider these investments to be at knowledge we acquired during our financial statements confirmations from investment custodians.. Committee Report, a high risk of significant misstatement, audit and the directors statement that they consider The directors are responsible for the other information page 39 accounting or to be subject to a significant level of Our results that the annual report and financial statements taken as presented in the Annual Report together with the financial policy and page 42 judgement because they comprise liquid, a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does We found the carrying amount of listed equity investments to financial disclosures quoted investments.
However, due to provides the information necessary for shareholders to not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do be acceptable.
their materiality in the context of the assess the Companys position and performance, not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated financial statements as a whole, they are business model and strategy: or below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
considered to be the area which had the the section of the annual report describing the work of Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in greatest effect on our overall audit the Audit Committee does not appropriately address doing so, consider whether, based on our financial strategy and allocation of resources in matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
statements audit work, the plia nf nni orng maa tind on t compl hereiet n iis ng our audit.
materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the work we have not identified material misstatements in the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code other information.
Our application of materiality and specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
an overview of the scope of our audit Strategic report and directors report We have nothing to report in these respects.
Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 8.75m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of Based solely on our work on the other information: which it represents 1%.
we have not identified material misstatements in the 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 437,000, in addition to strategic report and the directors report: which we are required to report by exception other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was all performed at Baillie Giffords office in the financial year is consistent with the financial to you if, in our opinion: Edinburgh.
statements: and adequate accounting records have not been kept, or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in returns adequate for our audit have not been received accordance with the Companies Act 2006. from branches not visited by us: or Total Assets Materiality Directors remuneration report 874.5m 8.75m the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Report to be audited has been properly prepared in 8.75m accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Whole financial certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified statements materiality by law are not made: or Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability we have not received all the information and Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial explanations we require for our audit.
statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: We have nothing to report in these respects.
the directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on page 9 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: 437k Total Assets Misstatements reported the principal risks disclosures describing these risks to the audit committee and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC 33 Financial Report 7.
R Ke ey spe audit ctiv e m ra ette spons r: our ibilit asie se sssment of risks of material missta 8. tem The ent purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities D Ke iry ec atudi orst r ma estpons ters a ibi re t litihos es e matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement This repor whet t is her ma or fide s not ol due t ely to t o fhe raud Compa ident ny ified s member by us, inc s, la udi s a ng t hose As explained more fully in their statement set out on page body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the 30, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matter in ar C riompa ving a ni t our es A a cudi t 2006. t opi ni Oon ur a abov udite, w tor oget k ha her s been with under our key tak a en udit financial statements, including being satisfied that they give procedures to address this matter and, as required for public interes sto t ent ha itti w ese mi, ourght res s ul tt as t e frtom t o the C hosompa e proc ny edur s member es.
This m s thos atte e r was a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in t ma he c tter ont s w exe a t of re r, and equi sol red ely t f o or st a the pur te to them pose of in a, our n audi audi tort s of the is necessary to enable the preparation of financial financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, r epor and c t a ons nd f equent or no ot ly her is inc pur ident posa e. l t To t o tha he f t opi ulni les on, t ex and w tent e do not statements that are free from material misstatement, provide a separate opinion on this matter.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Companys responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the The risk Our response report, or for the opinions we have formed.
going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend Carrying Amount of Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no Listed Equity realistic alternative but to do so.
The Companys portfolio of listed equity Tests of Detail: Agreeing the valuation of 100 per cent of Investments investments makes up 96.3% of the investments in the portfolio to externally quoted prices: and Auditors responsibilities 842.0 million Companys total assets by value and is Enquiry of custodians: Agreeing 100 per cent of investment Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about one of the key drivers of results.
We do holdings in the portfolio to independently received third party whether the financial statements as a whole are free from Refer to page 26 Audit not consider these investments to be at confirmations from investment custodians.. material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other John Waterson Senior Statutory Auditor Committee Report, a high risk of significant misstatement, irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor page 39 accounting or to be subject to a significant level of Our results in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level Chartered Accountants policy and page 42 judgement because they comprise liquid, of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit We found the carrying amount of listed equity investments to Saltire Court financial disclosures quoted investments.
However, due to be acceptable.
conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect 20 Castle Terrace their materiality in the context of the a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can Edinburgh financial statements as a whole, they are arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are EH1 2EG considered to be the area which had the considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they greatest effect on our overall audit 24 October 2018 could reasonably be expected to influence the economic strategy and allocation of resources in decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial planning and completing our audit.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Our application of materiality and Irregularities ability to detect an overview of the scope of our audit We identified areas of laws and regulations that could Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 8.75m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the which it represents 1%.
financial statements from our sector experience and We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 437,000, in addition to through discussion with the Directors, the manager and the other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
administrator as required by auditing standards.
Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was all performed at Baillie Giffords office in We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly Edinburgh.
affect the financial statements, including financial reporting including related company legislation as well as the Companys qualification as an Investment Trust under UK tax legislation, any breach of which could lead to the Total Assets Materiality Company losing various deductions and exemptions from 874.5m 8.75m UK corporation tax.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
8.75m Whole financial We communicated identified laws and regulations statements materiality throughout our team, which included individuals with experience relevant to those laws and regulations, and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nondetection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
437k Total Assets Misstatements reported to the audit committee 34 Annual Report 2018
