Strategic report Governance Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of BAE Systems plc only 5.
We reviewed KPMGs 2017 audit work papers Opinion Summary of our audit approach and met with relevant partners and senior staff In our opinion: Key audit matters from KPMG to further our understanding of the The key audit matters that we identified the financial statements of BAE Systems plc predecessor auditors approach: inthecurrent year were: theParent company and its subsidiaries 6.
We attended key management and contract theGroup give a true and fair view of the state revenue and margin recognition onlong-term meetings throughout the 2018 financial year of the Groups and of the Parent companys affairs contracts: across the business to deepen our understanding as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit valuation of goodwill: and of BAE Systems key contract judgements and for the year then ended: valuation of retirement benefit obligations.
continue to develop our understanding of the the Group financial statements have been These key audit matters were also identified by the business and audit risks: and properly prepared in accordance with International Groups auditor in the prior year, KPMG.
In May 2018 a second global workshop was Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted they also identified key audit matters in relation to heldwith senior members of our global Group by the European Union: tax accruals and deferred tax assets, and, with respect and component teams as part of our audit the Parent company financial statements have to the Parent company, amounts relating to Group planning, in order to further develop our audit been properly prepared in accordance with United affiliates.
We did not consider these matters to have strategy and deep dive into certain areas of Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and ouraudit approach.
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 consequently on the allocation of resources or the This transition process helped us build an Reduced Disclosure Framework: and engagement teams audit efforts in the current year.
understanding of the Group, which, in turn, the financial statements have been prepared Materiality informed our risk assessment process and inaccordance with the requirements of the The materiality that we used for the Group financial identification of the risks of material misstatement Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the statements was 70m, which was determined on to the Groups financial statements.
Groupfinancial statements, Article 4 of the the basis of adjusted profitbefore tax on continuing We presented our proposed audit plan to the IASRegulation.
operations asdefined on page 138 below.
Our AuditCommittee in June 2018 and re-confirmed materiality equates to 4.7% of adjusted profit We have audited the financial statements the scope, significant risks andaudit approach before taxand 5.7% of profit before tax.
Scoping the consolidated income statement: 18 components were subject to audit.
Ofthese, Conclusions relating to going concern, the consolidated and Parent company statement sixwere subjected to a full-scope audit whilst principal risks and viability statement of comprehensive income: theremaining 12 were subject to an audit of Going concern the consolidated and Parent company statements specified account balances.
These components We have reviewed the directors statement of changes in equity: giveus audit coverage of 89% of revenue and intheBasis of Preparation on page 142 to the the consolidated and Parent company balance 88%of profit before tax.
financial statements about whether they considered sheets: First year audit transition it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of the consolidated cash flow statement: and We developed a detailed audit transition plan, accounting in preparing themand their identification designed to deliver an effective transition from of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the related notes 1 to 38, including the associated theGroups predecessor auditor, KPMG.
Our Parent companys ability to continue to do so over accounting policies.
transition activities were performed across the aperiod of at least twelve months from the date The financial reporting framework that has been Groups business units and included, but were not ofapproval of the financial statements.
applied in the preparation of the Group financial limited to, meeting with management across all We considered as part of our risk assessment the statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted business units, obtaining an understanding of the nature of the Group, its business model and related by the European Union.
The financial reporting Groups system of internal control and evaluating risks including, where relevant, the impact of the framework that has been applied in the preparation the Groups accounting policies and areas of applicable political and economic environments of the Parent company financial statements is accounting judgement.
including Brexit, the requirements of the applicable applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting The key transition activities included financial reporting framework and the system Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure butwerenotlimited to the following: ofinternal control.
We evaluated the directors Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted assessment of the Groups ability to continue 1.
In May 2017 we established a detailed Accounting Practice.
asagoing concern, including challenging the audittransition plan in conjunction with Basis for opinion underlying data and key assumptions used to BAE Systems management, including setting makethe assessment, and evaluated the directors We conducted our audit in accordance with keymilestone dates to monitor transition plans for future actions in relation to their going International Standards on Auditing UK progress.
This was monitored with concern assessment.
ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities managementon at least a monthly basis: under those standards are further described in We are required to state whether we have anything 2.
On 1 October 2017 we confirmed our theauditors responsibilities for the audit of the material to add or draw attention toin relation to independence to the Audit Committee financial statements section of our report.
that statement required byListing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 andcommenced our audit planning in and report if the statement is materially inconsistent We are independent of the Group and the relationtothe 2018 audit: with ourknowledge obtained in the audit.
Parentcompany in accordance with the ethical 3.
In October 2017, a global transition workshop requirements that are relevant to our audit of We confirm that we have nothing material to report, was held with senior members of our Group thefinancial statements in the UK, including the add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
andglobal component audit teams in order Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical todevelop our audit strategy.
Senior members Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, ofclient management also participated in and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities thisworkshop: in accordance with these requirements.
We shadowed KPMG throughout the 2017 that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs year-end audit and attended key audit meetings.
Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group This included, but was not limited to, attendance orthe Parent company.
at the business unit year-end audit close We believe that the audit evidence we have meetings in January 2018 and the Audit obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide Committee meeting in February 2018 where abasis for our opinion.
thefinal report on the audit was presented: BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 135 Independent Auditors report continued Principal risks and viability statement Revenue and margin recognition How the scope of our audit responded Based solely on reading the directors statements onlong-termcontracts tothekey audit matter and considering whether they were consistent with Our contract testing approach included: Refer to page 84 Audit Committee report, note 1 the knowledge we obtained in the course of the accounting policy and financial disclosure and note 37 Testing the relevant controls forIFRS 15 restatement disclosure audit, including the knowledge obtained in the We assessed the design and implementation evaluation of the directors assessment of the Revenue: and, where deemed appropriate, tested the Groups and the Parent companys ability to 16,821m 2017 restated 17,224m operating effectiveness of key controls within continue as a going concern, we are required to managements Lifecycle Management LCM state whether we have anything material to add Key audit matter description Framework and project accounting processes ordraw attention to in relation to: The estimation of both overall lifetime contract which management have established to ensure margin and the appropriate level of revenue and the disclosures on pages 68 to 71 that describe that contracts are appropriately managed, profit to recognise in any single accounting period theprincipal risks and explain how they are being challenged and accounted for.
require the exercise of management judgement.
managed or mitigated: As part of this we observed the controls in Within BAE Systems contract portfolio there are the directors confirmation on page 81 that operation by attending a sample of project anumber of programmes where the estimates theyhave carried out a robust assessment of contract status review meetings, Quarterly required in reaching these judgements are highly theprincipal risks facing the Group, including Business Review meetings and Group-level complex and could lead to a material error within those that would threaten its business model, meetings to validate the various levels of the financial statements if reached incorrectly.
future performance, solvency or liquidity: or challengeapplied to the contracts.
Consequently, we consider that revenue and margin the directors explanation on page 81 as to how Challenging managements assumptions recognition represents a significant risk to our audit they have assessed the prospects of the Group, andestimates and a key audit matter.
This risk is further heightened over what period they have done so and why they To gain assurance over the contract judgements in 2018 owing to it being the first year that the consider that period to be appropriate, and their andestimates made, our work included: businesses will be required to account for the statement as to whether they have a reasonable contracts under IFRS 15.
The standard has a making enquiries of contract project teams and expectation that the Group will be able to continue numberof judgements that the Group is required other personnel to obtain an understanding of in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due toapply to its contracts, including the identification theperformance of the project throughout the over the period of their assessment, including any of performance obligations and estimation of the year and at year-end: related disclosures drawing attention to any amount of consideration to be recognised.
analysing historical contract performance and necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We focus a greater proportion of audit effort on understanding the reason for in-year movements We are also required to report whether the anumber of contracts where we consider there to or changes: directors statement relating to the prospects be the highest degree of management judgement testing the underlying calculations used in oftheGroup required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 required, and design contract specific tests and thecontract assessments for accuracy and ismaterially inconsistent with our knowledge procedures to mitigate the associated risks.
completeness, including the estimated costs obtained in the audit.
In order to identify the key contracts over which tocomplete the contract: We confirm that we have nothing material to report, there is a significant risk of material misstatement, examining external correspondence to support add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
we undertook a contract risk assessment process thetimeframe for delivery of the product or ateach component, utilising the latest contract Key audit matters service and any judgements made in respect information and our understanding of the business.
Key audit matters are those matters that, inour ofthese: We held meetings with key finance and contract professional judgement, were of mostsignificance examining external evidence to support contract managers, attended Quarterly Business Reviews in our audit of the financial statements of the status and recoverability of receivables, such as andother key management meetings, read and current period and include the most significant customer correspondence and for certain understood underlying contract documentation assessed risks of material misstatement whether or contracts, meeting with the customer directly: andreviewed management support for key not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters contractjudgements from both a qualitative enquiring with in-house and external legal counsel included those that had the greatest effect on: the andquantitative perspective.
In addition we regarding contract-related litigation and claims: overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in lookedfor contracts that might have higher levels using Deloitte subject matter experts to provide the audit: and directing the efforts of the ofjudgement associated with the risk of schedule support in evaluating specific contract judgements engagement team.
delivery or technical complexity, fixed price contracts taken: and These matters were addressed in the context of our which increase the risk of contract losses and other considering whether there were any indicators audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in indicators that could increase the risk of a material ofmanagement override of controls or bias in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide impact on the financial statements.
arriving at their reported position.
As a result of our risk assessment we identified Assessing the impact of IFRS 15 anumber of contracts where we consider there In respect of ensuring that the Group tobe the highest degree of management isappropriately applying IFRS 15 we: judgement required.
These are: reviewed and challenged managements Astute Class submarines: accounting papers on the impact of the transition: Queen Elizabeth Class QEC aircraft carrier: reviewed and challenged managements updated Offshore Patrol Vessel OPV : accounting policies manual: Saudi Salam Typhoon Salam : embedded IFRS 15 considerations in our contract Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme review work, in particular determining whether SBDCP : and management had appropriately considered the Radford Nitrocellulose plant.
existence of performance obligations and elements of variable consideration: and reviewed the Annual Report disclosures.
BAE Systems 136 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key observations we evaluated and challenged underlying Restatement The results of our testing were satisfactory.
assumptions and cash flows, including forecast During the year, management identified an error revenue and cost assumptions, withreference inrelation to the treatment of asset collateral on Through our testing of significant risk contracts tothe recent and historical performance of longevity swaps that impacted previously reported wedid not identify any audit adjustments and theAICGU, external industry benchmarks asset values of the Groups pension schemes.
It was consider the judgements made by management andspecific forecast events.
This included determined that the prior year asset values had been inrecognising revenue and profit to be balanced.
performing sensitivity analysis to evaluate overstated by 108m leading to a corresponding Our testing of the remaining population identified theimpact of changing a range of assumptions understatement of the net retirement benefit certain immaterial audit adjustments but we including suppressed growth and changes in obligation as at 31 December 2017.
Given the size conclude overall that the judgements made by thediscount rate: ofthe adjustment, the Group has restated the 2017 management are reasonable.
comparatives as described in note 37. we tested the integrity of managements impairment model used to derive the Valuation of goodwill How the scope of our audit responded recoverableamount: and tothekey audit matter Refer to page 84 Audit Committee report and note 8 accounting policy and financial disclosures we involved Deloitte valuation specialists to Liabilities support our challenge of the applicable discount Goodwill: In relation to the retirement benefit obligation rate and other assumptions.
10,239m 2017 9,996m wehave performed the following procedures: Key observations we obtained a detailed understanding and Key audit matter description We completed our audit of the forecasts of the performed walkthroughs of managements The Group holds material goodwill balances AIbusiness and are satisfied that managements process, with specific focus on assessing the relatingto UK and overseas acquisitions, the assumptions are reasonable and supportable based design and implementation of key controls majority of which are in the US.
Management on available evidence, both internal and external.
relating to the valuation of the retirement performs an impairment review of the carrying value benefitobligation: of each Cash-Generating Unit CGU on an annual Valuation of retirement benefit obligations in conjunction with Deloitte actuarial specialists, basis in line with the requirements of IAS 36.
Refer to page 84 Audit Committee report and note 22 we challenged the assumptions used in the IAS 19 The impairment assessment involves management accounting policy and financial disclosures valuation, including assessing and challenging judgement in considering whether the carrying Groups share of the net IAS 19 deficit: thereasonableness of the assumptions against value of the cash-generating units is recoverable and 3,932m 2017 4,022m available market data and benchmarking hence we considered this to be a key audit matter.
againsttheir peers: and Valuation of retirement benefit scheme assets: Determining the recoverable amount involves 25,653m 2017 26,883m we assessed the objectivity, independence significant estimation including: andcompetence of the actuaries engaged Valuation of retirement benefit scheme liabilities: forecasting future cash flows: bymanagement to perform the valuations 29,889m 2017 31,237m determining the discount rate: and oftheschemes.
Key audit matter description Assets The principal retirement benefit schemes are held We performed audit procedures relating to the In planning our audit, we determined there to be inthe UK and US and are funded defined benefit assets held within the pension schemes through asignificant risk in relation to the valuation of the schemes, with assets held in separate trusteeseeking third party confirmation from asset Applied Intelligence AI CGU which has a carrying administered funds.
managers and or custodians or other supporting value of 257m, including goodwill of 237m, at evidence as appropriate.
Our work has included We identified the following areas which were the 31December 2018.
In 2017, the Group recorded reviewing publicly available information on these focus of our procedures in auditing the Groups net agoodwill impairment charge of 384m in relation assets, comparing to internal benchmarks and retirement benefit obligations as a key audit matter: to this CGU.
Given the goodwill is now held at reconciling inputs used by management to fairvalue based on forecast future cash flows, Liabilities determine the asset values.
smallchanges in assumptions could trigger The key judgements relating to the retirement GMP equalisation furtherimpairment.
benefit obligations include inflation assumptions, In conjunction with Deloitte actuarial specialists, discount rates and mortality assumptions applied Through our risk assessment we determined wechallenged the methodology and assumptions toits members.
Given the significant size of the thatthe key drivers of future growth in AI are applied by management to estimate the impacts deficit at year-end, small changes to these input theGovernment and Technology & Commercial ofGMP equalisation in the current year.
assumptions can lead to large changes in the divisions.
As a result, we have performed additional valuation.
Assumptions are also made in the Restatement procedures over the revenue and cost assumptions determination of the Groups share of assets We audited managements restatement of the in these divisions.
andliabilities of multi-employer schemes in which 2017financial statements for the prior year error How the scope of our audit responded itparticipates and the corresponding amounts identified and are satisfied with the treatment tothekey audit matter attributed to other participating employers.
We have performed a series of specific audit Assets Disclosure procedures to address the key audit matter Given the size of the scheme assets there We also audited the disclosures made in the2018 identified in relation to the AICGU.
This included issignificant audit effort required in ensuring financial statements for compliance withIAS 19. the following: thevaluation of assets is supportable.
Key observations we obtained a detailed understanding GMP equalisation We have completed our audit work in line with ofmanagements process for identifying During the year, the High Court ruled that theprocedures outlined above.
Overall we consider indicators of impairment and for performing companies are required to equalise Guaranteed the discount rate and other key pension assumptions theCGU impairment assessment.
As part of Minimum Pensions GMPs between men and used by management in calculating the retirement thiswe assessed the design and implementation women.
Previously, the Group made no allowance benefit obligation to be within our independently of the key controls.
Specific focus was given in the accounting liabilities for GMP equalisation developed reasonable range.
The Groups tounderstanding managements process and andtherefore for 2018 the Group is required to approachto estimating the impacts of GMP controls over forecasting future cash flows estimate the impact of equalising GMP payments.
equalisation was also considered to be reasonable anddetermination of the key assumptions This was estimated to be 114m.
Given the high and in line with market practice.
We concluded asdetailed above: level of estimation required in determining the ourtesting of the assets and are satisfied they impact of GMP and the size of the Groups deficit areappropriately valued.
this has also been considered a key audit matter inthe period.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 137 Independent Auditors report continued Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of areasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
Weuse materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and inevaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole asfollows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 70m 2017 55m 38.5m 2017 32m Basis for determining 4.7% of adjusted profit before tax of 1,484m.
This includes adjustment for non-recurring Materiality has been set with materiality items of 154m see note 1, impairment of intangible assets of 33m see note 8 and fair reference to the net assets of value and foreign exchange adjustments on financial instruments and investments of 73m theParent company.
The predecessor auditor determined materiality using 4.9% of Group profit before taxation.
Rationale for the Adjusted profit before tax from continuing operations was considered to be the most relevant This represents 0.9% of the Parent benchmark applied benchmark as it is considered the most stable and comparable profit metric.
The adjustments company net assets.
In addition, we excluded relate to items that are considered one-off in nature or relate to complex financial consider the materiality of the Parent instrument valuations, which are volatile and not reflective of the underlying performance company in the context of the Group ofthe business.
materiality and have capped this at 55% of that of the Group.
We consider the measure suitable having also considered the other relevant benchmarks: ourmateriality equates to 5.7% of profit before tax and 1.2% of netassets.
We consider net assets the key benchmark used by members of The increase in the materiality is driven by the increase in profit before tax and adjusted theParent company in assessing profitbefore tax.
Adjusted Group profit before tax materiality Component 1,484m 70m materiality range 38.5m to 18m Audit Committee reporting threshold 3.5m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excessof 3.5m 2017 3m, as well as differences below thatthreshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified whenassessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the audit scope Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an profitbefore tax to be financially significant, ofmaterial misstatement in specific balances within understanding of the Group and its environment, andrequiring a full-scope audit.
In addition, we the financial statements.
Accordingly, we have including Group-wide controls, and assessing the haveused our knowledge of the business obtained directed component auditors to perform an audit audit risks.
This exercise has considered the relative throughout transition and as part of our risk ofspecified account balances and additional size of each reporting units contribution to revenue, assessment procedures to assess where else we analytical procedures on the respective income profit before tax and adjusted profit before tax, consider it appropriate to perform a full-scope statements and balance sheets for these alongside further financial or contractual risks which audit.
This resulted in full-scope audits for six components.
For all in-scope components, whether we consider to be present.
In doing this, we also business units located in the UK, Saudi Arabia designated financially significant or subject to an considered the impact of the reorganisation of andthe US, as well as the Groups largest joint audit of specified account balances, revenue was reporting lines in the business to ensure that we venture, MBDA.
determined to be in scope for the audit.
have appropriate coverage across the new Additionally our audit planning identified For all other reporting units not included in segments, as well as the Group as a whole.
12non-financially significant components, located full-scope or audit of specified account balance We have considered units that contribute more in the UK, Saudi Arabia, Australia and the US, where scope, we performed centrally-directed analytical than10% of the Groups revenue or adjusted weconsider there to be a reasonable possibility review procedures.
The scope of our work gives us coverage over the following proportions of the total Group results: Review at a Review at a Review at a Group level Group level Group level Full audit Full audit Full audit scope scope scope 11% 12% 17% 89% 63% 6 6% specified account balances profit Revenue Net assets before tax 17% specified account balances 25% BAE Systems 138 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements As each of the business units maintains separate Other information Responsibilities of directors financial records, we have engaged component The directors are responsible for the other As explained more fully in the directors auditors from the Deloitte member firms in the information.
The other information comprises responsibilities statement, the directors are US, UK, Saudi Arabia and Australia to perform theinformation included in the Annual Report, responsible for the preparation of the financial procedures at all the wholly-owned components otherthan the financial statements and our statements and for being satisfied that they give under our direction and supervision.
This approach auditors report thereon.
atrue and fair view, and for such internal control also allows us to engage local auditors who have asthe directors determine is necessary to enable Our opinion on the financial statements does appropriate knowledge of local regulations to thepreparation of financial statements that are notcover the other information and, except perform the audit work, under a common Deloitte freefrom material misstatement, whether due totheextent otherwise explicitly stated in our audit approach.
report, we do not express any form of assurance In respect of MBDA, we have engaged with the conclusionthereon.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors entitys non-Deloitte auditor to perform a full-scope are responsible for assessing the Groups and the In connection with our audit of the financial audit under our direction and supervision.
Parent companys ability to continue as a going statements, our responsibility is to read the other We have issued detailed instructions to the concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related information and, in doing so, consider whether component auditors, directed and supervised togoing concern and using the going concern theother information is materially inconsistent theirwork through a number of visits to each basisof accounting unless the directors either intend withthe financial statements or our knowledge ofthecomponent auditors during the transition, to liquidate the Group or the Parent company or obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to planning and performance stages of our audit, tocease operations, or have no realistic alternative bematerially misstated.
alongside frequent remote communication and but to do so.
If we identify such material inconsistencies review of their work.
orapparent material misstatements, we are Auditors responsibilities for the audit Our oversight of component auditors focused on requiredto determine whether there is a material ofthe financial statements the planning of their audit work and understanding misstatement in the financial statements or a Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance of their risk assessment process to identify key areas material misstatement of the other information.
about whether the financial statements as a whole of estimates and judgement, as well as the execution If, based on the work we have performed, we are free from material misstatement, whether due of their audit work in line with our Group-issued conclude that there is a material misstatement to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report referral instructions.
All teams were involved in our ofthis other information, we are required to that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance transition workshops and other transition activities reportthat fact.
isahigh level of assurance, but is not a guarantee as outlined on page 135, which were overseen and In this context, matters that we are specifically thatan audit conducted in accordance with directed by the Group audit team.
Weare satisfied required to report to you as uncorrected material ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement that the level of involvement of theGroup audit misstatements of the other information include when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud partner and team in the component audits has been where we conclude that: or error and are considered material if, individually or extensive and has enabled us to conclude that in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected Fair, balanced and understandable sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been to influence the economic decisions of users taken thestatement given by the directors that obtained in support of our opinion on the Group on the basis of these financial statements.
theyconsider the annual report and financial financial statements as a whole.
statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and Details of the extent to which the audit was The BAE Systems, Inc. business units in the US understandable and provides the information considered capable of detecting irregularities, aresubject to a Department of Defense Special necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups including fraud are set out below.
Security Arrangement SSA, which is a government position and performance, business model and A further description of our responsibilities for requirement setting out specific protocol that strategy, is materially inconsistent with our theaudit of the financial statements is located foreign-controlled companies must comply with in knowledge obtained in the audit: or onthe FRCs website at: www.
uk order to be able to undertake government defence Audit Committee reporting the section .
As part of this there is restriction on the describing the work of the Audit Committee does partof our auditors report.
flow of information outside of the US.
Therefore, not appropriately address matters communicated forthe US components there are restrictions around by us to the Audit Committee: or access to the audit file and specific workpapers fornon-US nationals.
As such we have designed Directors statement of compliance with the alternative procedures, including involvement of UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of anadditional independent US national partner, the directors statement required under the Listing toensure that appropriate oversight of the Rules relating to the Groups compliance with the UScomponent team is obtained.
UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in In addition to the work performed at a component accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not level, at Group level we have audited the properly disclose a departure from a relevant consolidation process and carried out analytical provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
procedures over the residual financial information ofthe remaining components not subject to audit We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
oraudit of specified account balances.
At a Group level we also perform audit procedures on centrally held balances including treasury, retirement benefit obligations, goodwill, tax, head office costs and litigation and claims.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 139 Independent Auditors report continued Audit response to risks identified Extent to which the audit was Matters on which we are required As a result of performing the above, we identified consideredcapable of detecting toreport by exception revenue and margin recognition on long-term irregularities, including fraud Adequacy of explanations received contracts as a key audit matter.
The key audit andaccounting records We identify and assess the risks of material matters section of our report explains the matters Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required misstatement of the financial statements, whether inmore detail and also describes the specific toreport to you if, in our opinion: due to fraud or error, and then design and perform procedures we performed in response to the audit procedures responsive to those risks, including we have not received all the information and keyaudit matter.
obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and explanations we require for our audit: or In addition to the above, our procedures to respond appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
adequate accounting records have not been to risks identified included the following: Identifying and assessing potential keptby the Parent company, or returns adequate reviewing the financial statement disclosures risksrelated to irregularities for our audit have not been received from andtesting of supporting documentation to In identifying and assessing risks of material branches not visited by us: or assess compliance with relevant laws and misstatement in respect of irregularities, including the Parent company financial statements are regulations discussed above: fraud and non-compliance with laws and notin agreement with the accounting records regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee andreturns.
and in-house legal counsel concerning actual enquiring of management, internal legal We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
andpotential litigation and claims: counsel, internal audit and the Audit Committee, Directors remuneration including obtaining and reviewing supporting performing analytical procedures to identify Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also documentation, concerning the Groups policies anyunusual or unexpected relationships that required to report if in our opinion certain and procedures relating to: mayindicate risks of material misstatement disclosures of directors remuneration have not been duetofraud: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws made or the part of the directors remuneration and regulations and whether they were aware reading minutes of meetings of those charged report to be audited is not in agreement with the of any instances of non-compliance: with governance, reviewing internal audit reports accounting records and returns.
and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
and whether they have knowledge of any obtaining a detailed understanding of and actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and performing process walkthroughs in relation Other matters tothe Groups process for engaging third the internal controls established to mitigate Auditor tenure partiesto support business development: risksrelated to fraud or non-compliance Following the recommendation of the Audit withlaws and regulations, including obtaining in addressing the risk of fraud through Committee, we were appointed by the members an understanding of the Groups bribery & management override of controls, testing on10 May 2018 to audit the financial statements corruption and whistleblowing policies: theappropriateness of journal entries and for the year ending 31 December 2018 and otheradjustments: discussing among the engagement team, subsequent financial periods.
The period of total including significant component audit teams assessing whether the judgements made uninterrupted engagement including previous andinvolving relevant internal specialists, inmaking accounting estimates are indicative renewals and reappointments of the firm is including tax, valuations, pensions and IT ofapotential bias: and therefore one year.
specialists regarding how and where fraud evaluating the business rationale of any Consistency of the audit report with the mightoccur in the financial statements and  that are unusual additional report to the Audit Committee anypotential indicators of fraud.
As part of oroutsidethe normal course of business.
Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional thisdiscussion, weidentified potential for fraud report to the Audit Committee we are required to We also communicated relevant identified laws inrelation to thelevel of judgement involved provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
andregulations and potential fraud risks to all inestimating coststo complete on long-term engagement team members including internal contracts and thesubsequent impact on Use of our report specialists and significant component audit teams revenueand marginrecognition: and This report is made solely to the Parent companys and remained alert to any indications of fraud or obtaining an understanding of the legal and members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 non-compliance with laws and regulations regulatory frameworks that the Group operates of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit throughout the audit.
in, focusing on those laws and regulations that work has been undertaken so that we might state had a direct effect on the financial statements, to the Parent companys members those matters Report on other legal and regulatory including the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, weare required to state to them in an auditors requirements pension and taxation legislation.
In addition, owing report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Opinions on other matters prescribed to the sector the Group operates in, we considered extent permitted by law, we do not accept or bytheCompanies Act 2006 laws and regulations that had a fundamental assume responsibility to anyone other than In our opinion the part of the directors effect on the operations of the Group, including theParent company and the Parent companys remuneration report to be audited has been inrespect of export controls, defence contracting members as a body, for our audit work, for this properly prepared in accordance with the and anti-bribery and corruption legislation.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Theseareas were identified through enquiries In our opinion, based on the work undertaken with directors, management and legal counsel, inthecourse of the audit: our knowledge and understanding of the Group the information given in the strategic report accumulated throughout the audit and our andthe directors report for the financial year sector-specific experience.
forwhich the financial statements are prepared isconsistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report John Adam havebeen prepared in accordance with applicable Senior Statutory Auditor legal requirements.
For and on behalf of In the light of the knowledge and understanding Deloitte LLP ofthe Group and of the Parent company and their Statutory Auditor environment obtained in the course of the audit, wehave not identified any material misstatements London, United Kingdom in the strategic report or the directors report.
20 February 2019 BAE Systems 140 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Financial statements Group accounts Preparation 142 18.
Assets and liabilities of disposal groupsclassified as held for sale 175 Consolidated income statement 144 19.
Geographical analysis of assets 176 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 145 20.
Loans and overdrafts 176 Consolidated statement 21.
Trade and other payables 177 of changes in equity 145 22.
Retirement benefits 178 Consolidated balance sheet 146 23.
Provisions 189 Consolidated cash flow statement 147 24.
Share capital and other reserves 190 1.
Movement in assets and liabilities 3.
Employees 155 arising from financing activities 193 4.
Trade, other and contract receivables 170 35.
Other financial assets and liabilities 171 36.
Events after the reporting period 205 14.
Cash and cash equivalents 175 Company accounts Company statement of comprehensive income 212 Company statement of changes in equity 212 Company balance sheet 213 Notes to the Company accounts 214 Group accounting policies Accounting policies are included within therelevant note to the Group accounts.
