FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BAKKAVOR GROUP PLC We have audited the Financial Statements REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF Basis for opinion which comprise:  We conducted our audit in accordance withInternational Standards on Auditing The consolidated income statement: In our opinion: UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our The consolidated statement of The Financial Statements of Bakkavor responsibilities under those standards comprehensive income and expense: Group Plc the Parent Company and its arefurther described in the auditors The consolidated and Parent Company subsidiaries the Group give a true and responsibilities for the audit of the statements of financial position: fair view of the state of the Groups and financialstatements section of our report.
The consolidated and Parent Company of the Parent Companys affairs as at We are independent of the Group and the statements of changes inequity: 29December 2018 and of the Groups Parent Company in accordance with the profit for the period then ended: The consolidated cash flow statement: and ethical requirements that are relevant The Group Financial Statements have The related Notes 1 to 40 of the toour audit of the financial statements in been properly prepared in accordance Consolidated Financial Statements the UK, including the Financial Reporting with International Financial Reporting andNotes 1 to 10 of the Parent Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard Standards IFRSs as adopted by the CompanyFinancial Statements.
asapplied to listed public interest entities, European Union: and we have fulfilled our other ethical The financial reporting framework that has The Parent Company Financial been applied in the preparation of the Group responsibilities in accordance with Statements have been properly prepared theserequirements.
We confirm that financial statements is applicable law and in accordance with United Kingdom IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
thenon-audit services prohibited by the Generally Accepted Accounting FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided The financial reporting framework that Practice including Financial Reporting hasbeen applied in the preparation of the tothe Group or the Parent Company.
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Parent Company Financial Statements Framework: and We believe that the audit evidence we have isapplicable law and United Kingdom obtained is sufficient and appropriate to The Financial Statements have Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 provide a basis for our opinion.
beenprepared in accordance with Reduced Disclosure Framework therequirements of the Companies Act UnitedKingdom Generally Accepted 2006and, as regards the Group financial Accounting Practice.
statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current period were: Valuation of the Groups accruals for customer deductions The risk of impairment of tangible and intangible assets in the US These are the same key audit matters as we identified in the prior year.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements was 4.8 million, which was determined on the basis of adjusted profit before tax.
Scoping Our Group audit scope has been designed to focus on the risks identified across the Group with audit procedures covering 100% of adjusted profit before tax, 78% of net assets and 74% of revenue.
Our work has included carrying out audit procedures at 9 components out of 20 components identified across the Group.
Significant changes There have been no significant changes to our audit approach in the current year.
com 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND THE VIABILITY STATEMENT Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material We have reviewed the Directors statement in Note 2 to the Financial Statements about to report, add or draw attention to in respect whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in of these matters.
preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from thedate of approval of the Financial Statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the Directors assessment of the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the Directors plans for future actions in relation totheir going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
We confirm that we have nothing material Principal risks and viability statement to report, add or draw attention to in respect Based solely on reading the Directors statements and considering whether they of these matters.
wereconsistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the Directors assessment of the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: The disclosures on pages 25 to 29 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: The Directors confirmation on page 93 that they have carried out a robust assessment ofthe principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or The Directors explanation on page 93 as to how they have assessed the prospects of theGroup, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the Directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
96 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of the Groups accruals for customer deductions Key audit matter The Group provides incentives to customers in the form of volume-related rebates, marketing and promotional description funding, discounts or lump sum incentives customer deductions.
As described in the accounting policies, these are treated as a reduction in revenue.
The customer deduction arrangements with customers are accounted for atboth site and at Group level.
The site level arrangements have limited complexity and do not require significant judgement.
However, Group level accruals for customer deductions that cover multiple sites and product categories are more complex.
Accruals are made under these arrangements based on how likely it is that the criteria set out in the arrangement will be met and may rise as a proportion of sales as higher quantities are sold.
There is complexity in the accruals for customer deductions that gives rise to management judgement and scope for fraud and error in the accounting for these balances.
Judgement is required in estimating the expected level of rebates for the rebate year, driven by the forecast sales volumes and ongoing negotiations with the Groups customers.
There is also judgement over the contractual relationships that the Group has with its customers.
Further details are included in the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 69 as they are considered a significant judgement and the Accounting Policies in Notes 2 and 3 to the Financial Statements.
How the scope The following procedures have been designed and performed in order to respond to the key matter outlined above: of our audit We assessed the design and implementation of controls over the customer deduction process, including the responded to the process for matching amounts accrued with amounts claimed by the customer: key audit matter We reviewed correspondence with the customers and minutes of meetings held: We assessed the adequacy of the accruals made in the current period by reviewing the agreements with customers and determining whether the accrual has been calculated using the terms and conditions of the relevant arrangements or latest status of customer negotiations: We assessed the appropriateness of forecasts made by management that underpin the calculation of the accruals: We retrospectively reviewed the historical accuracy of the accruals made and compared to amounts subsequently settled: and We assessed the disclosures of these arrangements in the Financial Statements.
Key observations Whilst we identified prudence in the Groups estimation methodology for amounts to be accrued, we concurred with management that the revenue recognition approach in the Financial Statements was appropriate.
com 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED The risk of impairment of tangible and intangible assets in the US Key audit matter The Group has goodwill of 650.2 million 2017: 647.2 million, as set out in Note 13 to the Financial Statements.
description The Group has one cash-generating unit grouping CGU grouping, International US only, where reasonably possible changes in financial performance could result in impairment.
At 29 December 2018 the Group recognised goodwill and intangibles of 51.1 million and tangible assets of 57.1 million in relation to this CGU grouping.
The US CGU grouping has a relatively low level of headroom and the highest sensitivity to changes in the underlying assumptions.
Further details are included in Note 13.
The key audit matter identified is in respect of managements judgements in relation to the value in use calculation for the cash-generating unit grouping to which the assets relate.
Specifically the key audit matter is focused on the underlying assumptions used in determining the recoverable value of the assets such as discount rates, growth rates and longer-term financial performance.
These items are all subjective and could lead to an impairment charge if incorrect.
This matter has been identified by management within the Audit and Risk Committee report on page 69 and disclosed as a critical accounting judgement within Note 3 to the Financial Statements.
How the scope of The following procedures have been designed and performed in order to assess the reasonableness of the key our audit assumptions and the estimates of future cash flows for the underlying business: responded to the We assessed the design and implementation of controls over the intangible and tangible fixed asset impairment key audit matter review process: We used internal valuation experts to determine whether managements discount rate is appropriate: We agreed long-term growth rates used in the impairment review to external sources of evidence: We performed sensitivity analysis by reducing cash inflows and increasing the discount rate: and We assessed the disclosures relating to the impairment review in the Financial Statements.
Key observations Whilst we identified differences between the rates used by management in the impairment review compared tothose suggested by our internal valuation specialists and other sources of evidence, we concluded that the differences were not significant and would not have resulted in any impairment.
We obtained sufficient assurance that the underlying assumptions for the US CGU grouping are reasonable and supportable at the assessment date and therefore concur with managements conclusions that no impairment should be recognised.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Financial Statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Parent Company Financial Statements Materiality 4.8 million 2017: 4.5 million 4.6 million 2017: 4.3 million Basis for determining materiality 5% of adjusted profit before tax Determined on the basis of 2% 2017: 2% 2017: 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
ofnet assets and capped at 95% 2017: 95% of Group materiality.
Adjusted profit before tax is defined as profit before tax adjusted for other items.
Rationale for the benchmarkapplied We consider that a profit benchmark is The Parent Company is non-trading appropriate in determining materiality and acts as a holding company and giveninvestor focus on the performance of therefore we believe that net assets the business.
We have used adjusted profit istheappropriate benchmark.
before tax as the benchmark which reflects the underlying performance of the business and reduces the risk of volatility.
98 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report We agreed with the Audit and Risk representing 16% 2017: 10% of net assets Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining Committee that we would report to the and 11% 2017: 6% of revenue.
anunderstanding of the Group and its Committee all audit differences in excess environment, including Group-wide We identified 20 2017: 21 components of0.24 million 2017: 0.23 million, as well controls, and assessing the risks of thatmake up the Group, and the Group as differences below that threshold that, in material misstatement at the Group level.
engagement team carried out audit our view, warranted reporting on qualitative Based on that assessment, we focused procedures at nine 2017: nine of these grounds.
We also report to the Audit and ourGroup audit scope primarily on the components.
Review procedures were Risk Committee on disclosure matters that auditwork at nine components.
completed at an additional two 2017: one we identified when assessing the overall components by component auditors.
At the Groups head office we tested presentation of the Financial Statements.
theconsolidation process and carried Our audit work has included the use of outanalytical procedures to confirm our AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE twocomponent auditors.
We planned and assessment that there were no significant OF OUR AUDIT reviewed the component auditors work, risks of material misstatement of the issuing instructions to them and evaluating Our Group audit scope has been designed remaining components not subject to the results of the work performed: this to focus on the risks identified across auditor review procedures.
included a visit to one of the components the Group with audit procedures covering during the period and a review of 100% 2017: 83% of adjusted profit before documentation as appropriate.
In addition, review procedures covered components OTHER INFORMATION The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises We have nothing to report in respect the information included in the Annual Report other than the Financial Statements and our ofthese matters.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we arerequired to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work wehave performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the Directors that they consider the Annual report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
com 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED the Group.
The key laws and regulations RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT we considered in this context included WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF As explained more fully in the Directors the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, responsibilities statement, the Directors DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, pensions legislation, tax legislation areresponsible for the preparation of the INCLUDING FRAUD andhealth and safety legislation.
Financial Statements and for being satisfied We identify and assess the risks of material that they give a true and fair view, and for misstatement of the Financial Statements, Audit response to risks identified such internal control as the Directors whether due to fraud or error, and then design As a result of performing the above, we determine is necessary to enable the and perform audit procedures responsive identified valuation of the Groups accruals preparation of Financial Statements that tothose risks, including obtaining audit for customer deductions as a key audit are free from material misstatement, evidence that is sufficient and appropriate matter.
The key audit matters section of whether due to fraud or error.
our report explains the matter in more In preparing the Financial Statements, the detail and also describes the specific Identifying and assessing potential Directors are responsible for assessing the procedures we performed in response Groups and the Parent Companys ability to risks related to irregularities to that key audit matter.
continue as a going concern, disclosing as In identifying and assessing risks of material In addition to the above, our procedures applicable matters related to going concern misstatement in respect of irregularities, to respond to risk identified included and using the going concern basis of including fraud and non-compliance with thefollowing: accounting unless the Directors either laws and regulations, our procedures intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent included the following: Reviewing the Financial Statement Company or to cease operations, or have disclosures and testing to supporting Enquiring of management, internal norealistic alternative but to do so.
documentation to assess compliance auditand the Audit and Risk Committee, with relevant laws and regulations including obtaining and reviewing AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES discussed above: supporting documentation, concerning FOR THE AUDIT OF THE Enquiring of management, the Audit the Groups policies and procedures FINANCIALSTATEMENTS andRisk Committee and in-house relating to: andexternal legal counsel concerning Our objectives are to obtain reasonable identifying, evaluating and complying actual and potential litigation and claims: assurance about whether the Financial with laws and regulations and whether Statements as a whole are free from Performing analytical procedures they were aware of any instances material misstatement, whether due to toidentify any unusual or unexpected ofnon-compliance: fraud or error, and to issue an auditors relationships that may indicate risks detecting and responding to the report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable ofmaterial misstatement due to fraud: risksof fraud and whether they have assurance is a high level of assurance, but Reading minutes of meetings of those knowledge of any actual, suspected is not a guarantee that an audit conducted charged with governance, reviewing or alleged fraud: and in accordance with ISAs UK will always internal audit reports and reviewing the internal controls established detect a material misstatement when it correspondence with HMRC: and tomitigate risks related to fraud exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud In addressing the risk of fraud through ornon-compliance with laws or error and are considered material if, management override of controls, andregulations: individually or in the aggregate, they could testingthe appropriateness of journal Discussing among the engagement team reasonably be expected to influence the entries and other adjustments: assessing including significant component audit economic decisions of users taken on whether the judgements made in making teams and involving relevant internal thebasis of these Financial Statements.
accounting estimates are indicative of a specialists, including tax, valuations, potential bias: and evaluating the business Details of the extent to which the audit was pensions and IT regarding how and rationale of any significant transactions considered capable of detecting irregularities, where fraud might occur in the Financial that are unusual or outside the normal including fraud, are set out below.
Statements and any potential indicators course of business.
As part of this discussion, A further description of our responsibilities weidentified potential for fraud in We also communicated relevant identified for the audit of the Financial Statements thevaluation of the Groups accruals laws and regulations and potential fraud is located on the FRCs website at: forcustomer deductions: and risks to all engagement team members www.
Obtaining an understanding of the legal andsignificant component audit teams This description forms part of our and regulatory frameworks in which the including internal specialists, and remained AuditorsReport.
Group operates, focusing on those laws alert to any indications of fraud or nonand regulations that had a direct effect on compliance with laws and regulations the Financial Statements or that had a throughout the audit.
fundamental effect on the operations of 100 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial period for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and The Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have nothing to report in respect Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records ofthese matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The Parent Company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect ofthese matters.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records andreturns.
OTHER MATTERS Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Auditor tenure in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 11 December Companys members those matters we are required to state to 2017to audit the Financial Statements for the period ending them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest 30December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members reappointments of the firm to the Company is two years, covering asa body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the periods ending on 30 December 2017 and 29 December 2018. wehave formed.
Prior to our appointment to the Company we have been the auditor of the Group headed by Bakkavor Holdings Limited.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 14 years, covering the periods ending 31 December 2005 to 29 December 2018.
WILLIAM SMITH MA FCA SENIOR STATUTORY AUDITOR Consistency of the audit report with the additional For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Statutory Auditor Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the London, United Kingdom Audit and Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance 5 April 2019 with ISAs UK.
