104 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc 1 Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Balfour Beatty plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise theGroup Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group Statement of Changes in Equity, Company Statement ofChanges in Equity, Group Statement of Cash Flows, Group and Company Balance Sheets, and the related notes, including the accountingpolicies in Note 2.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted bythe European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Overview Materiality: Group financial 10.0m 2017: 10.0m statements as a whole 5.8% 2017: 6.4% of normalised Group profit before tax from continuing operations Coverage Group profit before tax: Full scope audits 87% 2017: 95% Specified audit procedures 13% 2017: 5% Risk of material misstatement vs 2017 Recurring risks Contract accounting Recoverability of Group goodwill and of the parent Companys investment in subsidiaries New risks The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union on our audit Going concern assessment Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit and Risk Committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 19 May 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the three financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 105 2 Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response The impact of uncertainties due to the UK exiting the European Union on our audit Risk vs 2017: Refer to pages 58-66 principal risks and page 67 viability statement Unprecedented levels of uncertainty We developed a standardised firm-wide approach to the consideration All audits assess and challenge the reasonableness of estimates, of the uncertainties arising from Brexit in planning and performing our inparticular as described in recoverability of goodwill below, and audits.
Our procedures included: related disclosures and the appropriateness of the going concern Our Brexit knowledge we considered the Directors assessment basis ofpreparation of the financial statements see below.
All of of Brexit-related sources of risk for the Groups businessand financial these depend on assessments of the future economic environment resources compared with our own understanding of the risks.
We andtheGroups future prospects and performance.
considered the directors plans to take action to mitigate therisks.
In addition, we are required to consider the other information Sensitivity analysis when addressing going concern and presented in the Annual Report including the principal risks disclosure Recoverability of Group goodwill and of the parent Companys and the viability statement and to consider the Directors statement investment in subsidiaries and other areas that depend on forecasts, that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is we compared the Directors analysis to our assessment of the fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information fullrange of reasonably possible scenarios resulting from Brexit necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and uncertainty and, where forecast cash flows are required to be performance, business model and strategy.
discounted, considered adjustments to discount rates for the levelofremaining uncertainty: and Brexit is one of the most significant economic events for the UK Assessing transparency as well as assessing individual andat the date of this report its effects are subject to unprecedented disclosures as part of our procedures on going concern and levels of uncertainty of outcomes, with the full range of possible recoverability of Group goodwill and of the parent Companys effects unknown.
investment in subsidiaries we considered all of the Brexit related disclosures together, including those in the strategic report, comparing the overall picture against our understanding of the risks.
Our findings As reported under going concern and recoverability of Group goodwill and of the parent Companys investment in subsidiaries, we found the resulting estimates and related disclosures of recoverability of Group goodwill and of the parent Companys investment in subsidiaries and disclosures in relation to going concern to be acceptable.
However, no audit should be expected to predict the unknowable factors or all possible future implications for a company and this is particularly the case in relation to Brexit.
com AR2018 106 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc continued The risk Our response Contract accounting 6,290 million 2017: 6,606 million Risk vs 2017: Refer to pages 82-84 Audit and Risk Committee report, Note 2.4 Principal accounting policies Revenue recognition, Note 2.27 a Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, Note4 Revenue and Note 25 Provisions Subjective estimate Using a variety of quantitative and qualitative criteria, we selected a sample of contracts to assess and challenge the most significant and For the majority of its contracts, the Group recognises revenue complex contract estimates.
We obtained the detailed project review overtime andmeasures the progress based on the input method papers from the Group to support the estimates made and challenged byconsidering the proportion ofcontract costs incurred for the the judgements underlying those papers with senior operational, workperformed to the balance sheetdate, relative to the commercial and financial management.
In this area our audit estimatedtotal forecast costs of the contract at completion.
procedures included: The recognition of revenue and profit therefore relies on estimates Historical comparisons: evaluating the financial performance inrelation to the forecast total costs of each contract.
Cost ofcontracts against budget and historical trends: contingencies may also be included in these estimates to take Site visits: visiting sites related to certain higher risk or larger value account of specific uncertain risks, or disputed claims against contracts, with the involvement of our industry specialists forsome theGroup, arising within each contract.
These contingencies are of these visits, inspecting the physical progress onsite forindividual reviewed by the Group on a regular basis throughout the contract projects and identifying areas of complexity through observation lifeand adjusted where appropriate.
anddiscussion with site personnel: The revenue on contracts may also include variations and claims, Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the Groups judgement which fall under either the variable consideration or contract in respect of forecast contract out-turn, contingencies, settlements modification requirements of IFRS 15.
These are recognised on a and the recoverability of contract balances via agreement to post contract-by-contract basiswhen evidence supports that it is highly year end third party certifications and confirmations and with probable that a significant reversal in the amount of revenue reference to our ownassessments, historical outcomes and recognised will not occur.
In certain circumstances recoveriesfrom industrynorms: insurers are also assumed when these recoveries are deemed to Customer correspondence scrutiny: analysing correspondence with customers around variations and claims to challenge the bevirtually certain.
estimates of claims and variations made by the Group: The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, Legal correspondence scrutiny: analysing correspondence with wedetermined that contract revenue and other related contract lawyers, and other legal opinions including arbitration results or other balances have a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a legal advice obtained by the group, around variations and claims: potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality Insurer correspondence scrutiny: analysing correspondence for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times withinsurers around recognised insurance claims to challenge thatamount.
The financial statements Note 2.27 a disclose the managements position taken on the contract, and inquiring nature and extent of the estimates and judgements made by directlywith external legal counsel on the prospects of recovery: theGroup.
Test of detail: analysing the end of job forecasts on contracts tested and challenging the estimates within the forecasts by considering the amounts already procured, the amounts still tobeprocured, the site and time related cost forecasts against programme and run rates, and any contingency held: Test of detail: inspecting selected contracts for key clauses: identifying relevant contractual mechanisms such as pain gain shares, design bonuses, liquidated damages and success fees andassessing whether these key clauses have been appropriately reflected in the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Our sector experience: using our sector experience to assess whether the amounts recognised in the financial statements resulting from the estimates and assumptions made represent abalanced view of the risks and opportunities pertinent to the contract working capital positions: Our sector experience: considering whether provisions againstcontracts sufficiently reflect the level of risk by challengingthe Groups judgement in this area with reference toourown assessments: and Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groupsdisclosures including those included in Note 2.27 a aroundthe nature of estimates and judgements.
Our findings: We considered the amount of revenue and associated profits recognised to be acceptable.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 107 The risk Our response Recoverability of Group goodwill and of the parent Companys investment in subsidiaries Risk vs 2017: Group: 851 million 2017: 825 million : parent Company: Amount within total investment in subsidiaries balance of 1,706 million 2017: 1,700 million Refer to pages 82-84 Audit and Risk Committee report, Note 2.12 Principal accounting policies Goodwill, Note 2.27 d Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and Note 14 Goodwill Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: There is a risk that the goodwill allocated to cash generating units Assessing methodology: considering the consistency and CGUs and the parent Companys investment in subsidiaries are not appropriateness of the allocation of businesses and related goodwill recoverable and should be impaired.
Due to the inherent uncertainty balances into CGUs: involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, which are Sensitivity analysis: performing our own sensitivity analysis, the basis of the assessment of recoverability, this is one of the key including a reasonably possible reduction in assumed growth rates judgement areas for our audit.
and margins to identify areas on which to focus our procedures, including the consideration of the possible impacts of Brexit: Our risk relates to the goodwill within the Construction Services Our sector experience: considering the underlying assumptions in andSupport Services segments and to the parent Companys determining the cash flows and growth assumptions applied with investment in BalfourBeatty Investment Holdings Ltd. reference to historical forecasting accuracy, current order book, The Group annually carries out an impairment assessment of andwider macro environment conditions: goodwillusing a value-in-use model which is based on the net Our valuation expertise: challenging the assumptions used by present value of the forecast earnings of the CGU.
This is calculated theGroup in the calculation of the discount rates, including using certain assumptions arounddiscount rates, growth rates and comparisons with external data sources: and cash flow forecasts.
Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Groups disclosures including disclosure of sensitivity of the outcome of The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, theimpairment assessment to changes in key assumptions wedetermined that the value in use assessment has a high degree of appropriately reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of goodwill.
estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes We also considered the adequacy of the parent Companys greater than our materiality for the financial statements asa whole.
disclosures in respect of the investments in subsidiaries.
The financial statements Note 14 and 2.27 d disclose the nature and extent of the estimates and judgements made by the Our findings: Group.
We considered the Groups assessment of the recoverability of goodwill inthe Group and the parent Companys investment in subsidiaries to beacceptable.
com AR2018 108 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc continued The risk Our response Going concern assessment Risk vs 2017: Refer to pages 82-84 Audit and Risk Committee report and Note 1 Basis of accounting Disclosure quality Our procedures included: The financial statements explain how the Board has formed a Assessment of cash flow model: assessing the Groups cash flow judgement that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis model to identify key inputs for further enquiry.
The key inputs are ofpreparation for the Group and Company.
consistent with those identified in the goodwill impairment testing identified above.
Assessing the resultant cash flow projection as That judgement is based on an evaluation of the inherent risks to anindication of whether the Group would have sufficient resources theGroups and Companys business model and how those risks to continue to operate and meet obligations as they fall due: might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or Historical comparisons: evaluating historical forecasting accuracy abilityto continue operations over a period of at least a year from ofkey inputs including revenue and operating margins: thedate of approval of the financial statements.
Sensitivity analysis: reviewing sensitivity analysis of the forecasts The risks most likely to adversely affect the Groups and toa number of variable factors including the possible impact of Companysavailable financial resources over this period were : Brexit, such as impacting revenue, margin and cash, to identify whether reasonably plausible adverse scenarios could have an The impact of Brexit on the Groups supply chain, including impact on liquidity: and availability of labour, reduction in payment terms and possible Assessing transparency: evaluating the adequacy of the Groups costinflation: and disclosures in respect of going concern.
Reduction of demand in the Buildings market reducing future revenue and increasing competition which may put pressure Our findings onmargins.
We found the disclosures included in Note 1 made by the Directors tobe acceptable.
There are also less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the erosion of customer or supplier confidence, which couldresult in a rapid reduction of available financial resources.
The risk for our audit was whether or not those risks were such thatthey amounted to a material uncertainty that may have cast significant doubt about the ability to continue as a going concern.
Hadthey been such, then that fact would have been required to havebeen disclosed.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 109 3 Our application of materiality and reporting component to address the audit risks not Scoping and coverage anoverview of the scope of our audit covered by the work performed over the shared The materiality for the Group financial statements as a service centre.
Group revenue whole was set at 10.0 million 2017: 10.0 million, The Group audit team instructed component auditors, determined with reference to the benchmark of and theauditors of the shared service centre, as to the Group profit before tax from continuing operations significant areas to be covered, including the relevant of123 million normalised to exclude one-off risks detailed above and the information to be reported orexceptional items in the year as disclosed in back.
The Group team approved the component Note10, but excluding the charge relating to the materialities, which ranged from 1.5 million to amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
85% 9.0 million, having regard to the mix of size and profile Our materiality represents 5.8% 2017: 6.4% of of the Group across the components.
The work on 10 normalised profit before tax of 173 million of the Groups 16 components was performed by the 2017: 156 million.
The Group team performed component auditors.
Specified risk-focused procedures procedures on the items excluded from normalised on 3 components, audit of the parent company, Group Group profit before tax.
Full scope audit 85% consolidation work and procedures on the items 2017: 98% Due to the volatility in the Groups results inrecent excluded from normalised Group profit before tax were Specic risk-focused 15% financial years, as part of our materiality assessment performed by the Group audit team.
audit procedures we also considered the scale of the business, the 2017: 2% In 2018, the Group audit team visited 10 components level of judgement and precision within the Groups in the United Kingdom, United States and Hong Kong key accounting judgements, as well as how the level 2017: 9 components.
This included a number of visits Group profit before tax of materiality compares to other relevant benchmarks to the United States.
In addition, telephone conference such as revenue, of which it represents 0.2% and meetings were held with these component auditors.
total assets, ofwhich it represents 0.2%, where they At these visits and meetings, the findings reported to provide more consistent measures year onyear than the Group audit team were discussed in detail.
We report to the Audit and Risk Committee any 4 We have nothing to report on goingconcern corrected and uncorrected identified misstatements The Directors have prepared the financial statements 87% exceeding 0.5 million 2017: 0.5 million in addition on the going concern basis as they do not intend to to other identified misstatements that warrant liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their reporting on qualitative grounds.
operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means Materiality for the parent Company financial that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that Full scope audit 87% statements as a whole was set at 9.0 million there are no material uncertainties that could have 2017: 95% 2017: 9.0 million, determined with reference to a cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a Specic risk-focused 13% benchmark of Company total assets, of which it audit procedures going concern for at least a year from the date of represents 0.23% 2017: 0.27%.
2017: 5% approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Of the Groups 16 reporting components 2017: 16, 9 were subject to an audit for Group reporting purposes Our responsibility is to conclude on the Group total assets 2017: 11 and 7 2017: 5 to specified risk-focused audit appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, procedures.
The components for which we performed had there been a material uncertainty related to going specified risk-focused procedures were not individually concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
financially significant enough to require an audit for However, as we cannot predict all future events or Group reporting purposes, but did present specific conditions and as subsequent events may result in individual risks that needed to be addressed.
For three outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that components, the specified audit procedures were 88% were reasonable at the time they were made, the performed over revenue, and other contract accounting absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this related balances, including costs, contract assets and auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and liabilities and any contract provisions.
For one the Company will continue in operation.
component procedures were performed over costs We identified going concern as a key audit matter and lease classification one component and another Full scope audit 88% see section 2 of this report.
Based on this work, we inventory one component and another on cash one 2017: 94% are required to report to you if: component.
The components within the scope of our Specic risk-focused 12% work accounted for 100% 2017: 100% of Group audit procedures we have anything material to add or draw attention 2017: 6% revenue, 100% 2017: 100% of Group profit before tax to in relation to the Directors statement in Note 1 and 100% 2017: 100% of Group total assets as to the financial statements on the use of the going illustrated right.
concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over The Group operates one shared service centre in the Group and Companys use of that basis for a Newcastle, United Kingdom, the outputs of which are period of at least twelve months from the date of included in the financial information of the reporting approval of the financial statements: or components it services.
Therefore it is not a separate reporting component.
The service centre is subject to the related statement under the Listing Rules set specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly out on page 54 is materially inconsistent with our the testing of transaction processing and review audit knowledge.
Additional procedures are performed at each We have nothing to report in these respects.
com AR2018 110 Independent auditors report to the members of Balfour Beatty plc continued 5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Corporate governance disclosures Annual Report We are required to report to you if: The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in we have identified material inconsistencies between the the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, andthe Directors statement that they consider that the annual accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly report and financialstatements taken as a whole isfair, balanced stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
and understandable andprovides the information necessary Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, forshareholders toassess the Groups position and performance, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the business modeland strategy:or information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the the section of the annual report describingthe workof the Audit financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that Committee does not appropriately addressmatters communicated work we have not identified material misstatements in the by ustothe Audit and Risk Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Strategic report and Directors report Statement does notproperly disclose a departure from theeleven Based solely on our work on the other information: provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report: We have nothing to report in these respects.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in the Companies Act 2006. our opinion: Directors remuneration report adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the from branches not visited byus: or Companies Act 2006. the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements with the accounting records and returns: or audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are relation to: notmade: or the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on page we have not received all the information and explanations we 67 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal require for our audit.
risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: We have nothing to report in these respects.
the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining 7 Respective responsibilities how they are being managed and mitigated: and Directors responsibilities the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 87, the have assessed theprospects of the Group, over what period they Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial have done so and why they considered that period to be statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in the preparation of financial statements that are free from material operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due overthe period of misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, attention toany necessary qualifications or assumptions.
as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going Under the Listing Rules we are required toreview the viability concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we Auditors responsibilities cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a Groups and the parent Companys longer-term viability.
high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 111 A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs 8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our website at www.
responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Irregularities ability to detect accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from Companys members those matters we are required to state to them our general commercial and sector experience, and through in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent discussion with the Directors and other management as required by permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a legal correspondence and discussed with the Directors and other body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with have formed.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level.
Paul Sawdon Senior Statutory Auditor The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor statements varies considerably.
Chartered Accountants Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect 15 Canada Square the financial statements including financial reporting legislation London including related company legislation, distributable profits legislation, E14 5GL and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the 12 March 2019 related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: health and safety, anti-bribery, employment law, environmental law, regulatory capital and liquidity and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the financial nature of the Groups activities and its legal form.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
Through these procedures, we identified actual or suspected non-compliance and considered the effect as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
The identified actual or suspected non-compliance was not sufficiently significant to our audit to result in our response being identified as a key audit matter.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nondetection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
