The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Opinion We have audited the financial statements of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 October 2018 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Financial Position, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 24, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion, the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the Companys affairs as at 31 October 2018 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report below.
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern and viability statement We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the annual report set out on page 28 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 36 in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 55 in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: whether the directors statement in relation to going concern required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or the directors explanation set out on page 29 in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Inaccurate recognition of investment income including the risk of management override of controls.
Valuation and existence of the investment portfolio including the current asset investment in the Deutsche Global Liquidity Series Fund.
Materiality Overall materiality of 10.62m 2017: 10.78m which represents 1% of net assets.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
46 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit Committee Inaccurate recognition of investment We performed the following procedures: The results of our income 30.32m 2017: 29.45m procedures identified no We obtained an understanding of BNP Paribas Securities issues with the accuracy or As described on page 45 in the Report of Services the Administrator or BNP processes and completeness of income the Audit Committee and as per the controls for the recognition of investment income by receipts.
accounting policy set out on page 56. performing walkthrough procedures and reviewing the Administrators internal control reports.
There were no material As can be seen in note 3 in the notes to the special dividends received financial statements, the Company has We agreed a sample of 70 dividends received from the during the year.
reported investment income of 30.32 underlying financial records to an independent pricing million 2017: 29.45 million.
This includes source and to the bank.
Based on the work special dividend income of 0.53m 2017: performed, we have no We agreed all accrued dividends at the period end to post 1.08m.
year-end bank statements and to an independent source for For special dividends the Company validation of existence.
assesses income received and then We selected a sample of 25 investments from the Companys determines whether amounts should be valuation report, checked to an independent source for any credited to the revenue or capital columns of dividends declared by those securities and agreed the the Statement of Comprehensive Income recognition of such dividends to the income report.
based on the underlying substance of the transaction.
We identified no special dividends that were individually above our testing threshold.
We therefore performed a We focus on the recognition of revenue and review of a sample of one special dividend which its presentation in the financial statements represents 0.12m of the 0.53m total.
For this dividend because the revenue return is a key area of we assessed the appropriateness of the accounting focus for shareholders.
treatment by reference to publicly available information.
All special dividends were treated as revenue.
To address the risk of management override, we tested a sample of manual journal entries posted to the income account during the year, and around the year-end.
Valuation and existence of the We performed the following procedures: The results of our investment portfolio including the procedures, of the listed We obtained an understanding of the Administrators current asset investment in the investment portfolio assets, processes and controls for the valuation of investments by Deutsche Global Liquidity Series Fund identified no material error performing walkthrough procedures and reviewing the in the pricing or As described on page 45 in the Report of Administrators internal control report.
We agreed all of the quoted investment holding prices at Based on the work The investment portfolio at the year-end the year-end to a relevant independent source.
performed, we have no comprised of quoted equities 1,087.03m For the current asset investment in the Deutsche Global matters to report.
2017: 1,101.37m and a current asset Liquidity Series Fund we agreed the holding to the investment in the Deutsche Global Liquidity depositary confirmation, as well as agreeing the valuation of Series Fund 18.01m, 2017: 23.25m.
the investment to an independent pricing source.
The investment portfolio at the year-end also The unquoted investment was found to be immaterial.
This investment is below We checked all the foreign exchange rates applied to an our reporting threshold.
The valuation of the assets held in the We agreed the number of shares held for each security to a investment portfolio is the key driver of the confirmation of legal title received from the Companys Companys net asset value and investment custodian and depositary BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Incorrect asset pricing or a failure to maintain proper legal title of assets by the Company could have a significant impact on portfolio valuation and, therefore, the return generated for shareholders.
47 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued An overview of the scope of our audit Tailoring the scope Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for the Company.
This enables us to form an opinion on the financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Company and effectiveness of controls, including controls and changes in the business environment, when assessing the level of work to be performed.
We have performed a full scope audit of the Company.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Company to be 10.62m 2017: 10.78m, which is 1% 2017: 1% of net assets.
We have derived our materiality calculation based on a proportion of net assets as we consider it to be the most important financial metric on which shareholders would judge the performance of the Company.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and found no reason to alter the basis of calculation used at the year-end.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Companys overall control environment, our judgment was that performance materiality was 75% 2017: 75% of our planning materiality, namely 7.97m 2017: 8.08m.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage due to our past experience of the audit that indicates a lower risk of misstatements, both corrected and uncorrected.
Given the importance of the distinction between revenue and capital for the Company we have also applied a separate testing threshold of 1.36m 2017: 1.38m for the revenue column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income, being 5% of the return before taxation.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.53m 2017: 0.54m, which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report set out on pages 1 to 45 and pages 73 to 76, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: 48 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 36 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting set out on pages 44 to 45 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on pages 39 to 43 the parts of the Directors Statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or directors report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 36, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.
49 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC continued Our approach was as follows: Other matters we are required to address We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory We were appointed by the Company on 17 November 2016 to frameworks that are applicable to the Company and determined audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 October 2016 that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the Listing and subsequent financial periods.
We were re-appointed to audit Rules, the UK Corporate Governance Code and section 1158 of the financial statements on 25 July 2018. the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous We understood how The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is renewals and re-appointments is three years, covering the years complying with those frameworks through discussions with the ending 31 October 2016 to 31 October 2018.
Audit Committee and Corporate Secretary and review of the The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard Companys documented policies and procedures.
were not provided to the Company and we remain independent We assessed the susceptibility of the Companys financial of the Company in conducting the audit.
statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the occur, by considering the key risks impacting the financial Audit Committee statements.
We identified a fraud risk with respect to management override in relation to inappropriate revenue Use of our report journals.
We noted no issues in agreeing a sample of revenue journal entries back to the audited income report or through to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in the corresponding announcements prepared by the Company.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations.
Our Companys members those matters we are required to state to them procedures involved review of the reporting to the Directors with in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent respect to the application of the documented policies and permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as procedures and review of the financial statements to ensure compliance with the reporting requirements of the Company.
abody, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we haveformed.
We have reviewed that the Companys control environment and determined that it is adequate for the size and operating model of such a listed investment Company.
Matthew Price Senior statutory auditor A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils Statutory Auditor London website at https: www.
15 January 2019 Thisdescription forms part of our auditors report.
