96 Independent Auditors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report To the members of BBA Aviation plc Report on the audit of the financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the In our opinion: preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting the financial statements of BBA Aviation plc the Parent framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting theyear then ended: Practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Basis for opinion in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities the Parent Company financial statements have been properly under those standards are further described in the auditors prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section ofour Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 report.
Reduced Disclosure Framework: and We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in the financial statements have been prepared in accordance accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our withthe requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to We have audited the financial statements which comprise: listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical the Consolidated Income Statement: responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: were not provided to the Group or the Parent Company.
the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes andappropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
inEquity: the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement: the Accounting Policies of the Group and Parent Company: the related Group notes 1 to 27: and the related Parent Company notes 1 to 14.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report 97 Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Carrying value of Ontic and ERO inventory Tax contingent liabilities and provisioning relating to EU state aid and transfer pricing risk Completeness and accuracy of IFRS 16 Leases disclosures Revenue recognition relating to manual adjustments posted to Signature revenue Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year areidentified with.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was $13.0 million which was determined with reference to both profit before tax and underlying profit before tax.
Scoping 98% 2017: 96% of revenue and 95% 2017: 93% of total assets were subject to full audit or specific audit procedures, with the remainder covered by central review procedures.
Significant changes Our 2018 report includes three new key audit matters: in our approach the completeness and accuracy of the Groups IFRS 16 Leases disclosures included within the Groups explanation of financial reporting standards applicable for future reporting periods: revenue recognition relating to manual adjustments posted to Signature revenue: and tax contingent liabilities and provisioning relating to EU state aid and transfer pricing risk.
We no longer report Signature goodwill impairment, revenue recognition relating to percentage of completion accounting or presentation of earnings as key audit matters.
These matters are no longer considered to be key audit matters due to a reduction inthe required level of management judgement.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We have reviewed the directors statement on page 48 of the financial statements about whether they considered it We confirm that we have nothing appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material materialto report, add or draw attention uncertainties to the Groups and Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months to in respect of these matters.
fromthe date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the Group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge We confirm that we have nothing weobtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment materialto report, add or draw attention oftheGroups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have to in respect of these matters.
anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on page 45 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 48 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing theGroup, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 49 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they havedone so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of theirassessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
98 Independent Auditors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
There are three key audit matters which were discussed in our report in the prior year but not in the current year.
This is because the level of management judgement involved has decreased: there continues to be a significant amount of headroom on the Signature goodwill balance: the ERO business is currently reported as a discontinued operation see note 26, and as such the revenue recognition judgements are less significant to the Groups financial statements in the current year: and the Group has completed a number of multi-year restructuring programmes which were previously disclosed as exceptional and other items.
Carrying value of Ontic and ERO inventory Key audit matter description As detailed within the Accounting Policies of the Group and significant financial reporting issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee on page 60, management judgement is required to establish the carrying value of inventory see note 11.
Across the Ontic and ERO businesses $256 million 2017: $220 million of inventory is held and particular judgement is required to determine theappropriate level of inventory provisioning against surplus and obsolete items.
The judgement reflects the nature of the Groups Ontic and ERO operations which means that inventory must be held to support future aircraft and aircraft engine maintenance and overhaul events, resulting in inventory which can be held for extended periods oftime before utilisation.
How the scope of our Our audit procedures included testing of the inventory provisions held in the Ontic and ERO businesses by understanding and auditresponded to the challenging the key assumptions used to determine the appropriate carrying value of inventories.
Specifically: key audit matter we assessed whether managements controls relating to the estimation of the inventory provisions are appropriately designed andimplemented: we assessed whether the estimates of remaining lives and usage profiles of the engine and aircraft platforms are consistent with industry projections and supported by managements experts: and where the expected future usage of inventory is based on past experience we determined whether this has been reasonably estimated.
Furthermore we assessed the mathematical accuracy of the provisioning calculation by performing a recalculation of the expected provision based on the above key assumptions.
Key observations We conclude that the level of inventory provisions is appropriate and consistent with our understanding of the business.
Tax contingent liabilities and provisions relating to EU state aid and transfer pricing risk Key audit matter description As detailed within the Accounting Policies of the Group, note 4 and significant financial reporting issues considered by the Audit and Risk Committee on page 60, management judgement is required to determine whether tax matters represent contingent liabilities orrequire provisions.
Due to the continuing evolution of the regulatory environment in the EU, as well as the European Commissions EC investigation intothe UKs Controlled Foreign Company CFC regime, we have identified this as a Key Audit Matter in the current year.
The Group undertakes activities which leads to tax uncertainties, including transfer pricing under the application of transfer pricing principles and the deductibility of interest payable resulting from the Groups financing arrangements.
In relation to the EC investigation into the UKs CFC regime the Group has estimated the maximum potential liability to be approximately $110 million as disclosed within note 4.
No provision has been recognised in relation to this matter.
The Group assesses the probability of economic outflow in determining the extent to which provisions are held for transfer pricing exposures.
How the scope of our Our audit procedures included understanding and challenging the key assumptions determined by management to assess whether auditresponded to the contingent liability disclosure or provisions should be recognised.
Specifically: key audit matter we evaluated whether managements controls relating to the estimation of the likelihood of material outflow are appropriately designed and implemented: we challenged the documentation and opinions provided by managements experts as to whether they sufficiently support managements judgement: we assessed the competence of managements experts: and we engaged our tax audit specialists, to understand and challenge the judgements made by management around provisioning andcontingent liabilities with reference to current investigations by tax authorities.
Key observations We conclude managements judgements are reasonable, and specifically the contingent liability disclosure in note 4 relating totheGroups potential exposure to the ECs investigation into the UK CFC regime to be appropriate.
In relation to this key audit matter, we are satisfied with the accounting conclusions reached by the Group.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report 99 Completeness and accuracy of IFRS 16 Leases disclosure Key audit matter description As detailed within the Accounting Policies of the Group, and the report of the Audit and Risk Committee page 60 the Group will be adopting a new accounting standard, IFRS 16 Leases, effective from 1 January 2019.
This standard will have a significant impact upon the Groups financial statements: the Group leases a significant number of assets and a large number of arrangements which were previously classified as operating leases under IAS 17 Leases and held off balance sheet will need to be recognised within assets andliabilities under IFRS 16.
Within the Accounting Policies of the Group, management has set out the expected impact of transitioning to IFRS 16, which will lead to the recognition of an additional lease liability of $1.2 billion.
The expected impact of the IFRS 16 transition is reliant upon a number ofkey estimates, primarily determining the appropriate discount rates for each lease.
Additionally, there is a risk that the lease data which underpins the IFRS 16 transition calculation is incomplete or inaccurate.
How the scope of our Our audit procedures included understanding managements IFRS 16 transition impact analysis approach.
Specifically: auditresponded to the we assessed the design and implementation of the key controls relating to the determination of the IFRS 16 transition impact disclosure: key audit matter we assessed the discount rates used to calculate the lease obligation with support from our valuation specialists: we assessed the accuracy of the lease data by testing the lease data captured by management for a sample of leases through the inspection of lease documentation: and we tested the completeness of the lease data by reconciling the Groups existing lease commitments to the lease data underpinning the IFRS 16 model.
Key observations The disclosure included within the Accounting Policies of the Group of the transition impact of IFRS 16 is appropriate.
We conclude the discount rates used by the Group to determine the IFRS 16 lease liability and the lease data underpinning the impact analysis reasonable.
Revenue recognition relating to manual adjustments post to Signature revenue Key audit matter description As detailed within the Accounting Policies of the Group and note 1, revenue relating to the Signature business is recognised at the fair value of the consideration receivable.
The total value of revenue within the Signature business was $2,128 million 2017: $1,643 million and represents approximately 74% 2017: 70% of total revenue.
ISA 240 states that when identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement due to fraud, the auditor shall, based on a presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue recognition, evaluate which types of revenue, revenue transactions or assertions give rise to such risks.
Since Signature revenue consists of high volume, low-value, non-complex transactions we have focussed our work on manual adjustments made to Signature revenue, which could be an area subject to management manipulation and an area where controls could be overridden.
This is a new key audit matter in the current year because, following the plans to dispose of the ERO business, Signature now accounts for 91% of the Groups revenue from continuing operations.
How the scope of our Our audit procedures included challenging the rationale for significant manual adjustments to revenue.
Specifically: auditresponded to the we assessed the design and implementation of the key controls over the posting of revenue adjustments: key audit matter we selected a sample of manual adjustments posted to revenue in the period, and compared these to relevant documentation: and we performed analytical procedures on the revenue balance to identify any unusual fluctuations or trends which could be indicative ofthe posting of inappropriate adjustments.
Key observations We did not identify any evidence of inappropriate or fraudulent journals being posted in the revenue ledgers.
We conclude that revenue has been recognised appropriately in the period.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Materiality $13.0 million 2017: $12.0 million $7.0 million 2017: $6.0 million Basis for determining materiality Materiality was determined by reference to both profit before Materiality represents less than 1% 2017: less than 1% taxand underlying profit before tax.
Rationale for the benchmark Profit before tax and underlying profit before tax are considered The Parent Company does not generate significant revenue but applied to be key performance metrics of the business.
instead incurs costs and as such the net assets are considered appropriate when determining materiality.
Materiality of $13.0 million represents approximately 4% 2017:4% of underlying profit before tax and approximately 7% 2017: 7% of profit before tax.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $650,000 2017: $600,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit and Risk Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
100 Independent Auditors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment: We focused our Group audit scope on 14 2017: 12 components.
Our 2018 scope includes the newly acquired EPIC and Firstmark businesses.
Consistent with 2017 full audit procedures were completed on the Signature US business.
Seven 2017: seven locations were subsidiaries subject to a full scope audit in accordance with statutory reporting requirements in the UK and Europe.
Six 2017: four were subject to specific audit procedures, focused on the significant audit risk areas.
This scope includes the newly acquired EPIC and Firstmark businesses.
These 14 2017: 12 components represent the principal operating locations of the Group and account for approximately 98% 2017: 96% of revenue and 95% 2017: 93% of the Groups total assets.
Audits of these locations are performed at materiality levels determined by reference to a proportion of Group materiality appropriate to the relative scale of the business concerned.
Materiality for each location was set no higher than 85% 2017: 70% of Group materiality, spanning the range $5.2 million-$11.0 million 2017: $5.4 million-$8.4 million.
At the Parent Company level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks ofmaterial misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
The Group Audit Team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that a senior member visits each of the locations where the Group audit scope was focused.
Visits were made to 8 of the 14 components during the year 2017: 8 out of 12.
The visits enabled the Group Audit Team to update their understanding of the operations, risks and control environments of each component.
The visits were also used to review audit working papers and attend key meetings withlocal management.
For each of the businesses included within the programme of planned visits, the Group Audit Team discusses audit findings with the relevant component audit team throughout the audit engagement and reviews relevant audit working papers.
The Parent Company is located in the United Kingdom and audited directly by the Group Audit Team.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the We have nothing to report in respect annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained inthe audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether thereis a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based onthe work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit and Risk Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied thatthey give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free frommaterial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing asapplicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Independent Auditors Report 101 Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
Thisdescription forms part of our auditors report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, internal audit and the Audit and Risk Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the Groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: and the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team including significant component audit teams and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions and ITspecialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: manually manipulating Signature revenue and manipulating the Groups alternative performance profit measures to meet targets: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, the UK Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
In addition, compliance with UK, US and EU aviation regulations is fundamental to the Groupsability to continue as a going concern.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified manual adjustments to Signature revenue as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains thematter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit and Risk Committee and in-house and external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reviewing and challenging the calculation of the alternative performance measures reported by the Group by recalculating the alternative performance measures andcomparing the Groups practice to its immediate peer group: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether thejudgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
102 Independent Auditors Report BBA Aviation Annual Report 2018 Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect ofthese matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors remuneration We have nothing to report in respect have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting ofthese matters.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, we were appointed by the Board on 1 August 2002 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
Following a competitive tender process, we were reappointed as auditor for the period ending 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 17 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2002 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the Audit and Risk committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit and Risk Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Andrew Bond, FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London United Kingdom 4 March 2019
