Strategic report Governance Financials INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BCA MARKETPLACE PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opinion In our opinion, BCA Marketplace plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 1 April 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 1 April 2018: the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated and Company cash flow statements, and the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 11 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 3 April 2017 to 1 April 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 6,000,000, based on 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangibles, acquisition related costs and significant or non-recurring items.
Overall Company materiality: 410,000, based on 5% of loss before tax adjusted for significant or nonMateriality recurring items and intercompany recharges.
Full scope audits performed for two financially significant components: British Car Auctions Limited and We Buy Any Car Limited.
Audit scope Additional full scope audits performed for BCA Marketplace plc, BCA Central Limited, BCA Vehicle Finance Limited Partner Finance, and BCA Outsource Solutions Limited.
Audit of certain line items for Walon Limited part of BCA Automotive business, BCA Fleet Solutions Limited and Key audit Paragon Fleet Solutions.
matters Goodwill and acquired intangibles may be impaired Group.
Partner Finance debtors may not be recoverable Group.
Significant or non-recurring items may not be appropriately classified Group.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BCA MARKETPLACE PLC continued We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the group and company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation and UK and European tax legislation.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with legal advisors, review of board minutes, enquiries of management and review of significant component auditors work.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Goodwill and acquired intangibles may be impaired To assess the risk of impairment we have obtained an Refer to page 107 note 19 for managements disclosure understanding of managements methodology and approach to considering impairment including the identification of CGUs, and As a result of the acquisitions made over the past three years, ensured this approach is consistent with prior periods and IAS 36. significant goodwill of 953.7m and acquired intangibles of 549.7m have been recognised on the balance sheet.
There is We performed a detailed review of managements year-end a risk that these assets are no longer deemed to be recoverable impairment assessment and ensured the calculations were and hence should be impaired.
In performing this review we have agreed the underlying data on which the assessment is basedto Under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, all cash generating units other audited information or to approved budgets or forecasts.
CGUs containing goodwill must be tested for impairment annually.
We have assessed the reasonableness of growth assumptions To fulfil this requirement, management perform an impairment used in managements forecasts by comparing them to historic review on an annual basis for each of its CGUs, along with performance.
We considered all assumptions used by management additional impairment reviews whenever an indication of to be reasonable.
We performed sensitivity analysis on the impairment assessment The impairment reviews performed by management contain a to understand the extremity of assumptions required in order to number of significant judgements and estimates including revenue break the model.
We did not identify any indicators of growth rates and discount rates.
A change in these assumptions impairment.
can result in a material change in the valuation of the assets, and as a result there is a risk that goodwill is no longer deemed to be We have also assessed the adequacy of disclosures made and recoverable and hence should be impaired.
As a result, assessment of the carrying value of goodwill is a significant risk due to the quantum of the balance and the judgements involved.
Partner Finance debtors may not be recoverable For a sample of significant debtors we have tested theoutstanding Refer to page 102 note 15 for managements disclosure customer balance at the year-end to cash subsequently received to prove the recoverability of the year-end balance, with no issues noted.
At 1 April 2018, 148.4m of trade receivables were due from customers under partner finance arrangements.
We reviewed the quantum of aged debt and the reasonableness of recovery for significant aged items and tested the aging of the Following the bankruptcy of several customers of Partner Finance debtor report on which managements provision is based.
in recent years, and the material nature of the loan book, there continues to be a risk that amounts owed by financing debtors are We reviewed managements provisioning policy and ensured this not recoverable.
appears reasonable in light of previous write-offs.
We did not identify any customer balances deemed to be irrecoverable which were not already provided by manangement.
72 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Significant or non-recurring items may not be appropriately To ensure only appropriate amounts are excluded from adjusted classified measures, we have reviewed managements policy for what kind of Refer to page 94 note 6 for managements disclosure item constitutes a significant or non-recurring item.
We have then understood that rationale for classification of all material items as The removal of significant or non-recurring items from underlying significant or non-recurring.
results metrics isan area of focus for the Financial Reporting Council and therefore deserves an increased focus.
We performeddetailed testing of material expenses to supporting third party documentation to verify these meet the definition and There is a risk that standard items of expenditure are incorrectly noted no exceptions in our testing.
classified in order to better present the underlying trading results of the Group and the adjusted measure used by management.
We have evaluated managements disclosures and are satisfied that adjusted performance measures are reconciled to IFRS measures in the financial statements and the rationale for their use is clearly explained by management.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
BCA Marketplace delivers a comprehensive range of linked services in the automotive industry.
The Group owns and operates the UKs and Europes largest used vehicle exchange and is the UKs leading provider of vehicle buying services.
The Group operates from a number of distinct legal entities across the UK and Europe which are split across four main divisions generating revenue being UK Vehicle Remarketing, International Vehicle Remarketing, Vehicle Buying and Automotive Services.
These represent the Groups operating segments together with Group costs.
Central Group services and financial reporting procedures are performed by the UK HQ.
Our scoping considerations for the Group audit were based both on financial information and risk.
BCA Limited and We Buy Any Car Limited represent the majority of the trading results for the Group and are individually financially significant based upon the adjusted profit before tax they contribute to the overall trading results.
As a result we performed an audit of the complete financial information of both entities providing coverage of 76% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
In addition we performed an audit of the complete financial information of BCA Central Limited, BCA Vehicle Finance Limited and BCA Outsource Solutions Limited as a result of the number of individually significant financial statement line items within each of these entities.
To provide further coverage on an individual financial statement line item level, we also performed specific audit procedures over property, plant and equipment for Walon Limited within the Automotive Services segment, and trade receivables for BCA Fleet Solutions Limited and Paragon Fleet Solutions.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 6,000,000 410,000 How we determined it 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for amortisation 5% of loss before tax adjusted for significant or of acquired intangibles and significant or non-recurring items and intercompany recharges.
Rationale for benchmark Based on the benchmarks used in the annual report, We believe that loss before tax is the primary applied profit before tax is the primary measure used by the measure used by the shareholders in assessing shareholders in assessing the performance of the the performance of the entity, and is a generally Group, and is a generally accepted auditing accepted auditing benchmark.
Profit before tax has been adjusted for items which are not representative of the underlying results of the business and which are therefore adjusted in the reconciliation presented below the income statement.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BCA MARKETPLACE PLC continued For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 410,000 and 5,600,000.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 300,000 Group audit 2017: 214,000 and 20,000 Company audit 2017: 12,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
However, draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this financial statements about whether the directors considered it statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in ability to continue as a going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 1 April 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 74 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 70 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 69 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 70, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 65-66 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Responsibility statement of the Directors set out on page 70, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BCA MARKETPLACE PLC continued Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members of Haversham Holdings plc on 31 October 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 4 years, covering the periods ended 31 December 2014 to 1 April 2018.
John Minards Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors St Albans 27 June 2018 76 BCA Marketplace plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Primary statements 78 Long-term assets 106 Consolidated income statement Note 18: Acquisitions Consolidated statement of Note 19: Intangible assets comprehensive income Note 20: Property, plant and equipment Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated balance sheet Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to the accounts 84 Capital structure and financing 110 Note 1: General information Note 21: Bank borrowings Note 2: Basis of preparation Note 22: Partner Finance borrowings Note 3: Accounting policies Note 23: Share capital and reserves Note 4: Critical accounting Note 24: Dividends judgements and estimates Note 25: Share based payments Note 5: New standards, amendments and interpretations Results for the year 94 Pensions and other information 114 Note 6: Segmental reporting Note 26: Pensions and other Note 7: Earnings per share post-retirement benefits Note 8: Operating costs Note 27: Financial instruments Note 9: Employees and Directors risk management Note 10: Finance costs Note 28: Related party transactions Note 11: Auditors remuneration Note 29: Events after the reporting period Note 12: Taxation Note 30: List of Group undertakings Working capital and provisions 101 Note 13: Cash and cash equivalents Note 14: Inventories Note 15: Trade and other receivables Note 16: Trade and other payables Note 17: Provisions, commitments and contingencies B BC CA M A Ma ar rk ke et tp plla ac ce p e pllc A c An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Acc cco ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 18 8 77
