122 Independent auditors report to the members of Beazley plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 6 November 2002.
The period of total uninterrupted We have audited the financial statements of engagement is for the 16 financial years ended 31 Beazley plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical December 2018 which comprise the consolidated responsibilities under, and we remain independent of statement of profit or loss, statement of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements comprehensive income, statement of changes in including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed equity, statements of financial position, statements public interest entities.
No non-audit services of cash flows, and the related notes, including the prohibited by that standard were provided.
In our opinion: Overview the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Materiality: $20m 2017:$20m parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Group financial 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then 1% 2017: 1% of Gross statements as a ended: premiums written whole the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Coverage 99% 2017: 99% of Group International Financial Reporting Standards as revenue adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Key audit matters vs 2017 the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Recurring risks Valuation of insurance IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in liabilities accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and Recoverability of the financial statements have been prepared in insurance and accordance with the requirements of the reinsurance debtors Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Valuation of hard to Regulation.
value investments Basis for opinion Valuation of premium We conducted our audit in accordance with estimates International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit Parent: Recoverability evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and of parent companys appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion investment in is consistent with our report to the audit subsidiaries committee.
Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Valuation of insurance Subjective valuation: We used our own actuarial specialists to assist us liabilities in performing our procedures in this area.
Insurance liabilities represent the single largest $2,869.5m, gross, liability for the Group.
valuation of these Our procedures included: $2,149.7m, net: 2017: liabilities is highly judgemental because it Sector experience and benchmarking: $2,852.3m, gross, requires a number of assumptions to be made Performed benchmarking of the Groups $2,078.5m, net with high estimation uncertainty such as ultimate loss ratios, initial expected loss ratios, expected loss ratios, estimates of ultimate premium rate change and expectations of total Refer to page 92 Audit premium and of the frequency and severity of losses on natural catastrophes, in order to and Risk Committee claims and, where appropriate, the discount identify specific trends and outliers: Report, page 142 rate for longer tail classes of business by Statement of accounting territory and line of business.
The Re-projections: Used our projection of policies and page 181 determination and application of the premiums and claims on a gross and net basis financial disclosures.
methodology and performance of the and compared these with the Groups calculations are also complex.
estimates to assess their reasonableness.
These judgemental and complex calculations Methodology assessment: Assessed the for insurance liabilities are also used to derive reserving assumptions and methodology on a the valuation of the related reinsurance assets.
gross basis and net of outwards reinsurance for reasonableness and consistency year on year, A margin is added to the actuarial best including inspecting the Groups margin paper.
estimate of insurance liabilities to make allowance for specific risks identified in Actual versus expected testing: Challenged assessment of the best estimate.
The the quality of the Groups historical reserving appropriate margin to recognise is a subjective estimates by monitoring progression of loss judgement and estimate taken by the ratios against expectations.
directors, based on the perceived uncertainty Assessing transparency: Considered the and potential for volatility in the underlying adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect claims.
of the valuation of insurance liabilities.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of In addition to the procedures above, the audit team our risk assessment, we determined that the performed procedures to assess the completeness valuation of insurance liabilities has a high and accuracy of data: degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes Data reconciliations: Checked the greater than our materiality for the financial completeness and accuracy of the data used statements as a whole, and possibly many within the reserving process by reconciling the times that amount.
actuarial source data to the financial systems.
We have also checked the completeness and Completeness and accuracy of data: accuracy of the data flow from the claims and The valuation of insurance liabilities depends policy systems into the financial systems on complete and accurate data about the primarily by performing substantive testing over volume, amount and pattern of current and data reconciliations.
historical claims since they are often used to Our results form expectations about future claims.
If the data used in calculating the insurance We found the resulting estimate of insurance liabilities, or for forming judgements over key liabilities to be acceptable.
2017 result: assumptions, is not complete and accurate acceptable.
then material impacts on the valuation of insurance liabilities may arise.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement cont.
The risk The risk Our response Our response The risk Our response Recoverability of insurance Recoverability of debtors Our procedures included: Valuation of hard to Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: receivables and reinsurance Recoverability of insurance Recoverability of debtors Our procedures included: value investments Insurance receivables: Data reconciliation: Reperformed the Reconciliation controls: Tested the design and A proportion of the Groups investment assets receivables and reinsurance Groups prepared reconciliations between Insurance receivables: Data reconciliation: Reperformed the The ability to identify, monitor and age operating effectiveness of the controls associated $523.8m: 2017: assets are comprised of either illiquid credit assets Xchanging and the G G rr oo uu pp s s f p inra en pc airae l d reconciliations between Insurance receivables $943.3m: insurance debtors relies on the The ability to timely identify, monitor and with the existence age and valuation of the hedge $557.8m assets or investments in hedge funds.
systems: Xchanging and the Groups financial 2017: $918.0m, Reinsurance Insurance receivables $943.3m: availability of reliable insurance debtors relies on the data.
The funds and illiquid timely credit assets.
These assets are inherently harder to value systems: assets: $1,192.8m: 2016: 2017: $918.0m, Reinsurance availability of this data is also impacted availability of reliable data.
The Assessing future premium debtors: Refer to page 93 Audit due to the inability to obtain a market price Comparing valuations: For investments in hedge $1,231.1m assets: $1,192.8m: by 2016: the source, being either settled direct availability of this data is also impacted Performed an analysis Assessing future over the unsigned premium debtors: and Risk Committee of these assets as at the balance sheet funds we inspected the financial statements of through intermediaries or through debtors within the insurance receivables $1,231.1m by the source, being either settled direct Performed an analysis over the unsigned Report, page 145 date.
As such there is judgement involved in the underlying funds to assess that the valuation Refer to page 93 Audit and Risk Xchanging.
through intermediaries or th balance rough in order to assess the valuation debtors within the insurance and receivables Statement of the valuation of these assets.
Committee Report, page 145 Refer to page 93 Audit and Risk Xchanging.
balance in order to assess the valuation and accounting policies and Reinsurance assets: Historical accuracy: For illiquid credit assets and The valuation of the investments are based Statement of accounting Committee policies Report, page 145 recoverability of the debtors.
page 171 financial Reinsurance assets: Provisioning analysis: Critically assessed, Major catastrophes could impair the investments in hedge funds the historical accuracy on third party valuation reports which are and page 177 financial Statement of accounting policies disclosures.
based on our sector Provisioning analysis: expertise, the adequacy Critically assessed, Groups ability to recover incurred Major catastrophes could impair the losses of the valuations was assessed by comparing received at dates other than the year end disclosures.
and page 177 financial of the provisioning policy in place for based on our sector expertise, the adequacy from its reinsurers, depending on theinterim valuation reports to the final year-end Groups ability to recover incurred losses date.
The investments are subject to disclosures.
Beazley by assessing of the provisioning and investigating policy any in place for financial strength of fthe counterparties, rom its reinsurerreports s, depefor prior periods.
nding on the variations in value between the date of the material movements Beazley by assessing in policy and the overall and investigating any which would then impact the financial strength of the counterparties, valuation report and the period end date.
Roll forward testing: Assessed the quantum of percentage of bad debt material movements during the reporting in policy and the overall recoverability of reinsurance assets.
which would then impact the These variations where applicable require change in the valuation of investments between period.
percentage of bad debt during the reporting recoverability of reinsurance assets.
judgement to assess whether In recent years, Beaz adjustments ley has adopted the early a close date and the period end date to period.
Recoverability assessment: Considered are required to the valuation consistent approach in determining of the the consider whether there was a material movement In recent years, Beazley has adopted a potential indications R of non-recovery ecoverability afor a ssessment: Considered investments at bad debt the period end date.
provisions consistent approach in determining to be booked in the post the early close the date that required adjustment.
sample of reinsurance potential assets, indications in light of of non-recovery the for a financial statements.
However, bad debt provisions to be booked in the Assessing transparency: Considered the credit standing of the counterpa sample of reinsurance rty and age assets, in light of the The effect of these judgement is matters is that, as required in financial statements.
However, part ensuring this adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of of the debt.
credit standing of the counterparty and age of our risk assessment, approach remains relevant and we determined judgement is that that required in any ensuring this the valuation of hard to value investments.
the valuation of hard to value aged balances are investments being given Assessing transparency: Considered the approach remains relevant and that any Our results has a high degree appropriate attention.
of estimation uncertainty, aged balances are being given adequacy of the Groups Assessing transparency: disclosures in Considered the with a potential range of reasonable appropriate attention.
respect of the recoverability adequacy of insurance of the Groups disclosures in We found the resulting estimate of the valuation The effect of these matters is that, as outcomes greater than our materiality for receivables and reinsurance assets.
respect of the recoverability of insurance of hard to value investments to be acceptable.
part of our risk asses The sme effect of these nt, we matters is that, as the financial statements as a whole, and receivables and reinsurance assets.
determined that the precoverability of art of our risk assessm Our results ent, we possibly many times that amount.
insurance receivables and reinsurance determined that the recoverability of Our results We found the resulting estimate of the assets has a high degree insuraof estimation nce receivables and reinsurance recoverability of insurance and reinsurance We found the resulting estimate of the uncertainty, with a potential assets has a high range of degree of estimation debtors to be acceptable recoverability 2017 result: of insurance and reinsurance reasonable outcomes greater than uncertainty, with a potential our range of acceptable.
debtors to be acceptable 2017 result: 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of materiality for risks of m the financial statements aterial m reasonable isstatem outcomes greater than ent cont.
as a whole, and possibly many times materiality for the financial statements The risk Our response that amount.
as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
Valuation of hard to Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: value investments Reconciliation controls: Tested the design and A proportion of the Groups investment operating effectiveness of the controls associated $523.8m: 2017: assets are comprised of either illiquid credit with the existence and valuation of the hedge $557.8m assets or investments in hedge funds.
funds and illiquid credit assets.
These assets are inherently harder to value Refer to page 93 Audit due to the inability to obtain a market price Comparing valuations: For investments in hedge and Risk Committee of these assets as at the balance sheet funds we inspected the financial statements of Report, page 145 date.
As such there is judgement involved in the underlying funds to assess that the valuation Statement of the valuation of these assets.
accounting policies and Historical accuracy: For illiquid credit assets and The valuation of the investments are based page 171 financial investments in hedge funds the historical accuracy on third party valuation reports which are disclosures.
of the valuations was assessed by comparing received at dates other than the year end interim valuation reports to the final year-end date.
The investments are subject to reports for prior periods.
variations in value between the date of the valuation report and the period end date.
Roll forward testing: Assessed the quantum of These variations where applicable require change in the valuation of investments between judgement to assess whether adjustments the early close date and the period end date to are required to the valuation of the consider whether there was a material movement investments at the period end date.
post the early close date that required adjustment.
Assessing transparency: Considered the The effect of these matters is that, as part adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of of our risk assessment, we determined that the valuation of hard to value investments.
the valuation of hard to value investments Our results has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable We found the resulting estimate of the valuation outcomes greater than our materiality for of hard to value investments to be acceptable.
the financial statements as a whole, and 2017 result: acceptable.
possibly many times that amount.
The risk Our response Valuation of gross Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: premium written There are adjustments made to gross premiums Retrospective analysis: Critically assessed the estimates written to reflect adjustments to ultimate Groups past expertise in making premium $2615.3m: 2017: premium estimates, binding authority contract estimates by comparing the estimates and actuals $2,343.8m binders adjustments, reinstatement for prior years for a sample of binders.
We also premiums and other ad hoc adjustments to compared the Groups estimate of gross Refer to page 93 premium income.
premiums written between the early close date Audit and Risk and reporting date to actuals.
There is a large proportion of premium is Committee Report, written through the Group syndicates via Methodology assessment: Inspected the binder page 141 Statement binders.
Such premiums are uncertain at adjustment calculation and agreed that the of accounting inception and the model used in the recognition methodology remains consistent and appropriate policies and page and earning of such premiums is subject to in the context of the timing of business written 161 financial judgement and estimation.
There is an increased risk of premium estimates Independent reperformance: Recalculated, on a being misstated as a result of the early close sample basis, the earning of premium and process which requires Beazley to estimate the investigated any changes to earnings patterns.
premiums relating to the month of December Assessing transparency: Considered the and where necessary make adjustments at the adequacy of the Groups disclosures in respect of period end.
the valuation of gross premium written estimates.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of Our results our risk assessment, we determined that valuation of gross premium written estimates We found the resulting estimate of the valuation has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, of estimated premium to be acceptable.
2017 with a potential range of reasonable outcomes result: acceptable.
greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
Parent: Low risk, high value Our procedures included: Recoverability of The carrying amount of the parent companys Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of parent companys investments in subsidiaries represents 99% 100% of investments with the relevant investment in 2017: 97% of the companys total assets.
subsidiaries financial statements draft balance subsidiaries Their recoverability is not at a high risk of sheet to identify whether their net assets, being significant misstatement or subject to an approximation of their minimum recoverable $724.6m: 2017: significant judgement.
However, due to their amount, were in excess of their carrying amount $724.6m materiality in the context of the parent company and assessing whether those subsidiaries have financial statements, this is considered to be historically been profit-making.
Refer to page 140 the area that had the greatest effect on our Statement of Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the overall parent company audit.
accounting policies findings of the audit work performed by the and page 196 relevant component auditors and whether these financial findings provide any indicators that the value of disclosures.
the subsidiaries may be impaired.
Our results We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the parent companys investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
126 The Group team visited 3 2017: 0 component 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview locations in the United States of America 2017: none of the scope of our audit to assess the audit risk and scoping.
Telephone conference meetings were also held with these Materiality for the Group financial statements as a component auditors.
At these visits and meetings, the whole was set at $20m 31 December 2017: $20m, findings reported to the Group team were discussed in determined with reference to a benchmark of 2017 more detail, and any further work required by the Group gross premiums written of which it represents Group team was then performed by the component 1%: 31 December 2017: 1%.
Gross premiums written auditor was used as the benchmark as it is a more stable metric year on year than profit before tax.
In addition, Gross written premium Group Materiality we applied materiality of $10m 31 December 2017: $2.6bn 2017: $2.3bn $20m 2017: $20m $10m for UK balances other than insurance and reinsurance technical balances and investments, for $20m which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts Whole financial than materiality for the financial statements as a whole statements materiality could be reasonably expected to influence the 2017: $20m companys members assessment of the financial performance of the Group.
$18m Range of materiality at 16 Materiality for the parent company financial statements components $0.1m-$16m 2017: $0.1m to $16m as a whole was set at $7m 31 December 2017: $7m, determined with reference to a benchmark of 2017 total assets of which it represents 1%, 31 December 2017 1%.
We have used total assets as the benchmark rather than profit before tax because the purpose of the entity is to act as the ultimate parent company of the Group and hold investments in other Gross written premium $1m Misstatements reported to the Group companies and not to generate profits.
Group materiality audit committee 2017: $1m We agreed to report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements Group revenue Group profit before tax exceeding $1m $0.5m for non-technical 31 December 2017: $1m $0.5m for non-technical in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
22 8 12 29 Of the Groups 32 2017: 33 reporting components, we subjected 16 2017: 17 to full scope audits for Group purposes and 3 2017: 3 to specified risk- 99% 100% focused audit procedures.
These entities were not 2017 99% 2017 100% individually financially significant enough to require a full scope audit for Group purposes, but did present 71 87 92 77 specific individual risks that needed to be addressed.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
For Group total assets Group total liabilities the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment 9 12 that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The work on 3 of the 16 8 11 components 2017: 3 of the 17 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the parent company, was 97% 100% performed by the Group team.
The Group audit team 2017 97% 2017 100% instructed the component team as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks 89 89 detailed above and the information to be reported back.
88 88 The Group audit team approved the component materialities, which ranged from $0.1m to $16m 31 Key: Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 December 2017: $0.1m to $16m, having regard to the Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 components.
All other work, including the audit of the parent company, was performed by the Group audit Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 team.
We have nothing to report on going concern 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the The directors are responsible for the other information Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as presented in the Annual Report together with the financial they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not concluded that there are no material uncertainties that express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated could have cast significant doubt over their ability to below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
continue as a going concern for at least a year from the Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in date of approval of the financial statements the going doing so, consider whether, based on our financial concern period.
statements audit work, the information therein is materially Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to not identified material misstatements in the other that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all information.
future events or conditions and as subsequent events may Strategic report and directors report result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements Based solely on our work on the other information: that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this we have not identified material misstatements in the auditor's report is not a guarantee that the Group and the strategic report and the directors report: Company will continue in operation.
in our opinion the information given in those reports for In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we the financial year is consistent with the financial considered the inherent risks to the Groups and statements: and Companys business model and analysed how those risks in our opinion those reports have been prepared in might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources accordance with the Companies Act 2006. or ability to continue operations over the going concern Directors remuneration report period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companys available In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration financial resources over this period were: Report to be audited has been properly prepared in adverse insurance reserves development: accordance with the Companies Act 2006. a deterioration in claims experience, potentially caused Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability by market wide catastrophe event s : and Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial a deterioration in the valuation of the Group and statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw Companys investments.
attention to in relation to: As these were risks that could potentially cast significant the directors confirmation within the viability statement doubt on the Groups and the Company's ability to continue page 56 that they have carried out a robust assessment as a going concern, we considered sensitivities over the of the principal risks facing the Group, including those level of available financial resources indicated by the that would threaten its business model, future Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably performance, solvency and liquidity: possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks from these risks individually and collectively and evaluated and explaining how they are being managed and the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they mitigated: and would take to improve the position should the risks the directors explanation in the viability statement of materialise.
We also considered less predictable but how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit over what period they have done so and why they and the impact on the economic environment, which could considered that period to be appropriate, and their result in a rapid reduction of available financial resources.
statement as to whether they have a reasonable Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: expectation that the Group will be able to continue in we have anything material to add or draw attention to in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the relation to the directors statement in Note 1 to the period of their assessment, including any related financial statements on the use of the going concern disclosures drawing attention to any necessary basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that qualifications or assumptions.
may cast significant doubt over the Group and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Companys use of that basis for a period of at least viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this twelve months from the date of approval of the financial respect.
statements: or Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial page 74 is materially inconsistent with our audit statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or knowledge.
conditions and as subsequent events may result in We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
Respective responsibilities Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: Directors responsibilities we have identified material inconsistencies between the As explained more fully in their statement set out on page knowledge we acquired during our financial statements 121, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the audit and the directors statement that they consider financial statements including being satisfied that they give that the annual report and financial statements taken as a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and is necessary to enable the preparation of financial provides the information necessary for shareholders to statements that are free from material misstatement, assess the Groups position and performance, business whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and model and strategy: or parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, the section of the annual report describing the work of disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: the Audit Committee does not appropriately address and using the going concern basis of accounting unless matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic We are required to report to you if the Corporate alternative but to do so.
Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Auditors responsibilities Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about review.
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from We have nothing to report in these respects.
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level which we are required to report by exception of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can to you if, in our opinion: arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are adequate accounting records have not been kept by the considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have could reasonably be expected to influence the economic not been received from branches not visited by us: or decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial the parent Company financial statements and the part of statements.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the not in agreement with the accounting records and FRCs website at www.
returns: or Irregularities ability to detect certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified We identified areas of laws and regulations that could by law are not made: or reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the we have not received all the information and financial statements from our general commercial and explanations we require for our audit.
sector experience and through discussion with the directors We have nothing to report in these respects.
and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory correspondence and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Governance 129 Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: UK listing rules, Companies Act, Prudential Regulatory Authority and Lloyds of London prudential regulation recognising the financial and regulated nature of the Groups activities and its legal form.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Daniel Cazeaux Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 6 February 2019 130 Beazley Annual report 2018 www.
com Financial statements 131 Consolidated statement of profit or loss 132 Statements of comprehensive income 133 Statements of changes in equity 135 Statements of financial position 136 Statements of cash flows 137 Notes to the financial statements 198 Glossary
