Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bellway p. l. c. We were appointed as auditor of the company before 1979.
Our opinion is unmodified The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for more We have audited the financial statements of Bellway p. l. c. than the 40 financial years ended 31 July 2018.
We have the Company for the year ended 31 July 2018 which fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain comprise the Group Income Statement, Group and independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, Statements requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied of Changes in Equity, Balance Sheets, Cash Flow Statements to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services and the related notes, including the accounting policies.
prohibited by that standard were provided.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Overview state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs Materiality: group 31 million 2017 26 million as at 31 July 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year financial statements as a 4.8% 2017 4.6% of Group then ended: whole profit before tax the Group financial statements have been properly Coverage 100% 2017 99% of Group prepared in accordance with International Financial profit before tax Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Risks of material vs 2017 misstatement the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Recurring risks Gross profit recognition on the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of current sites and carrying the Companies Act 2006: and amount of land held for development and work in the financial statements have been prepared in progress accordance with the requirements of the Companies Valuation of investments in Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, subsidiaries Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
Bellway p. l. c. 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Accounts The risk Our response Group: Carrying Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: amount of land held for The gross profit margin Control design: Evaluating the Groups process upon development and work recognised on sites under which the site gross profit margin is based.
This includes in progress development and the assessing the frequency of site valuations and assessing the 3,224 million 2017 carrying value of land held process for authorising and recording incurred costs in the 2,934 million.
for development and work site valuations.
in progress are subjective Cost of sales Control observation: Attending a selection of site valuation as they are reliant on the 2,204 million 2017 meetings to assess whether divisional senior management Groups estimate of future 1,897 million.
sufficiently challenge the latest site valuations.
selling prices and associated Refer to page 55 Audit build costs, both of which are Test of details: For all sites with unit sales during the year, Committee Report, pages uncertain and can vary with comparing the gross profit margin recognised to the latest 93 and 96 accounting market conditions.
site valuation and determining whether variances are policies and note 12 supported by changes in site valuations and post year on page 102 financial end sales.
Test of details: For a sample of undeveloped land sites, corroborating explanations received from divisional management as to their status by assessing underlying planning and legal documents and quantity surveyor assessments where applicable.
Test of details: For a sample of sites, assessing the accuracy of inputs in to the valuations such as sales price forecasts to actual selling prices after the year end and cost forecasts to latest assessments.
Historical comparisons: Comparing budgeted and latest site valuations to assess the Groups ability to accurately forecast.
Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the Groups disclosures about the degree of estimation involved in calculating the gross margin and carrying value of land and work in progress.
Our results We found the carrying value of land and work in progress to be acceptable 2017 acceptable.
We found the level of cost of sales recognised to be acceptable 2017 acceptable.
Company: Recoverability Low risk, high value: Our procedures included: of parent companys The carrying amount of the Test of details: Comparing the carrying amount of 100% investment in parent companys investments of investments with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance subsidiaries in subsidiaries represents sheets to identify whether their net assets, being an 40 million 2017 37 6% 2017 6% of the approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were million Companys total assets.
Their in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether recoverability is not at a high those subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.
Refer to page 55 Audit risk of significant misstatement Committee Report, page Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed or subject to significant 93 accounting policies by the subsidiary audit teams on all of those subsidiaries and judgement.
However, due to and note 10 on page 101 considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries their materiality in the context financial disclosures.
of the parent company financial statements, this is Our results considered to be the area that We found the Companys assessment of the recoverability had the greatest effect on our of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable 2017 overall parent company audit.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Bellway p. l. c. continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Profit before tax Group Materiality 31 million 2017 26 million 641 million of the scope of our audit 2017 561 million 31 million Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole Whole financial was set at 31 million 2017 26 million, determined with statements materiality reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax of 2017 26 million which it represents 4.8% 2017 4.6%.
26.4 million Materiality for the parent Company financial statements Range of materiality at nine components as a whole was set at 10.6 million 2017 9.7 million, 0.001 million 26.4 million determined with reference to a benchmark of Company total 2017 0.002 million assets, of which it represents 1.7% 2017 1.5%.
to 22.1 million We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected 1.55 million Misstatements reported or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding to the audit committee 1.55 million, in addition to other identified misstatements that Profit before tax 2017 1.3 million warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Group materiality Of the Groups nine 2017 nine reporting components, we subjected nine 2017 nine to full scope audits for Group purposes.
The components within the scope of our work accounted for the percentages illustrated opposite.
Group revenue Group profit before tax For the three residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement 1 within these.
The Group team approved the component materialities, 100% which ranged from 0.001 million to 26.4 million 2017 100% 2017 - 100% 2017 - 99% 0.002 million to 22.1 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
100 99 The work on all components 2017 all components, including the audit of the parent Company, was performed 100 100 by the Group team.
Group total assets 1 1 99% 2017 - 99% 99 99 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 Residual Components 2018 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Residual Components 2017 Bellway p. l. c. 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Disclosures of principal risks and longer term viability 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial We are required to report to you if: statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement on page 81 to the the directors confirmation within the Long-Term Viability financial statements on the use of the going concern basis Statement on page 27 that they have carried out a of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of including those that would threaten its business model, that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the future performance, solvency and liquidity: date of approval of the financial statements: or the Risk Management disclosures describing these the related statement under the Listing Rules set risks and explaining how they are being managed and out on page 27 is materially inconsistent with our mitigated: and audit knowledge.
the directors explanation in the Long-Term Viability We have nothing to report in these respects.
Statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and 5.
We have nothing to report on the other why they considered that period to be appropriate, and information in the Annual Report their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue The directors are responsible for the other information in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due presented in the Annual Report together with the financial over the period of their assessment, including any statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not qualifications or assumptions.
express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Long-Term Viability Statement.
We have nothing to report in Our responsibility is to read the other information and, this respect.
in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially Corporate governance disclosures misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our We are required to report to you if: audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements Strategic report and directors report audit and the directors statement that they consider that Based solely on our work on the other information: the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides we have not identified material misstatements in the the information necessary for shareholders to assess the strategic report and the directors report: Groups position and performance, business model and in our opinion the information given in those reports strategy: or for the financial year is consistent with the financial the section of the annual report describing the work of the statements: and Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters in our opinion those reports have been prepared in communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or accordance with the Companies Act 2006. a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report We are required to report to you if the Corporate to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance Governance Statement does not properly disclose a with the Companies Act 2006. departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Based solely on our work on the other information described above: with respect to the Corporate Governance Statement disclosures about internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures: we have not identified material misstatements therein: and the information therein is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion, the Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared in accordance with relevant rules of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Bellway p. l. c. continued Irregularities ability to detect 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters We identified areas of laws and regulations that could on which we are required to report by exception reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to financial statements from our sector experience, through you if, in our opinion: discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting the parent Company financial statements and the part of including related company legislation and taxation the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by related financial statement items.
law are not made: or In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations we have not received all the information and explanations in the specific areas of health and safety, anti-bribery, we require for our audit.
employment law and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the nature of the Groups activities.
With the We have nothing to report in these respects.
exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in 7.
Respective responsibilities respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and Directors responsibilities legal correspondence.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 81, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the We communicated identified laws and regulations financial statements including being satisfied that they give a throughout our team and remained alert to any indications true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is of non-compliance throughout the audit.
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nonthat are free from material misstatement, whether due to detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as override of internal controls.
applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease owe our responsibilities operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, Auditors responsibilities as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken whether the financial statements as a whole are free from so that we might state to the Companys members those material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other matters we are required to state to them in an auditors irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted to anyone other than the Company and the Companys in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from the opinions we have formed.
fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Nick Plumb Senior Statutory Auditor A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor FRCs website at www.
Chartered Accountants Quayside House, 110 Quayside, Newcastle Upon Tyne, NE1 3DX 15 October 2018 Bellway p. l. c. 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
