Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of Big Yellow Group PLC the Company for the year ended 31 March 2018 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Consolidated and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in notes 2 and 29.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 20 July 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is eight months for the financial year ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: 9.5m Group financial statements as a whole 0.69% of Total Assets Coverage 100% of Total Assets Risks of material misstatement Recurring Risks Valuation of Investment Property, including Investment Property under Construction Parent Company: Amounts owed by Group Undertakings 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
91 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC continued The risk Our response Valuation of Investment Property, Subjective Valuation Our procedures included: including Investment Property Investment property fair values are calculated using Assessing valuers credentials: We assessed the under Construction actual and subjective assumptions inputs such as external valuers qualifications and expertise and read Investment Property 1,245.1m store occupancy, net rent per square foot, discount their terms of engagement with the Group to determine 2017: 1,154.4m rates and exit capitalisation rates.
For investment whether there were any matters that might have property under construction additional estimates affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope Investment Property Under include expected costs to complete and the risk of limitations upon their work.
Construction 58.2m not obtaining planning permission for nonMethodology choice: We read the external valuation 2017: 36.1m consented sites.
reports for 100% of the properties and assessed Refer to page 87 Audit whether the valuation approach was in accordance with The Group employs external valuers to apply Committee Report, note 2 RICS standards and suitable for use in determining the professional judgement concerning market accounting policy and note 15 final value for the purpose of the financial statements.
conditions and factors impacting individual financial disclosures.
Personnel interview: We met with the external valuer properties.
and the audit committee chairman with our own internal Investment property valuation is a significant and real estate specialist to discuss the valuation process, key risk of material misstatement as the valuation key assumptions such as occupancy, capitalisation and process is subjective and inherently judgemental discount rates, and the rationale behind the more in nature.
significant or unusual valuation movements during the year.
The investment market for prime self storage is Our sector experience: We used our knowledge of the subject to market uncertainty due to the low volume entity, our experience of the real estate industry and of comparable transactions.
observed industry norms when assessing the key assumptions and the significant or unusual valuation movements and for investment property under construction we considered the judgement made by the directors and external valuers for planning risk for nonconsented sites.
Data provided to the valuer: We performed property visits and tested the current and historical accuracy of information used to generate key inputs to the valuation such as store occupancy and net rental income by physically inspecting a sample of storage units and reviewing a sample of customer storage license agreements.
Independent re-performance: Using our own internally produced model and the external valuer and managements inputs we assessed the reasonableness of valuation as produced by the external valuer.
Tests of detail: For investment property under construction we tested that the supporting information for construction contracts and budgets, which was also supplied to the valuer, was consistent with the Groups records for example by inspecting original construction contracts.
We also obtained evidence that planning permission had been obtained for development sites.
Assessing Transparency: We assessed the Groups disclosures discussing the investment property and investment property under construction valuation and their sensitivities.
Our results We found the valuation of investment property and investment property under construction to be acceptable.
92 The risk Our response Amounts owed by Group Low risk, high value Our procedures included: Undertakings The carrying amount of the intra-group debtor Test of details: We assessed 100% of Group debtors to 470.6m 2017: 481.2m balance represents 95.3% of the Companys total identify, with reference to the relevant debtors financial assets at 31 March 2018. statements draft balance sheet, whether they have a Refer to note 29 accounting positive net asset value and therefore coverage of the policy and note 31 financial Their recoverability is not at a high risk of significant debt owed, as well as assessing whether those subsidiary disclosures.
misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
companies have historically been profit-making.
However, due to their materiality in the context of Assessing subsidiary audits: We considered the results the Company financial statements, this is of the work performed on the subsidiary audits, including considered to be the area that had the greatest assessing the liquidity of the assets and therefore the effect on our overall Company audit.
ability of the subsidiaries to fund the repayment of the receivable.
Our results We found the assessment of the recoverability of the Group debtor balance to be acceptable.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 9.5m determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents 0.69%.
In addition, we applied materiality of 3.0m to all balances and classes of transactions impacting adjusted profit before tax as reconciled to profit before tax in note 10 of the financial statements for which we believe misstatements of lesser amounts than materiality for the financial statements as a whole could be reasonably expected to influence the Company's members' assessment of the financial performance of the group.
Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 4.9m, determined with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets of 493.8m, of which it represents 0.99%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements relating to line items above group profit before tax exceeding 475,000 and those relating to Balance Sheet classification exceeding 1.0m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 22 reporting components, we subjected six to audits for group reporting purposes These group procedures covered 99% of total group revenue: 99% of the total profits and losses that made up group profit before tax: and 100% of total group assets.
The remaining 1% total group revenue, 1% of the total profits and losses that made up group profit before tax and 0% of total group assets is represented by 16 reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 1% of any of total group revenue, group profit before tax or total group assets.
For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The work on all the components, including the audit of the parent Company, was performed by the Group team at the head office in Bagshot, Surrey.
The Group team used component materialities, which ranged from 0.5m to 7.1m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Whole financial statement materiality 9.5m Net Assets 1,369.8m Component materialities Net Assets 7.1m Group materiality Misstatement threshold 0.48m 93 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC continued 99% 99% 100% Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 Specified risk-focussed audit procedures 2018 Specified risk-focussed audit procedures 2018 Specified risk-focussed audit procedures 2018 Residual components Residual components Residual components 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern We are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement in note 2 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 38 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and Directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the Viability statement on page 38 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the Viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
94 We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Report does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 90, the Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our sector experience, and through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related Company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Steve Masters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants Arlington Business Park, Theale, RG7 4SD 21 May 2018 95
