Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Bovis Homes Group PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Bovis Homes Group PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual report and accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group and Company Balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the Group income statement and the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group and Company statements of cash flows, and the Group and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 2.1 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Context Bovis Homes Group PLC is a British housebuilder listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group is wholly UK based, operating in England and Wales.
The Group is dependent on macroeconomic factors as well as the conditions of the UK residential property market.
The Group may be particularly adversely affected by any factor that reduces sales prices or transaction volumes or presents constraints in the supply chain in the UK residential property market.
This was particularly relevant for our work in the areas of margin forecasting and the valuation of inventory.
| 112 Our governance Our governance Our audit approach - overview Overall Group materiality: 8.4 million 2017: 5.7 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: 4.6 million 2017: 4.7 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality The Group consists of one main trading entity and is structured into seven regions, being Mercia, West Midlands, Western, South West, Northern Home Counties, South East and Southern Counties.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of these seven regional reporting units and the centralised Group functions.
Audit scope We undertook work across the seven regions which together account for 100% of the Group revenue.
Margin forecasting and recognition Group.
Key audit Carrying value of inventory Group.
matters The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to increase revenue or reduce expenditure.
Audit procedures performed included: review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation: review of correspondence with and reports to the regulators: review of correspondence with legal advisors: enquiries of management and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements: identifying and testing journal entries in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account combinations.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 113 Auditors report Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Margin forecasting and recognition Group Refer to page 104 of the Audit Committee Report Significant At a regional level we tested managements forecasting and Areas and Note 1.5 of the financial statements Key sources of monitoring controls, including observation of a selection of estimation uncertainty for the Group.
the site review meetings attended by representatives from the Build, Commercial and Finance teams to ensure costs are The Groups margin forecasting and recognition system COINS accurate and complete.
incorporates the input of a number of key assumptions including: Build costs allocated to each plot based on the Groups site We understood significant differences between the forecast cost wide margin model : and actual cost incurred.
We tested a sample of actual costs incurred and forecast costs to third party support.
Land costs and central site costs, including infrastructure costs allocated to each plot based on the Groups site wide margin We selected a sample of cost variations and verified that these model : and have had been appropriately approved.
Sales price based on an expected sales price for the type and We attended surveyor counts at a sample of sites which provided size of property.
evidence over existence of inventory as well as the basis for the Periodic surveyor and financial appraisals are performed to determine valuation of costs incurred.
the costs to date and work in progress, based upon the stage of We also tested that the system correctly recalculated site margins.
We have tested a sample of forecast sales prices to the actual If the overall site is loss making then management consider this as sales price attained to support the validity of estimated sales part of the land write down provisioning process.
There is uncertainty within the above assumptions from potential Based on the procedures performed, we did not identify any sites changes in the market conditions or unforeseen circumstances.
where we considered the underlying assumptions in the forecast This could result in the forecast assumptions being inaccurate and to be inappropriate.
an incorrect margin being recognised.
We consider this to be the most significant financial reporting risk for the Group principally due to the high level of management judgement inherent in the accounting for the Groups developments.
Carrying value of inventory Group Refer to page 104 of the Audit Committee Report Significant We attended surveyor counts at a sample of sites which provided Areas and Note 1.5 of the financial statements Key sources of evidence over existence of inventory as well as the basis for the estimation uncertainty for the Group.
Inventory is comprised of land held for development, work in We reviewed margins for all major sites to identify those with low progress WIP, raw materials and completed plots and part or eroding margins, for example due to specific issues or under exchange properties.
We discussed the identified sites with management, including considering the level of provisions held against these Land held for development and raw materials are held at cost.
sites and corroborated the explanations to support the carrying WIP is made up of the cost of the land being built on, direct value of inventory.
materials, direct labour costs and those overheads that have We tested the percentage completion of units across a sample of been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Completed plots are held at build cost and part sites and checked that forecasts have been appropriately updated for costs incurred to date and expected costs to completion.
exchange properties are held at the market value determined at the time of exchange.
We also assessed the historical accuracy of managements Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable forecasting.
value NRV, NRV being the estimated net selling price less We considered the level and ageing of part exchange properties costs to sell and estimated total costs of completion based on and challenged the recoverability of these assets.
We checked that appropriate site acquisition approvals had Due to the cyclical nature of the housing industry or issues been obtained for significant sites, which include consideration experienced during the build programme, there is a risk that the of site profitability.
NRV of the inventory is lower than cost and therefore inventory is held at the incorrect value.
Based on the procedures performed we did not identify any sites where we determined that additional impairments were required in the year, above those already made by management.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
| 114 Our governance Our governance How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group consists of one main trading entity and is structured into seven regions, being Mercia, West Midlands, Western, South West, Northern Home Counties, South East and Southern Counties.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall Group materiality 8.4 million 2017: 5.7 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax provides We believe that total assets provides us with us with the most appropriate benchmark given the most appropriate benchmark given the the business listed status and stakeholder business listed status and stakeholder focus focus on profits.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.4 million Group audit 2017: 0.3 million and 0.2 million Company audit 2017: 0.2 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial However, because not all future events or conditions can statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties concern.
For example, the terms on which the United to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of is currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not approval of the financial statements.
clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the potential implications on the Companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 115 Auditors report Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report, Directors report and Corporate governance statement, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate governance report on pages 67 to 81 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR in the Directors report on pages 108 to 111, is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate governance report on pages 67 to 81, and Directors report on pages 108 to 111, with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 | 116 Our governance Our governance The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 30 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 30 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 111, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 104 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 111, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
| Bovis Homes Group PLC 117 Auditors report Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the directors on 15 May 2015 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2015 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 4 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2018.
Christopher Burns Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London February 2019 | 118 Our governance
