Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Independent auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: The financial statements of BP p. l. c. the parent company and its subsidiaries the group give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31December2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended.
The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework'.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of BP p. l. c. which comprise: Group income statement: Group statement of comprehensive income: Group and parent company statements of changes in equity: Group and parent company balance sheets: Group cash flow statement: Group related Notes 1 to 38 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant policies: and Parent company related Notes 1 to 14 to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
The financial framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom accounting standards including FRS 101 United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Impairment of Upstream oil and gas property, plant and equipment PP&E assets: Accounting for acquisitions and disposals within the Upstream segment: Impairment of exploration and appraisal assets: Accounting for structured commodity transactions within the integrated supply and trading function, and the valuation of other level 3 financial instruments, where fraud risks may arise in revenue recognition: User access management controls relating to financial systems: and Management override of controls.
Two key audit matters were identified by the previous auditor and described in their report for the year ended 31 December 2017 and are not included in our report for the year ended 31 December 2018.
These were: The determination of the liabilities, contingent liabilities and disclosures arising from the Gulf of Mexico oil spill - the provisions have substantially decreased from a quantitative perspective and the level of judgement in determining BPs liabilities has reduced significantly as legal settlements have been reached: and US Tax reform - the reform was signed into law in 2017 and gave rise to a one-off taxation charge.
Whilst the impact of the reform has continued to be assessed in 2018, the judgement required and quantitative impact in the current year is considerably lower.
The previous auditor also included a key audit matter in respect of unauthorized trading activity in the integrated supply and trading function.
This is covered by the key audit matter set out above covering the accounting for structured commodity transactions and valuation of certain level 3 financial instruments.
They also identified a key audit matter in respect of the estimation of oil and gas reserves and resources, which we have considered in the context of impairment of Upstream oil and gas PP&E assets.
Materiality We have set materiality for the current year at $750 million based on profit before tax and underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax.
This page does not form part of BP's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
114 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Scoping Our scope covered 136 components.
Of these, 108 were full-scope audits, covering 71% of group revenue, and the remaining 28 were subject to specific procedures on certain account balances by component audit teams or the group audit team.
First year audit The year ended 31 December 2018 is our first as auditor of the group.
We commenced transition activities after our transition selection as auditor being announced in November 2016.
These activities included: Establishing independence from BP by exiting non-audit services which would be , as BP transitioned these to new service providers: Establishing an appropriately resourced and skilled global audit team, including specialists, in all relevant locations: Developing and delivering a bespoke BP Academy training course for Deloitte personnel joining the BP audit engagement: and Holding introductory meetings with BP management.
We commenced our audit planning procedures subsequent to us becoming independent on 16 October 2017.
After establishing independence, our work included: Shadowing the previous auditor through the 31 December 2017 audit, including attendance at key meetings, including audit committee meetings: Reviewing the previous auditors 2016 and 2017 audit files: Reviewing historical accounting policies and accounting judgements through discussion with management and review and challenge of managements papers and supporting documentation: and Conducting group audit team visits to components.
These procedures built our understanding of the group which, together with our existing knowledge of the oil and gas industry, informed our audit risk assessment, through which we identified the risks of material misstatement to the groups financial statements.
We presented our transition observations to the groups audit committee in a transition report in April 2018, with an update in May 2018.
We presented further observations, together with our audit plan, in July 2018, and provided an update to our plan in December 2018.
Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the directors statement on page 111 about whether they considered it appropriate to nothing material to report, add adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material or draw attention to in respect uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve of these matters.
months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with We confirm that we have the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation nothing material to report, add of the directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we or draw attention to in respect are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: of these matters.
the disclosures on pages 55-56 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors' confirmation on page 110 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 111 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 115 These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Throughout the course of our audit we identify risks of material misstatement risks and classify those risks according to their severity.
In assigning a category we consider both the likelihood of a risk of a material misstatement and the potential magnitude of a misstatement in making the assessment.
Certain risks are classified as significant or higher depending on their severity.
The category of the risk determines the level of evidence we seek in providing assurance that the associated financial statement item is not materially misstated.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment of upstream oil and gas PP&E assets Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter The group balance sheet includes property, plant and equipment We tested managements internal controls over the setting of oil and PP&E of $135 billion, of which $99 billion is oil and gas properties gas prices, discount rates and reserve estimates.
In addition, we within the Upstream segment.
As required by IAS 36 'Impairment of conducted the following substantive procedures.
Assets', management performed a review of the upstream cash Long-term oil and gas prices generating units CGUs for indicators of impairment and impairment We compared BPs oil and gas price assumptions against thirdreversal as at 31 December 2018. party forecasts, peer information and relevant market data to Where such indicators were identified, management estimated the determine whether BPs forecasts were within the range of such recoverable amount of the CGU to determine if any impairment forecasts.
charges or reversals were required.
For the year ended 31 December In challenging management's forecasts, we considered the 2018, BP recorded $400 million of Upstream impairment charges and extent to which they reflected the energy transition due to $580 million of impairment reversals.
Through our risk assessment procedures, we have determined that Discount rates there are three key estimates in managements review for indicators We independently evaluated BPs discount rates used in of impairment reversal and the level of impairment charge reversal to impairment tests with input from Deloitte valuation specialists.
record where indicators are identified.
These are: We assessed whether country risks were appropriately reflected Long-term oil and gas prices - BPs long-term oil and gas price in BPs discount rates.
assumptions have a significant impact on CGU impairment Reserves estimates assessments and valuations performed across the portfolio, and We performed a look-back analysis to check for indications of are inherently uncertain.
There is a risk that managements oil bias over time.
and gas price assumptions are not reasonable, leading to a material misstatement.
We reviewed BPs reserves estimation methods and policies, assisted by Deloitte reserves experts.
Discount rates - Given the long timeframes involved, certain impairment assessments and valuations are sensitive to the We assessed how these policies had been applied to seven discount rate applied.
There is a risk that discount rates do not internal reserves estimates.
reflect the return required by the market and the risks inherent in We reviewed reports provided by external experts and assessed the cash flows being discounted, leading to a material their scope of work and findings.
Determination of the appropriate discount rate We assessed the competence, capability and objectivity of BPs can be judgemental.
internal and external reserve experts, through obtaining their Reserves estimates - A key input to impairment assessments relevant professional qualifications and experience.
and valuations is the production forecast, in turn closely related Other procedures to the groups reserves estimates and field development We challenged managements cash generating unit assumptions.
CGU-specific estimates are not generally material.
determination, scrutinized the impairment and impairment However, material misstatements could arise either from reversal indicator analysis and considered whether there was any systematic flaws in reserves estimation policies, or due to flawed contradictory evidence present.
estimates in a particularly material individual impairment test.
Where such indicators were identified, we validated that BPs Whilst all CGUs must be assessed for indicators of impairment and asset impairment methodology was appropriate and tested the impairment reversal annually, we focused on certain individual CGUs integrity of impairment models.
with a total carrying value of $21.8 billion which we determined would We compared hydrocarbon production forecasts and proved and be most at risk of a material impairment $750 million as a result of a probable reserves to reserve reports and our understanding of reasonably possible change in the key assumptions, particularly the the life of fields.
long-term oil and gas price assumptions.
Accordingly, we identified We verified estimated future capital and operational costs by these as a significant audit risk.
We also focused on assets with a comparison to approved budgets and assessed them with further $31.5 billion of combined CGU carrying value which were less reference to field production forecasts.
We identified these as a higher audit risk as they would be We also assessed these estimates against managements potentially at risk in aggregate to a material impairment by a change historical forecasting accuracy and whether the estimates had in such assumptions.
Further information regarding these sensitivities been determined and applied on a consistent basis across the is given in Note 1. group where relevant.
116 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Key observations Long-term oil and gas prices We determined that BPs Brent oil price forecasts are reasonable when compared against the range of other third-party forecasts.
We challenged BPs Henry Hub, NBP and Asian LNG price curves for periods when they were somewhat higher than the range of other third-party forecasts.
However, management ran additional tests using a Henry Hub, NBP and Asian LNG price curve consistent with the range of third-party forecasts, which demonstrated that the carrying values recorded in the balance sheet are not impacted.
Discount rates Our Deloitte valuation specialists calculated a different range for weighted average cost of capital than was determined by management.
We also found that some simplifications are taken when making groupwide assumptions for country and asset-specific risk premium adjustments, and for calculating pre-tax discount rates, given the group's CGUs which operate in multiple tax jurisdictions.
Management reperformed impairment tests using higher discount rates and only one impairment test was impacted, with a difference which was not significant.
Accordingly we were satisfied with the results of the testing.
We reviewed the disclosures included in Note 1 to the accounts in respect of price and discount rate assumptions used and confirmed that they were the same as those used in the impairment tests.
Reserves estimates Having involved Deloitte oil and gas reserves experts in our testing, we concluded that the assumptions used to derive the estimates were reasonable.
Accounting for acquisitions and disposals within the Upstream segment Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter There were certain acquisition and disposal transactions within the We tested managements internal key controls over the valuation Upstream segment that required fair valuation of assets and liabilities assumptions and accounting approaches for each of these significant acquired and disposed of, and consideration of complex accounting transactions.
In addition, we conducted the following substantive judgements, to which we devoted significant engagement team time procedures: and resource.
Accordingly, this had a significant effect on our audit We reviewed the enacted sale and purchase agreements and strategy.
These transactions were: managements accounting analysis to corroborate that the The $10.3 billion acquisition of onshore US assets from BHP, accounting treatment applied was consistent with the underlying including the fair valuation of assets and liabilities acquired: commercial terms.
The disposal of BPs interest in the Greater Kuparuk Area in With input from our valuations and reserves specialist teams, we Alaska and simultaneous purchase of an incremental interest in reviewed and challenged managements fair value estimates, the BP-operated Clair field in the UK North Sea: and focusing on the key assumptions including pricing, discount rates and reserves risking estimates.
The disposal of BPs interest in the Magnus field in the North Sea, where the consideration included a level 3 financial asset, We tested the mechanical accuracy of the valuation models.
the valuation of which depends on the future performance of We assessed the independence, objectivity, competence and Magnus.
scope of work performed by BPs third-party valuation specialist used in the acquisition from BHP.
Key observations We noted that the assumptions underlying the fair value calculation for the onshore US assets acquired from BHP were at the conservative end of the range but concurred that the purchase price represented the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired, in accordance with IFRS 3.
We observed that in some cases, the fair values of oil and gas assets from certain market transactions, including the BHP acquisition, implied valuation assumptions that were more conservative than those used in value-in-use impairment calculations.
The latter, as defined in IAS 36, represents managements best estimate of the future cash flows of an asset, discounted at a market rate of return, whereas the former, as defined in IFRS 13 'Fair Value Measurement', is determined by the prices at which oil and gas assets are actually changing hands in orderly transactions under prevailing market conditions.
We concluded that in their respective IFRS contexts, and in the presence of valid evidence, the use of different assumptions to estimate fair values and value in use was appropriate.
We reviewed the disclosures included by management in Note 3 to the accounts and concluded that these are compliant with IFRS 3 requirements.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 117 Impairment of exploration and appraisal assets Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter The group capitalizes exploration and appraisal E&A expenditure on We obtained an understanding of the groups E&A impairment a project-by-project basis in line with IFRS 6 'Exploration for and assessment processes and tested managements controls.
In Evaluation of Mineral Resources'.
At the end of 2018, $16.0 billion of addition, we conducted the following substantive procedures: E&A expenditure was carried in the group balance sheet.
E&A We reviewed and challenged managements significant IFRS 6 activity is inherently risky and a significant proportion of projects fail, impairment judgements, guided by our risk assessment, having requiring the write-off of the related capitalized costs when the regard to the impairment criteria of IFRS 6 and BPs accounting policy.
relevant criteria in IFRS 6 and BPs accounting policy are met.
We verified key facts relevant to significant carrying amounts e. g. There is a risk that certain capitalized E&A costs are not written off obtaining evidence of future E&A plans and budgets, evidence of promptly at the appropriate time, in line with information from, and active dialogue with partners and regulators including negotiations to decisions about E&A activities, and the impairment requirements of renew licences or modify key terms.
We performed a licence-by-licence risk assessment of the groups Through our detailed risk assessment, which is based on our analysis E&A balance through to year end, to identify significant carrying of the portfolio of E&A assets held by BP, making reference to BPs amounts with a significant current period risk of impairment e. g. new own analysis of the same assets, we identified a significant risk in information from exploration activities, or imminent licence expiry.
respect of certain specific assets in the Gulf of Mexico with a total We performed a look-back analysis of impairment charges recorded in carrying value of $2.3 billion, as certain licences in question have the period, and assessed whether impairment charges were timely.
expired and a partner has recently withdrawn from other licences, We tested the completeness and accuracy of information used in and three licences elsewhere $1.6 billion which are scheduled to managements E&A impairment assessment, by reviewing and expire or require next phase decisions in 2019.
BP is in negotiations testing key controls over managements register of E&A licences and to extend all these licences.
Further details regarding the significant vouching key aspects of this to underlying support e. g. licence accounting judgement are given in Note 1 to the accounts.
documentation : holding meetings and discussions with operational and finance management: considering adverse changes in managements reserves and resource estimates associated with E&A assets: reviewing correspondence with regulators and joint arrangement partners: and considering the implications of capital allocation decisions.
When considering capital allocation decision making, we considered whether any projects are unlikely to proceed on the grounds that they are not currently consistent with BPs strategy or which would otherwise have a prohibitively high environmental or social impact for the directors to sanction the necessary investment.
Key observations We concluded that the key assumptions had been appropriately determined, the judgements management had made were appropriately supported, and no additional impairments were identified from the work we performed.
Where BP had concluded that E&A costs should continue to be carried in respect of projects where licences had expired, we obtained appropriate evidence that there was ongoing correspondence with the relevant regulatory bodies, as referred to in Note 1 to the financial statements, to support managements judgement.
We also confirmed management's view that they did not consider that the development of any of their assets is inconsistent with BPs strategy and stated climate change ambitions.
118 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Accounting for structured commodity transactions SCTs within the integrated supply and trading function IST, and the valuation of other level 3 financial instruments, where fraud risks may arise in revenue recognition Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter In the normal course of business, the integrated supply and trading Accounting for structured commodity transactions: function IST enters into a variety of transactions for delivering value For structured commodity transactions, we performed audit across the groups supply chain.
The nature of these transactions procedures to: requires significant audit effort be directed towards challenging Evaluate the design, implementation and operating effectiveness managements valuation estimates or the adopted accounting of controls related to the review of such non-standard treatment.
transactions, including the: Accounting for structured commodity transactions: IST may also New activity integration control, which is designed to enter into a variety of transactions which we refer to as SCTs.
We evaluate and approve the appropriateness of the new generally consider a SCT to be an arrangement having one of the activity: and following features: Accounting policy review, which is designed to evaluate the a two or more counterparties with non-standard contractual appropriateness of accounting treatment in line with terms: published IFRS accounting literature.
b multiple commodity-based transactions: and or Develop an understanding of the commercial rationale of the c contractual arrangements entered into in contemplation of each transactions through review of executed transaction documents other.
SCTs are often long-dated, can have a significant multi-year financial Perform a detailed accounting analysis for a sample of structured impact, and may require the use of complex valuation models or commodity transactions involving significant day 1 profits, unobservable market inputs when determining their fair value, in working capital arrangements, offtake arrangements and or which case they will be classified as level 3 financial instruments commitments.
under IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
To assess the appropriateness of the accounting treatment of SCTs, There are inherent risks in the accounting for SCTs as these we embedded technical accounting specialists on the audit team to contracts are often complex and the associated accounting assist in performing an assessment of the treatment applied by considerations often feature multiple elements, which are subject to management.
management judgement, that will have a material impact on the Other level 3 financial instruments: presentation and disclosure of these transactions on the primary To address the complexities associated with auditing the value of financial statements and key performance measures, including in level 3 financial instruments, our team included valuation specialists particular whether finance debt should be recognized.
We have having significant quantitative and modelling expertise to assist in identified the accounting for SCTs as a significant audit risk.
Our valuation audit procedures Level 3 financial instruments: Unlike other financial instruments included the following control and substantive procedures: whose values or inputs are readily observable and therefore more We tested the design and operating effectiveness of the groups easily independently corroborated, there are certain transactions for valuation controls including the: which the valuation is inherently more subjective due to the use of Model certification control, which is designed to review a either bespoke valuation models and or unobservable inputs.
These models theoretical soundness and the appropriateness of its instruments are classified as level 3 financial assets or liabilities valuation methodology: and under IFRS 13.
This degree of subjectivity also gives rise to potential Independent price verification control, which is designed to fraud through management incorporating bias in determining fair review the appropriateness of valuation inputs that are not values.
Accordingly, we have identified these as a significant audit observable and are significant to the financial instruments risk, and the area in which a fraud risk is most likely to arise in valuation.
We performed substantive valuation testing procedures at interim As at 31 December 2018, the groups total financial assets and and year-end balance sheet dates, including: liabilities measured at fair value were $12.8 billion and $8.9 billion, of Developing independent estimates, using externally sourced which level 3 derivative financial instruments were $3.6 billion and inputs and challenger models to evaluate against managements $3.1 billion, respectively.
fair value estimates by evaluating whether the differences between our independent estimates and managements estimates were within a reasonable range: Evaluating managements valuation methodologies against standard valuation practice and analysing whether a consistent framework is applied across the business period over period: and Benchmarking managements input assumptions against the expected assumptions of other market participants and observable market data.
Key observations We reviewed the features of 10 SCTs and determined that the accounting adopted for each of these was appropriate and in accordance with IFRS.
We concluded that managements valuations relating to level 3 instruments were appropriate.
We did not identify any transactions, valuation estimates or accounting entries which were the result of fraudulent misrepresentation of revenue recognition.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 119 User access management controls relating to financial systems Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter The groups financial systems environment is complex, with 107 We obtained an understanding of managements processes and separate systems scoped as being relevant for the group audit.
In relevant financial systems and tested the associated general IT addition, during the year, BP changed one of its key IT service controls.
This testing led us to identify a number of deficiencies, providers.
notably in relation to user access.
Due to the reliance on financial systems within the group, controls In responding to the identified deficiencies in user access we have over system user access are critical to maintaining an effective used our teams of IT and internal control specialists to: control environment.
Test the controls that management has implemented or reAs a result of our procedures, we identified a number of deficiencies designed in order to remediate the deficiencies: relating to user access management, both within the group and the Assess and test the alternative or compensating controls that groups IT service organizations together access deficiencies.
The management has identified as mitigating access deficiencies, access deficiencies identified increase the risk that individuals within including the direct assessment of those controls operated by the group and at service organizations had inappropriate access the legacy and new IT service organizations and identified during the period.
The existence of deficiencies during the year and at business controls that do not rely on information that is the year end, and the transition of the main IT service organization potentially affected by the access deficiencies: and from one supplier to another during the year, result in an increased Determine the impact that utilizing inappropriate levels of access risk that data and reports from the affected systems are not reliable.
could feasibly have had on the affected systems including The issues identified impact all components within the scope of our assessing the likelihood of inappropriate user access impacting group audit.
the financial statements, and testing controls implemented by The group put in place a programme of activities to remediate the management to identify instances of the use of inappropriate deficiencies, which extends into 2019.
Accordingly, management also access, working with both the legacy and new IT service organizations.
identified mitigating and compensating controls, and in particular established controls to analyse, through exploitation analyses, whether inappropriate access had been exploited during the year, working with both the legacy and new IT service organizations.
The user access management controls are pervasive to the groups operations and accordingly the level of risk ascribed to our work in this area is dependent on the nature and complexity of the control itself and balances within the financial statements the control addresses.
Key observations Our review of the analysis management performed to identify whether the access deficiencies were exploited during the year did not identify instances where such access had been used inappropriately.
As a result, we were satisfied with the results of the remediation to date and mitigation activities such that we continued to adopt an audit approach which places reliance on the effectiveness of financial controls and which, under our methodology, enables us to apply lower sample sizes in our substantive testing.
Management continues to work, with the support of the new IT service provider, to remediate fully the access deficiencies identified.
120 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Management override of controls Key audit matter description How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter We conducted a risk assessment for management override fraud We tested the relevant primary and, where necessary, compensating risks by considering: controls that management identified as responding to the risk of fraudulent journal entries.
Potential areas where the groups financial statements could be manipulated: In addition, we have: Pressures or incentives to achieve certain IFRS or non-GAAP Made inquiries of individuals involved in the financial reporting measures due to the remuneration arrangements of people in process about inappropriate or unusual activity relating to the Financial Reporting Oversight Roles FRORs, including processing of journal entries and other adjustments.
management and senior executives: Identified and tested relevant entity-level controls, in particular Potential for inappropriate accounting estimates and those related to the BP Code of Conduct, whistleblowing BP judgements: and OpenTalk and controls monitoring financial reporting processes Accounting for significant unusual transactions and estimates and financial results.
arising from changes to the business.
Used our data analytics tools to select journal entries and other Our response to the risk of management override of controls adjustments made at the end of a reporting period or otherwise included testing the appropriateness of journal entries recorded in the having characteristics which are associated with common fraud general ledger.
We identified control deficiencies at components schemes for testing.
where testing was performed and as a result, our audit approach Tested journal entries and other adjustments recorded in the required adjustment.
Management remediated the control general ledger throughout the period, with a particular focus on deficiencies identified where it was possible to do so.
Some adjustments that occur late in the financial close process.
remediation activity will continue into 2019 and accordingly, We have reviewed accounting estimates for bias and evaluated management also directed us to other compensating controls which whether the circumstances producing the bias, if any, represent a risk they considered to mitigate the risks, which we subsequently tested.
of material misstatement due to fraud.
A number of the most This had a bearing on the allocation of resources in the audit, and the significant estimates are covered by the other Key Audit Matters set direction of effort of the audit team.
Accordingly, we identified this as out above.
This assessment included: a key audit matter.
Evaluating whether the judgements and decisions made by management in making the accounting estimates included in the financial statements, even if they are individually reasonable, indicate a possible bias on the part of BP's management that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud: and Performing a retrospective review of management judgements and assumptions related to significant accounting estimates reflected in the financial statements of the prior year.
We considered whether there were any significant transactions that are outside the normal course of business, or that otherwise appear to be unusual due to their nature, timing or size.
The risks and responses to the revenue recognition risks within the integrated supply and trading function are set out above.
Key observations The nature of the identified deficiencies over journal-entry controls varies from business to business, so there is no single root cause.
At the year end: In some businesses these operating effectiveness deficiencies were able to be remediated by management and our testing of the remediation concluded it was effective.
In other businesses the deficiencies could not be quickly remediated and management identified direct and precise compensating controls to mitigate the design deficiencies identified.
These compensating controls included low-level analytical reviews e. g. individual asset reviews, controls over closing balances, period-end analytical review controls, and certain automated business controls.
Our testing of these compensating controls concluded that they were, in combination, appropriately designed and implemented and that they were operating effectively for the period.
Our substantive testing of the journal entries and other adjustments, selected through the use of data analytics tools, did not identify any inappropriate items, and accordingly we concluded that there was no evidence of management override.
We did not identify any evidence of overall bias or any significant unusual transactions for which the business rationale or the lack thereof of the transaction suggested that it may have been entered into to engage in fraudulent financial reporting or to conceal misappropriation of assets.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: This page does not form part of BP's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 121 Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality Materiality has been set at $750 million for the current Materiality has been set at $1,200 million for the year.
In 2017, the previous auditor used a materiality of current year.
In 2017, the previous auditor used a $500 million.
This reflects BPs financial performance in materiality of $1,300 million.
Basis for determining We used a number of metrics to determine group We determined materiality for our audit of the materiality materiality, most notably profit before taxation and standalone parent using 1% of net assets.
underlying replacement cost profit before interest and taxation.
Our selected materiality figure represents 4.5% of profit before taxation, and 3.2% of underlying replacement cost profit before interest and taxation.
In 2017, the previous auditor used 5% of underlying replacement cost profit before interest and taxation to determine materiality.
Rationale for the We conducted an assessment of which line items we The materiality determined for the standalone parent benchmark applied understand to be the most important to investors and company financial statements exceeds the group analysts by reviewing analyst reports and BPs materiality as it is determined on a different basis given communications to shareholders and lenders, as well the nature of the operations.
As the company is nonas the communications of peer companies.
This trading and operates primarily as a holding company, assessment resulted in us selecting the financial we believe the net asset position is the most statement line items above.
Profit before tax is the benchmark ordinarily considered Where there were balances and transactions within the by us when auditing listed entities.
It provides parent company accounts that were within the scope comparability against other companies across all of the audit of the group financial statements, our sectors, but has limitations when auditing companies procedures were undertaken using the lower whose earnings are strongly correlated to commodity materiality level applying to the group audit prices, which can be volatile from one period to the components.
It was only for the purposes of testing next, and therefore may not be representative of the balances not relevant to the group audit, such as volume of transactions and the overall size of the intercompany investment balances, that the higher business in the year.
level of materiality applied in practice.
Whilst not a GAAP measure, underlying replacement cost profit before interest and tax is one of the key metrics communicated by management in BP's results announcements.
It excludes some of the volatility arising from changes in crude oil, gas and product prices as well as non-operating items and this was also the key measure applied by the previous auditor when determining materiality in 2017.
Performance materiality, which is the value that determines the extent of our audit sampling, has been set at $375 million which is 50% of group materiality 2017 75%.
Given overall group materiality is higher in 2018 reflecting the improved results of the business, performance materiality could also be set at a higher level but we judged it to be appropriate to constrain this for 2018 given it is our first year as auditor, which gives a potentially heightened risk of not identifying misstatements due to us having a lower level of knowledge of the business than a recurring auditor would have.
We agreed with the Main Board Audit Committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of $25 million 2017 $25 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit As a result of the highly disaggregated nature of the group, with operations in over 70 countries through approximately 1,000 components, a significant portion of our audit planning effort was ensuring that the scope of our work is appropriate in addressing the identified risks of material misstatement.
122 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 The factors that we considered when assessing the scope of the BP audit, and the level of work to be performed at the components that are in scope for group reporting purposes, included the following: The financial significance of an operating unit to BPs revenue and profit before tax, or PP&E, including consideration of the financial significance of specific account balances or transactions.
The significance of specific risks relating to an operating unit, history of unusual or complex transactions, identification of significant audit issues or the potential for, or a history of, material misstatements.
The effectiveness of the control environment and monitoring activities, including entity-level controls.
The findings, observations and audit differences that we noted as a result of the previous auditors 2016 and 2017 audit engagements.
To ensure we were able to obtain sufficient, appropriate audit evidence for the purposes of our audit of the financial statements, we performed full scope audit procedures for 108 reporting consolidation units 'cons units' or components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
Our full-scope audits are in the UK, US, Angola, Azerbaijan, Germany and Singapore.
One of the full-scope cons units includes the investment in Rosneft, a material associate not controlled by BP.
In addition, we performed audit procedures on specified account balances by local teams for 16 cons units also covering operations in Trinidad & Tobago and Australia.
We performed audit procedures on specified account balances by segment teams to component materiality, with certain additional specific procedures performed by local teams, covering an additional 12 cons units.
In our assessment of the residual balances, we have considered in particular the risk that there could be a material misstatement within the large number of geographically dispersed businesses, in particular within the Downstream segment.
This assessment included use of our analytic tools to interrogate data, preparation of trend analysis and comparison of business performance to market benchmark prices.
We concluded that through this additional risk assessment, we have reduced the audit risk of such a misstatement arising to a sufficiently low level.
The remaining components are not significant individually and include many small, low risk components and balances.
On average, they each represent 0.06% of group revenue and 0.08% of property, plant and equipment.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including conducting analytical review procedures, making inquiries, and evaluating and testing managements group-wide controls across a range of locations and segments in order to address the risk of residual misstatement on a segment-wide and component basis.
Oversight of component auditors The group audit team provides direct oversight, review, and coordination of our local audit teams.
The group audit team interacted regularly with the local Deloitte teams during each stage of the audit, were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process and reviewed key working papers.
We maintained continuous and open dialogue with our local teams in addition to holding formal meetings quarterly to ensure that we were fully aware of their progress and results of their procedures.
The senior statutory auditor and other group audit partners and staff visited local component teams in all of the locations named above.
These visits included attending planning meetings, discussing the audit approach and any issues arising from the component team's work, meetings with local management, and reviewing key audit working papers on higher and significant-risk areas to drive a consistent and high-quality audit.
We were provided with direct access to Rosnefts auditor in order to evaluate their audit work on the financial statements of Rosneft, used as the basis for BPs equity accounting.
We held meetings with Rosnefts auditor throughout the year, issued audit instructions to them, reviewed their written clearance reports responding to these instructions and, through our direct access, were able to exercise appropriate supervision and oversight of their audit work.
We also tested directly BPs procedures and controls over its accounting for the investment in Rosneft.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 123 Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included We have nothing to in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable - the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting - the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code - the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user, taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: frc.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: Meeting throughout the year with the group head of ethics and compliance and reviewing BPs internal ethics and compliance reporting summaries, including concerning investigations: Enquiring of management, internal audit, and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: Discussing among the engagement team regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
The engagement team includes audit partners and staff who have extensive experience of working with companies in the same sectors as BP operates, and this experience was relevant to the discussion about where fraud risks may arise.
The discussions also involved fraud experts from Deloittes forensic accounting function in the Corporate Finance service line, who advised the engagement team of fraud schemes that had arisen in similar sectors and industries and participated in the initial fraud risk assessment brainstorming discussions: and Obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that we determined had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
These include This page does not form part of BP's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
124 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 the UK Companies Act, UK Corporate Governance Code, IFRS as issued by the IASB and adopted by the EU, FRS 101, US Securities Exchange Act 1934 and relevant SEC regulations, as well as laws and regulations prevailing in each country in which we identified a fullscope component.
In addition, we considered compliance with terms of the groups operating licence regulatory solvency requirements environmental regulations when assessing the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we did not identify any key audit matters related to the potential risk of non-compliance with laws and regulations.
We did identify two key audit matters relating to fraud risks, as described above.
Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: Reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: Enquiring of management, the audit committee and legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: Performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: Reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: and In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members, including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: The information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and The strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect of We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or these matters.
Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration We have nothing to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors report in respect of remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure The board appointed Deloitte as the companys auditor with effect from 29 March 2018 to fill the vacancy arising from the resignation of the previous auditor.
On 21 May 2018, shareholders resolved at the annual general meeting to appoint Deloitte as auditor from the conclusion of the meeting until the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held in 2019 and authorized the directors to set the audit fees.
The first accounting period we audited was the 12 months ended 31 December 2018.
In 2017, we commenced our audit planning procedures.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is accordingly one year.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Douglas King FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 29March2019 This page does not form part of BP's Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 125
