Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: the financial statements of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC the parent company and its subsidiaries the group give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the consolidated income statement: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: the consolidated and parent company balance sheets: the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated and parent company cash flow statements: and, the related notes 1 to 33.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year which are consistent with the prior year were: Revenue recognition: Impairment of goodwill and client relationships: and Assumptions underlying the calculation of the pension scheme liability.
Materiality The materiality that we used in the current year was 3.4m, which was determined on the basis of 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations and is consistent with our approach for the 2017 audit.
Scoping The scope of our audit covered substantially the entire group, with the following entities in scope, in addition to the parent company: Brewin Dolphin Limited: Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited: and Brewin Dolphin MP Limited.
Significant changes in our approach There have been no significant changes in our audit approach in 2018.
co. uk INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that We have reviewed the directors statement in note 3 to the financial statements about whether they considered we have nothing it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material to report, material uncertainties to the groups and companys ability to continue to do so for the foreseeable future, add or draw being over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
attention to in respect of We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that these matters.
statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the we have nothing knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the material to report, directors assessment of the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required add or draw to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: attention to in respect of the disclosures on pages 28-32 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed these matters.
or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 80 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 33 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the audit team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition Description As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies in note 3, revenue comprises investment management fees of 233.9m 2017: 217.1m, commissions of 67.8m 2017: 66.0m and other income of 27.3m 2017: 21.4m.
Investment management fees account for approximately 71% of total revenue and are based on a percentage of individual clients funds under management.
There is a risk that incorrect rates or fund valuations are used to calculate management fees.
This risk increases where amendments are required to be made to system calculated fees due to the requirement for manual intervention.
We have also identified this as a risk relating to fraud.
How the scope of our audit We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over responded the calculation of management fees.
This included controls over system generated investment management fees, including associated IT controls and controls over amendments to client fees.
We selected a sample of quarterly investment management fee calculations for individual clients and recalculated the system generated amount.
We agreed a sample of the rates used to client contracts and the value of funds under management to third party sources including the rationale and authorisation of any amendments to the system generated fee.
We reviewed client communications for a sample of clients to challenge the completeness of manual fee amendments.
Key observations Through our testing, we concluded that management fees were appropriately stated for the year ended 30 September 2018.
Brewin Dolphin 82 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Impairment of goodwill and client relationships Description Historically, the group has expanded through acquisitions leading to the recognition of goodwill and client relationships of 83.2m 2017: 90.5m.
As detailed in the summary of significant accounting policies in note 3 and note 13 intangible assets, client relationships are reviewed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date and, if an indicator of impairment exists, an impairment test is performed.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually, whether or not indicators of impairment exist.
The impairment test requires an estimation of the recoverable amount for each of the groups cash-generating units CGUs and where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount an impairment should be recorded.
This assessment is based on estimates of the fair value less costs to sell of CGUs based on a percentage of funds under management FUM.
The percentages used are inherently judgemental.
Given the amortisation of client relationships and growth in FUM, the impairment tests at the balance sheet date were not sensitive to reasonably possible changes in the percentages applied to FUM.
Consequently, management has determined that the estimation of the percentages applied to FUM is no longer a key source of estimation uncertainty.
However, given the size of the balance, the level of management judgement in the overall impairment assessment and the amount of audit effort in this area, we still consider this to be a key audit matter.
How the scope of our audit We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over responded the production of funds under management data, designed to ensure its completeness and accuracy.
In assessing managements impairment assessment for intangible assets, we have reviewed their methodology for compliance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets and challenged the assumptions and judgements made.
This included challenging the percentages management applied to market values of FUM to determine fair value, and validating these against percentages derived from recent public acquisitions of fund management businesses and the sensitivity of the impairment assessment to changes in the percentages applied.
Key observations Through our testing, we concurred with managements assessment that no impairments were required to goodwill or client relationships.
We also concurred with managements judgement that the percentages applied to FUM are no longer a key source of estimation uncertainty.
Assumptions underlying the calculation of the pension scheme liability Description The group has recognised a defined benefit pension surplus of 11.4m 2017: 4.5m surplus.
The net surplus comprises assets of 106.9m and liabilities of 95.5m.
The calculation of the liability is sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions and is considered to be a key source of estimation uncertainty for the group as detailed in note 4, disclosed in note 17 and has been considered by the Audit Committee on page 57.
The key assumptions are the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality rate where small changes to these assumptions could result in a material change to the pension liability valuation.
How the scope of our audit In order to evaluate the appropriateness of the assumptions used by management, we assessed the responded design and implementation of controls over the review of assumptions and used our own actuarial experts to make direct enquiries of the groups actuary and review the key actuarial assumptions adopted in the IAS 19 Employee Benefits pension valuation.
In particular we compared the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions to our independently determined benchmarks derived using market and other data.
Key observations Through the work performed, we concluded that the assumptions underlying the pension scheme liability for the year ended 30 September 2018 were appropriate.
co. uk INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 3.4m 2017: 2.9m 2.5m 2017: 2.8m Basis for 5% of profit before tax from continuing operations We determined materiality based on 1% determining materiality which is consistent with our approach for the prior of net assets.
Rationale for the Profit before tax was used as the basis for The parent company primarily holds the benchmark applied determining materiality as this is the key metric investments in group entities and, therefore, used by members of the parent company and net assets is considered to be the key focus other relevant stakeholders in assessing financial for users of the financial statements.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of 5% of materiality, 170,000 2017: 5% of materiality 144,000, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The change in the reporting threshold has been made to align with the thresholds typically used in listed company audits.
We also report to the audit committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the group and its environment, including group-wide controls and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the group level.
The group consists of the main trading subsidiary, Brewin Dolphin Limited along with Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, Brewin Dolphin MP Limited, and BDDL Limited.
We focused our group audit scope primarily on Brewin Dolphin Limited which was subject to a full audit, and Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited and Brewin Dolphin MP were subject to an audit of specified account balances.
BDDL limited was scoped out for this years audit which is consistent with the prior year following the transfer of net assets to Brewin Dolphin Limited.
Our full scope audits and audits of specified balances covered 99% 2017: 98% of the groups revenue and profit before tax.
Our audit of Brewin Dolphin Limited used a component materiality of 3.3m 2017: 2.8m.
The majority of the operations of the group are based in the United Kingdom and are audited by Deloitte LLP.
The only exception to this is Tilman Brewin Dolphin Limited, an Irish company, which represents less than 2.5% 2017: 2.5% of revenue and is audited by another Deloitte member firm which is consistent with the prior year.
Brewin Dolphin 84 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
to report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
co. uk INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management, Internal Audit and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, pensions, IT and industry specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the following areas: revenue recognition, management override of controls and the impairment of goodwill and client relationships: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the Financial Conduct Authoritys regulations, the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, pensions legislation and tax legislation.
In addition, the groups regulatory solvency requirements were considered in assessing the directors going concern statement.
Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified revenue recognition and impairment of goodwill and client relationships as key audit matters.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the Audit Committee and in-house and external legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing Internal Audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC and the Financial Conduct Authority: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
Brewin Dolphin 86 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: of these matters.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing Directors remuneration to report in respect Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors of these matters.
remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2002 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2002 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 17 years, covering the years ended 30 September 2002 to 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Robert Topley FCA Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 27 November 2018 Brewin Dolphin 87 www.
