Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Independent auditors report @ to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only 1 Our opinion is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group and parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statements and the related notes, including accounting policies in note 1.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Additional opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the note to the Group financial statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the Directors on 23 March 2015.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 4 financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion.
We do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Litigations and contingent liabilities Refer to page 65 Audit Committee report, page 133 accounting policy and pages 192 to 211 financial disclosures.
The risk: Dispute outcome: The Group is subject to a large volume of claims including class actions, which could have a significant impact on the results if the potential exposures were to materialise.
For our 2018 audit we believe the most significant risk relates to ongoing smoking and health litigation brought against the operating Company by the province of Quebec, Canada, which is disclosed in note 28 contingent liabilities and financial commitments and due to be ruled on by the Quebec Court of Appeal imminently.
This assessment is consistent with our 2017 audit.
The amounts involved are significant, and the application of accounting standards to determine the amount, if any, to be provided as a liability or disclosed as a contingent liability, is inherently subjective.
This includes assumptions relating to the likelihood and or timing of cash outflows from the business and the interpretation of preliminary and pending court rulings.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the potential exposure to litigation has a high degree of judgement, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
Our procedures included: Control design and operation: Evaluating the processes and controls over litigations operated by Management at Group, regional and local level through regular meetings with in-house legal counsel and review of Board and sub-committee meeting minutes: Enquiry of lawyers: Assessing the status of cases through inspection of written confirmations from the Groups external counsel, correspondence between the Group and their external counsel and discussions with and representations from in-house counsel BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 115 Financial Statements Independent auditors report @ to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only continued Our legal expertise: With the assistance of KPMG legal specialists of the Canadian component audit team, we assessed the relevant historical and recent judgments passed by the judicial court authorities in relation to the Quebec, Canada litigation, as well as the written confirmations of current status from external counsel, in order to challenge the basis used for the accounting treatment and resulting disclosures: and Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures in note 28 regarding contingent liabilities and financial commitments adequately disclose the relevant facts and circumstances and potential liabilities of the Group.
Our results: From the evidence obtained, we found the Groups treatment of the litigation and contingent liabilities and related disclosures to be acceptable.
Goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles impairment arising from the Reynolds American Inc. acquisition in 2017.
Refer to page 66 Audit Committee report, page 130 accounting policy and pages 151 and 152 financial disclosures The risk: Subjective valuation: As a result of the acquisition of Reynolds American Inc. in 2017, the Group, as at 31 December 2018 has goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles of 35,337 million and 73,885 million, respectively 2017: goodwill of 34,280 million and indefinite lived intangibles of 69,562 million.
There is significant judgement with regard to assumptions and estimates involved in the forecasting of future cash flows, which form the basis of the assessment of the recoverability of the goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets.
The key assumption included is the forecast revenue growth rate, which is dependent on macro and micro-economic factors, as well as potential regulatory change in the US.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we determined that the value in use of calculations of both the goodwill and the indefinite lived intangible assets has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
The financial statements note 9 disclose the sensitivity of the carrying amounts of the Goodwill estimated by the Group.
Our procedures included: Control design and operation: Assessing the US operating Companys budgeting processes and controls as well as the review and approval procedures upon which the cash flow forecasts are based for each of the individual brands recognised as indefinite lived intangibles and for the overall operating Company as it pertains to the associated goodwill.
Assessing assumptions: Critically assessing the Groups assertion not to include any impact of the potential menthol ban into the cash flow forecast or the discount rate by inspecting the US operating Companys correspondence with external counsel, inspecting analyst and industry reports, and by inspecting scientific studies and representations from in-house counsel with regard to the likelihood, timing, nature and extent of proposed potential regulatory changes to the US market.
Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the US operating Companys revenue growth and terminal growth assumptions to externally derived publicly and privately available data, including, but not limited to, broker and analyst reports, industry reports, macro-economic assumptions, and academic and scientific studies.
Historical comparisons: Challenging the reasonableness of the assumptions, particularly forecast revenue, by assessing the historical accuracy of the Groups forecasting at a brand level for each of the indefinite lived intangibles and at a cash generating unit level for the goodwill.
Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on the assumptions noted above.
Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups disclosures detailing the key estimates and judgements with regard to the impairment testing of the goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles arising from the acquisition of Reynolds American Inc. Our results: We found the Directors assessment of the estimate of the recoverability of the goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles arising from the acquisition of Reynolds American Inc. to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Recoverability of parent Companys investment in subsidiaries.
Refer to page 248 accounting policy and page 249 financial disclosures Low risk, high value: The carrying amount of the Parent Companys investments in subsidiaries is 27,901 million 2017: 27,898 million which represents 77% 2017: 77% of the Companys total assets.
Their recoverability is not a high risk of significant misstatement or subject to significant judgement.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the Parent Company financial statements, this is considered to be the area that had the greatest effect on our overall Parent Company audit.
Our procedures included: Tests of detail: Comparing the carrying amount of a sample of the highest value investments, representing 100% 2017: 98% of the total investment balance with the relevant subsidiaries draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount and assessing whether those subsidiaries have historically been profitmaking.
Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the audit work performed over the subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Our results: We found the Directors assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
116 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 420 million 2017: 330 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before taxation.
This represents 4.8% 2017: 4.8% of the Groups reported profit before taxation.
Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at 50m 2017: 35m by reference to component materiality.
This is lower than the materiality we would otherwise have determined by reference to Company net assets.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 20 million 2017: 16 million in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Scope of our audit The Group operates three shared service centres 2017: three in Romania, Malaysia and Costa Rica, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the reporting components they service and therefore they are not separate reporting components.
Each of the service centres is subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review controls.
Additional procedures are performed at certain reporting components to address the audit risks not covered by the work performed over the shared service centres.
We performed audits for Group reporting purposes of 23 components 2017: 35 components.
One of these components was the Parent Company.
Audits of these components were performed using materiality levels assigned by the group audit team, which were lower than the materiality level for the Group as a whole, ranging from 35 million to 220 million 2017: 1 million to 200 million, and determined by reference to the size and risk profile of the components.
Audits of one or more account balances were performed in respect of a further 14 components 2017: 20, using a materiality ranging from 1 million to 50 million 2017: 1 to 35 million assigned by the Group audit team.
Specified risk-focused audit procedures have been performed at 2 components 2017: 5 in relation to tax exposures and financing, using a materiality of 35 million.
These 16 components for which we performed work other than audits for group reporting purposes were not individually significant but were included in the scope of our Group reporting work in order to provide further coverage over the Groups results.
This is consistent with the approach that was adopted in 2017.
The work on 32 of the 39 components 2017: 54 of the 60 components was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
The percentages of the Groups revenue, the total profits and losses that make up the Groups revenue, Groups profit before taxation and the Groups total assets represented by the components within the scope of our work and procedures performed at corporate level are as follows: Group revenue Group profit before tax Group total assets 3 2 3 2 3 9 6 93 82% 78% 97% 2017: 84% 2017: 95% 2017: 98% 16 62 75 90 76 94 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Audit of one or more account balances 2018 Audit of one or more account balances 2017 specified risk-focused audit procedures 2018 Residual components specified risk-focused audit procedures 2017 The remaining 18% 2017: 16% of total group revenue, 22% 2017: 5% of group profit before tax and 3% 2017: 2% of total group assets is represented by 347 2017: over 214 reporting components, none of which individually represented more than 2.3% 2017: 1.6% of any of total group revenue, group profit before tax or total group assets.
For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
The Group team instructed component auditors, and the auditors of the shared service centres, as to the significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the information to be reported back.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 117 Financial Statements Independent auditors report @ to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only continued The Group team visited two 2017: three component locations in Canada and the United States 2017: Brazil, Canada and the United States for the purpose of performing detailed file reviews.
In addition, the Group team visited the shared service centres in Costa Rica, Malaysia and Romania 2017: Costa Rica, Malaysia and Romania as well as visiting a further three 2017: three component locations in Bangladesh, South Africa and Italy 2017: The Netherlands, Poland and South Korea for business understanding and risk assessment purposes.
In addition the Group audit team held audit risk planning and strategy conferences in the United Kingdom which component auditors attended.
Further to these visits and conferences, the Group team also held telephone and or online meetings as part of the audit planning phase to explain our audit instructions and discuss the component auditors plans as well as performing detailed remote file reviews upon completion of the component auditors engagements.
The findings reported to the Group audit team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then performed by the component auditor.
4 We have nothing to report on going concern The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements the going concern period.
Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.
The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Groups and Companys available financial resources over this period were: The enactment of regulation that significantly impairs the Groups ability to communicate, differentiate, market or launch its products Product liability, regulatory or other significant cases may be lost or compromised resulting in a material loss or other consequence As these were risks that could potentially cast significant doubt on the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we considered sensitivities over the level of available financial resources indicated by the Groups financial forecasts taking account of reasonably possible but not unrealistic adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively, and evaluated the achievability of the actions the Directors consider they would take to improve the position should the risks materialise.
We also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit and the erosion of customer or supplier confidence, which could result in a rapid reduction of available financial resources.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 42 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not identify going concern as a key audit matter.
5 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and Directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors report: in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
118 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Disclosures of principal risks and longerterm viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 48 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Group risk factors disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the principle group risk factors.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and the Parent Companys longer-term viability.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 119 Financial Statements Independent auditors report @ to the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. only continued 7 Respective responsibilities Directors responsibilities As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 114, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience and through discussion with the Directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the Directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the Group audit team to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: impact of laws and regulations related to anti-bribery and corruption reflecting the legislative environment of operating with a diverse geographic footprint and tobacco control and product liability reflecting the nature of the operating businesses.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Further details in respect of tobacco control and product liability is set out in the key audit matter disclosures in section 2 of this report.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and terms of our engagement by the Company.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and further matters we are required to state to them in accordance with terms agreed with the Company, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Mark Baillache Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 27 February 2019 120 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Stockholders and Board of Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. Opinions on the Consolidated Financial Statements and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting We have audited the accompanying Group Balance Sheets of British American Tobacco and subsidiaries the Group as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the related Group Income statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group Statement of Changes in Equity, and Group Cash Flow Statement for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2018 and the related notes collectively, the Groups consolidated financial statements.
We also have audited the Groups internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2018, in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Also in our opinion, the Group maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2018 based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Basis for Opinions The Groups management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Managements report on internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Groups consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Groups internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Group in accordance with the U. S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.
Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
We have served as the Groups auditor since 2015.
KPMG LLP London, United Kingdom 27 February, 2019 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 121
