INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH EMPIRE TRUST PLC 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of British Empire Trust plc the Company for the year ended 30 September 2018 which comprise Materiality: 10.3m the Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes in Equity, financial statements 1% of total assets Balance Sheet, Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes, including as a whole the accounting policies in note 1.
Risks of material misstatement Versus 2017 In our opinion the financial statements: Recurring risk Carrying amount of listed tu give a true and fair view of the state of Companys affairs as at equity investments 30 September 2018 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 20 December 2016.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the two financial years ended 30 September 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Company in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matter unchanged from 2017 in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address this matter and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
This matter was addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on this matter.
The risk Our response Carrying amount of listed Low risk: high value: Our procedures included: equity investments The Companys portfolio of listed equity investments Test of detail: Agreeing the valuation of 965m: 2017: 921m makes up 93.4% 2017: 93.9% of the Companys 100 per cent of listed equity investments in the total assets by value and is considered to be the portfolio to externally quoted prices: and Refer to pages 73 to 75 key driver of results.
We do not consider these Enquiry of custodians: Agreeing 100% of listed Report of the Audit Committee, investments to be at a high risk of significant equity investment holdings in the portfolio to page 56 accounting policy and misstatement, or to be subject to a significant level independently received third party confirmations pages 62 and 65 to 71 financial of judgement because they comprise liquid, listed from investment custodians.
However, due to their materiality in the context of the financial statements as a whole, they Our results are considered to be the area which had the greatest We found the resulting carrying amount effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of of listed equity investments to be acceptable resources in planning and completing our audit.
80 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope Total assets Materiality 1,033m 2017: 980.9m 10.3m 2017: 9.8m of our audit Materiality for the financial statements as a whole was set at 10.3m 10.3m 2017: 9.8m, determined with reference to a benchmark of total assets, Whole financial of which it represents 1% 2017: 1%.
statements materiality We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 516k 2017: 490K, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Our audit of the Company was undertaken to the materiality level specified above and was performed at the administrators head office in Exeter.
0.5m Total Assets Misstatements reported Materiality to the Audit Committee 2017: 0.5m 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Directors Remuneration Report We are required to report to you if: In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements that may cast significant doubt over the Companys use of that basis audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the Directors confirmation within the Viability Statement on pages 48 if the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 48 and 49 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
risks facing the Company, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: We have nothing to report in these respects.
the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information the Directors explanation in the Viability Statement of how they have in the Annual Report assessed the prospects of the Company, over what period they have The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, assumptions.
consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability Statement.
information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial We have nothing to report in this respect.
statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Corporate governance disclosures We are required to report to you if: Strategic Report and Report of the Directors we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge Based solely on our work on the other information: we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report statement that they consider that the annual report and financial and the Report of the Directors: statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the is consistent with the financial statements: and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy: or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit Companies Act 2006.
Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITISH EMPIRE TRUST PLC We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement Irregularities ability to detect does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our our review.
sector experience, and through discussion with the Directors as required by auditing standards.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are legislation as well as the Companys qualification as an Investment Trust required to report by exception under UK tax legislation, any breach of which could lead to the Company Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, losing various deductions and exemptions from UK corporation tax.
We in our opinion: considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout and returns: or the audit.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of made: or non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations as these may involve we have not received all the information and explanations we require collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override for our audit.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities 7.
Respective responsibilities This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Directors responsibilities accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 49, the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this to fraud or error: assessing the Companys ability to continue as a going report, or for the opinions we have formed.
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend Philip Merchant Senior Statutory Auditor to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor alternative but to do so.
Chartered Accountants 319 St Vincent Street Auditors responsibilities Glasgow Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the G2 5AS financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 9 November 2018 whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
82 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018
