Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Opinion enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial In our opinion: statements as a whole.
The Group financial statements are prepared on a consolidated basis, and the audit team carries out The British Land Company PLCs Group financial statements and an audit over the consolidated Group balances in support of the Company financial statements the financial statements give a Group audit opinion.
The following joint ventures are also audited true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys to Group materiality: Broadgate and Meadowhall.
affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Materiality the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Overall Group materiality: 131.8 million 2017: 135.0 million, accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: based on 1% of total assets.
the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in Specific Group materiality, applied to underlying profit: 19.6 million accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 2017: 19.4m which represents 5% of underlying pre-tax profit Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS Overall company materiality: 287.0 million 2017: 283.0 million, 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and based on 1% of total assets.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Key audit matters the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Valuation of investment and development properties.
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Accounting for transactions.
Report and Accounts 2018 the Annual Report, which comprise: Taxation.
the Consolidated Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2018: The scope of our audit the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and 31 March 2018: assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made year ended 31 March 2018: subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and 31 March 2018: considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity for the year We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework ended 31 March 2018: applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2018: considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year ended applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit 31 March 2018: and procedures to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not the notes to the financial statements, which include a description detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the of the significant accounting policies.
risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and Basis for opinion regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities 2006 and the UK tax legislation as applicable to a REIT.
under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, and and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
enquiries of management and review of minutes of those charged with governance.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided management override of internal controls, including testing journals to the Group or the Company.
and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Other than those disclosed in note 5 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in Key audit matters the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of Our audit approach the financial statements of the current period and include the most Overview significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not Our 2018 audit was planned and executed having regard to the fact due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had that the Groups operations were largely unchanged in nature the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of from the previous year.
Additionally, there have been no significant resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement changes to the valuation methodology and accounting standards team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of relevant to the Group.
In light of this, our approach to the audit in our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit terms of scoping and key audit matters was largely unchanged.
of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
98 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of investment and development properties Group We read the valuation reports for all the properties and confirmed Refer to pages 69 to 73 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 109 to that the valuation approach for each was in accordance with RICS 111 Accounting policies and pages 119 to 123 Notes to the Accounts.
standards and suitable for use in determining the carrying value for the purpose of the financial statements.
The Groups investment property portfolio is split between office in Central London, retail across the UK, the assets at the Canada Water We assessed the valuers qualifications and expertise and read their site in East London and other properties in Central London.
The terms of engagement with the Group to determine whether there valuation in the Consolidated Balance Sheet is 9,997 million.
were any matters that might have affected their objectivity or may have imposed scope limitations upon their work.
We also considered The valuation of the Groups investment property portfolio is fee arrangements between the valuers and the Group and other inherently subjective due to, among other factors, the individual engagements which might exist between the Group and the valuers.
nature of each property, its location and the expected future rentals We found no evidence to suggest that the objectivity of the valuers for that particular property.
For developments, factors include in their performance of the valuations was compromised.
projected costs to complete and timing of practical completion.
We obtained details of every property held by the Group and set an The valuations were carried out by third party valuers, CB Richard expected range for yield and capital value movement, determined by Ellis, Jones Lang LaSalle, Cushman and Wakefield and Knight Frank reference to published benchmarks and using our experience and the valuers.
The valuers were engaged by the Directors, and knowledge of the market.
We compared the investment yields used by performed their work in accordance with the Royal Institute of the valuers with the range of expected yields and the year on year Chartered Surveyors RICS Valuation Professional Standards.
capital movement to our expected range.
We also considered the The valuers used by the Group have considerable experience of the reasonableness of other assumptions that are not so readily comparable markets in which the Group operates.
with published benchmarks, such as Estimated Rental Value.
In determining a propertys valuation the valuers take into account We attended meetings with management and the valuers, at which property-specific information such as the current tenancy the valuations and the key assumptions therein were discussed.
They apply assumptions for yields Our work covered the valuation of every property in the Group, but and estimated market rent, which are influenced by prevailing the discussions with management and the valuers focused on the market yields and comparable market transactions, to arrive at largest properties in the portfolio, properties under development or the final valuation.
For developments, the residual appraisal method where the valuation basis has changed in the year, the Canada Water is used, by estimating the fair value of the completed project using site and those where the yields used and or year on year capital a capitalisation method less estimated costs to completion and a value movement suggested a possible outlier versus externally risk premium.
published market data for the relevant sector.
The significance of the estimates and judgements involved, coupled Where assumptions were outside the expected range or otherwise with the fact that only a small percentage difference in individual appeared unusual, and or valuations showed unexpected property valuations, when aggregated, could result in a material movements, we undertook further investigations and, when misstatement, warrants specific audit focus in this area.
necessary, held further discussions with the valuers and obtained evidence to support explanations received.
The valuation There were also certain specific factors affecting the valuations in commentaries provided by the valuers and supporting evidence, the year: Properties under development, completed developments enabled us to consider the property specific factors that may have that are now valued as standing investment properties and standing had an impact on value, including recent comparable transactions investment properties that have been reclassified to development where appropriate.
properties continue to be a key audit matter.
We saw evidence that alternative assumptions had been considered and evaluated by management and the valuers, before determining the final valuation.
We concluded that the assumptions used in the valuations were supportable in light of available and comparable market evidence.
We performed testing on the standing data in the Groups information systems concerning the valuation process.
We carried out procedures, on a sample basis, to satisfy ourselves of the accuracy of the property information supplied to the valuers by management.
For developments, capitalised expenditure was tested on a sample basis to invoices, and budgeted costs to complete compared with supporting evidence for example construction contracts.
It was evident from our interaction with management and the valuers, and from our review of the valuation reports, that close attention had been paid to each propertys individual characteristics at a granular, tenant by tenant level, as well as considering the overall quality, geographic location and desirability of the asset as a whole.
No issues were identified in our testing.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC CONTINUED Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition Group We carried out tests of controls over the cash and accounts receivable Refer to pages 69 to 73 Report of the Audit Committee, page 109 processes and the related IT systems to obtain evidence that postings to 111 Accounting policies and page 113 Notes to the Accounts.
to these accounts were reliable.
For rental income balances, we then used data-enabled audit techniques to identify all standard revenue Revenue for the Group consists primarily of rental income.
Rental journals posted using these systems and processes.
income is based on tenancy agreements where there is a standard process in place for recording revenue, which is system generated.
The remaining journals related to non-standard transactions.
There are certain transactions within revenue that warrant additional These included reclassifications within revenue, accrued income, audit focus because of an increased inherent risk of error due to their and bad debt provisions.
For each category of non-standard non-standard nature.
revenue summarised above, we understood the nature and assessed the reasonableness of journals being generated, and These include spreading of tenant incentives and guaranteed rent performed substantive testing over a sample of these items.
increases these balances require adjustments made to rental There were no exceptions arising from our testing over income to ensure revenue is recorded on a straight line basis over non-standard revenue transactions.
For balances not included within rental income, such as service charge income, we performed substantive testing on a sample basis.
Accounting for transactions Group and Company For each transaction, we understood the nature of the transaction Refer to pages 69 to 73 Report of the Audit Committee, pages 109 and assessed the accounting treatment in relation to the Groups to 111 Accounting policies and pages 112 to 147 Notes.
accounting policies and relevant IFRSs.
There have been a number of transactions during the year.
For acquisitions and disposals, we obtained and read the key These warranted additional audit focus due to the magnitude of supporting documentation such as Sale and Purchase Agreements the transactions and the potential for complex contractual terms and completion statements.
Consideration received or paid was that introduce judgement into how they were accounted for.
Key agreed to bank statements.
transactions subject to additional audit focus for the Group were: For the sites acquired at Woolwich which have been accounted for Investment property acquisitions of 250 million, including the as an asset acquisition, we assessed the accounting treatment in acquisition of The Woolwich Estate Woolwich for 103 million relation to IFRS 3 Business combinations and IAS 40, acquisition of Investment property disposals of 185 million investment property.
We read the sale and purchase agreements Share buyback of 300 million and agreed that the purchase met the criteria to be recognised as Issue of 2.375% 300m unsecured bond an asset acquisition.
We audited the acquisition accounting and the Partial close out of interest rate derivative 103 IRD 103 for subsequent re-measurement to fair value at the balance sheet date.
14.1 million cash settlement We agreed the proceeds paid to bank statements and checked the An amount of 15m the Groups share received from RBS in transfer of legal title of the assets passed to British Land.
No issues relation to the surrender of their lease at 135 Bishopsgate, were found as a result of these procedures.
within the Broadgate joint venture For the share buyback, we read the broker contracts and audited Key transactions subject to additional audit focus for the the accounting for the buyback in accordance with IAS 32.
For shares Company were: repurchased by the Group, we tested the subsequent cancellation of the shares acquired and checked the associated costs of the Share buyback of 300 million transaction were correctly recognised within reserves retained earnings.
From our audit procedures performed, no exceptions were noted in the accounting for the share buyback programme.
A 2.375% Sterling Unsecured Bond, maturing September 2029, was issued in September 2017.
The new bond is held at amortised cost, with a book value of 297.6 million.
We examined the bond issue documents and the accounting treatment applied in line with IAS 39 and are satisfied that the treatment applied is appropriate.
The group partially closed a long standing cash flow hedge derivative during the year, breaking the hedge relationship.
This resulted in the recycling of 115.3m from the hedging and translation reserve and 14.1m of closeout costs being recognised in the income statement.
We tested the accounting treatment applied in line with IAS 39 and have no issues to report.
For the 15m received from RBS, we read the surrender agreements that detail the payment.
We agreed receipt of the amount to bank statements.
We concur with the treatment adopted.
100 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Taxation We re-performed the Groups annual REIT compliance tests, as well Refer to pages 69 to 73 Report of the Audit Committee, page 111 as those tests for the Broadgate REIT.
Based on our work performed, Accounting policies and pages 115 and 130 Notes to the Accounts.
we agreed with managements assessment that all REIT compliance tests had been met to ensure that the Group and Broadgate maintain The Groups status as a REIT underpins its business model and their REIT status.
For this reason, it warrants special audit focus.
The obligations of the REIT regime include requirements to comply We evaluated the tax provisions and movements made within the with balance of business, dividend and income cover tests.
We obtained sufficient supporting evidence for provisions Broadgate joint venture is also structured as a REIT and as such, released during the year.
We discussed provisions raised and REIT compliance is also of relevance for this joint venture in addition increased during the year with management and obtained evidence to the overall Group.
to support the levels of provisions recorded.
We read relevant correspondence between the Group and Her Majestys Revenue and Tax provisions are in place to account for the risk of challenge of Customs to obtain evidence over the completeness of provisions.
certain of the Groups tax provisions.
Given the subjective nature of Based on our work performed, we are satisfied that the assumptions these provisions, additional audit focus was placed on tax provisions.
and judgements used by the Group are reasonable.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
In establishing the overall approach to our audit, we assessed the risk of material misstatement, taking into account the nature, likelihood and potential magnitude of any misstatement.
Following this assessment, we applied professional judgment to determine the extent of testing required over each balance in the financial statements.
The Group and Company financial statements are produced using a single consolidation system that has a direct interface with the general ledger.
The Group audit team performed all audit procedures over the consolidation for the purposes of the Group audit, which included testing over the general ledger system and its interface with the consolidation system.
The Group also has investments in two joint ventures Broadgate and Meadowhall, which were subject to audits of their complete financial information by the Group audit team.
This work gave us sufficient appropriate audit evidence for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 131.8 million 2017: 135.0 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
1% of total assets Rationale for benchmark A key determinant of the Groups value is direct The parent companys main activity is the holding applied property investments.
Due to this, the key area of investments in subsidiaries.
Given this, and of focus in the audit is the valuation of consistent with the prior year, we set an overall investment properties.
On this basis, and parent company materiality level based on total consistent with the prior year, we set an overall assets.
For purposes of the Group audit, we capped Group materiality level based on total assets.
the overall materiality for the company to be 90% of the Group overall materiality.
In addition, for the Group we set a specific materiality level of 19.6m 2017: 19.4m for items within underlying pre-tax profit.
This equates to 5% of profit before tax adjusted for capital and other items.
In arriving at this judgement we had regard to the fact that the underlying pre-tax profit is a secondary financial indicator of the Group Refer to Note 2 of the financial statements page 112 where the term is defined in full.
For the Group and Company, we agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit of underlying pre-tax items above 1m 2017: 1m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them, any other misstatements identified during our audit above 6.5m 2017: 6.7m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC CONTINUED Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As not draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement financial statements about whether the directors considered it is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in continue as a going concern.
preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to We have nothing to report.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information Corporate Governance Statement The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
on page 67 in the Governance Review section about internal Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other controls and risk management systems in relation to financial information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, reporting processes and about share capital structures in except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and form of assurance thereon.
Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our applicable legal requirements.
CA06 responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the material misstatement of the financial statements or a material audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have on pages 63 and 64 in the Governance Review section with respect performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this to the companys corporate governance code and practices and other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Additional Disclosures and Corporate Governance Statement, We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Companies Act 2006 have been included.
CA06 Based on the responsibilities described above and our work The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct of the Group Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
The directors confirmation on page 50 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Strategic Report and Directors Report and Additional Disclosures facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks Report and Additional Disclosures for the year ended 31 March 2018 and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in The directors explanation on page 51 of the Annual Report as to accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period Report and Directors Report and Additional Disclosures.
CA06 of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
102 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the financial statements as a whole are free from material the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance and considering the directors process supporting their statements: is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or considering whether the statements are consistent with the error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Other Code Provisions A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: report when: w w w. frc.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
The statement given by the directors, on page 67, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced Use of this report and understandable, and provides the information necessary for This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 performance, business model and strategy is materially of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility obtained in the course of performing our audit.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report The section of the Annual Report on page 69 describing the work is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters agreed by our prior consent in writing.
communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the companys compliance Other required reporting with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a Companies Act 2006 exception reporting relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, for review by the auditors.
in our opinion: Directors Remuneration we have not received all the information and explanations we In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be require for our audit: or audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, Companies Act 2006.
CA06 or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements are not made: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement the company financial statements and the part of the Directors set out on page 95, the directors are responsible for the preparation Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable accounting records and returns.
framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether Appointment due to fraud or error.
Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the members on 18 July 2014 to audit the financial In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 and subsequent for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going 4 years, covering the years ended 31 March 2015 to 31 March 2018. concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to John Waters Senior Statutory Auditor cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 16 May 2018 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103
