THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Independent auditors report to the members of Independent auditors report to the members of British Telecommunications plc British Telecommunications plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Report on the audit of the financial statements To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonOpinion audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not In our opinion: provided to the group or the parent company.
British Telecommunications plcs group financial statements and parent company financial statements the financial statements Other than those disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements, give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the parent parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the groups company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018. profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in Our audit approach accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Overview the parent company financial statements have been properly Materiality Overall group materiality: 130m prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally 2016 17: 130m, based on 5% of profit Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting before tax.
Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Overall parent company materiality: 110m Framework, and applicable law : and 2016 17: 110m, based on 5% of profit the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with before tax.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards Audit scope The locations included and work performed the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
were: We have audited the financial statements, included within the Full scope audits of British Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 the Annual Report, which Telecommunications plc and EE in the UK, comprise: the group and British Telecommunications plc parent and the principal reporting unit in Italy.
company balance sheets as at 31 March 2018: the group income Audit of certain financial statement line statement, the group statement of comprehensive income, the items in Germany, Ireland, Spain, the US group cash flow statement, and the group and parent company and an additional reporting unit in the UK.
statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the Specified procedures on certain financial notes to the financial statements, which include a description of statement line items in Switzerland.
Key audit matters Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in Global Services Group only : Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the BT Group plc Major contracts in Global Services, Business Audit & Risk Committee.
and Public Sector and EE Group and parent company : Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Accuracy of revenue due to complex billing As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, in systems Group and parent company : addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has Valuation of pension scheme obligations and also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting unquoted investments in the BT Pension Standards Board IASB.
Scheme Group and parent company : Adequacy of regulatory and other provisions In our opinion, the group financial statements have been properly Group and parent company : prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Recognition and measurement of potential tax exposures and deferred tax assets Basis for opinion Group and parent company : We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards BT Italy changes to the control on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our environment and review of estimates made responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors in 2016 17 Group only : and responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of Cost capitalisation and asset lives for property, our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is plant and equipment and software intangible sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
assets Group and parent company.
Independence The scope of our audit We remained independent of the group in accordance with the As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 95 96 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management framework applicable to the group and the industry in which it override of internal controls, including testing journals and operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which were evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
designed audit procedures at group and significant component Key audit matters level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve the financial statements of the current period and include the deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the group and parent company financial statements, including, but allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the UK Listing Rules and engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on certain requirements from the Communications Act 2003.
Our the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the tests included, but were not limited to, agreement of the financial context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate review of correspondence with regulators, review of opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, identified by our audit.
review of significant component auditors working papers and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 97 98 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of British Telecommunications plc continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in Global Services We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness relevant to the group financial statements of managements controls in assessing the carrying value of As at 31 March 2018, goodwill relating to the Global Services CGU goodwill.
We determined that we could rely on these controls for amounted to 498m out of a total goodwill balance of 7,953m.
the purposes of our audit.
Management prepared an impairment assessment for the Global We then focused on the key assumptions included in the Services cash generating unit CGU, as required under impairment assessment, being the cash flows for each year of accounting standards, which was based on a value in use managements detailed forecast, the long-term growth rate and calculation.
Similar assessments were performed by the directors the discount rate.
for the other goodwill balances.
Management concluded that there To determine the appropriateness of the future operating cash was no impairment of goodwill in any CGU, including Global flows, we: Services.
Agreed the cash flow forecasts used in the impairment model We focused on the impairment assessment for Global Services as to Board approved forecasts: the headroom of value in use over carrying value was limited and, Considered managements expectations in respect of as disclosed by management in note 11 to the financial developments in the business and corroborated certain statements, the calculation of recoverable amount is sensitive to information with third party sources.
We considered planned changes in assumptions in particular the long term growth rate, operational improvements and the reasonableness of these in the discount rate and the assumptions underlying future operating generating future cash flows and whether these were cash flows.
appropriately reflected in the cash flow forecasts: and Compared actual historical cash flow results for the Global Services CGU with previous forecasts to assess forecasting accuracy.
We used internal specialists to independently corroborate the long term growth rate and the discount rate used by management by reference to market data.
We recalculated the sensitivity analysis performed by management and performed our own sensitivity analyses, focusing on what we considered to be reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions.
We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosures in note 11.
Overall, we considered the assumptions made to be within a supportable range and the disclosures appropriate.
Major contracts in Global Services, Business and Public Sector and EE We stratified the population and tested a sample of major relevant to the group and aside from major contracts in EE parent contracts, focusing our work on those which we regarded as company financial statements higher risk because of the nature of the contract, its stage of We focused on these contracts as they involve significant estimates delivery or the quantum of the related assets on the balance in respect of: sheet, and then by those which were material by size.
In the completeness and valuation of provisions against contracts performing this testing, we assessed the appropriateness of the projected to be loss making: and assumptions and estimates underpinning the accounting for the recoverability of contract-specific assets, including deferred these major contracts as follows: costs and property, plant and equipment.
We evaluated the design and tested the operating Consideration of the completeness and valuation of provisions effectiveness of controls that operate across the contract life against contracts and the recoverability of contract-specific assets cycle for major contracts.
is dependent on the assumptions underpinning the lifetime We obtained and read the relevant sections of certain contracts profitability forecasts for the contracts.
agreed between the group and the customer, to identify the contracted revenues, key provisions in the event of contract termination such as penalties or the ability for the group to recover costs and other significant obligations.
We ensured the future forecasts reflected the contract terms, testing any significant changes such as new services to changes notices or other supporting documentation.
We tested a sample of recorded revenue and cost transactions by tracing them to supporting evidence, which for revenue included evidence of delivery and or customer acceptance.
98 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 97 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We compared the historical forecast results of certain contracts with the actual results to assess the performance of the contract and the historical accuracy of forecasting.
We performed sensitivity analysis to reflect reasonable downside risks that may impact the contract.
We also assessed the contract terms to identify any financial compensation the group is entitled to if the contract is terminated early by the customer for convenience to support our assessment of the recoverability of any associated contract assets.
We considered the future forecast profitability, including sensitivity analysis, and the contractual terms to assess the recoverability of the contract-specific assets and to determine if any contracts required loss provisions.
Based on our work we considered managements estimates in respect of contract loss provisions and the recoverability of contract specific assets to be supportable and recorded in line with the groups accounting policies as set out in note 3.
Accuracy of revenue due to complex billing systems We evaluated the relevant IT systems and the design of controls, relevant to the group and parent company financial statements and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the: The accuracy of revenue amounts recorded is an inherent risk.
This Capture and recording of revenue transactions: is because the groups billing systems are complex and process Authorisation of rate changes and the input of this large volumes of data with a combination of different products information into the billing systems: and sold and price changes in the year, through a number of different Calculation of amounts billed to customers.
We determined that we could rely on these controls for the purposes of our audit.
We also tested a sample of customer bills and checked these to supporting evidence e. g. customer orders, contracts or subsequent communications from the group to customers confirming changes to prices, and call detail records where applicable and cash received.
Our testing included agreeing amounts to customer bills for consumers, corporate customers and wholesale customers.
Based on our work, we noted no material issues in the accuracy of revenue recorded in the year.
Valuation of pension scheme obligations and unquoted We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness investments in the BT Pension Scheme of controls in respect of the determination of the BTPS net relevant to the group and parent company financial statements deficit.
We determined that we could rely on these controls for We focused on the BT Pension Scheme BTPS because the the purposes of our audit.
valuation of the BTPS obligations 55.8bn at 31 March 2018 We used our actuarial experts to assess the appropriateness of and unquoted assets which comprised unquoted equity the actuarial assumptions used in valuing the BTPS obligations.
investments, property assets and other assets totalling 20.2bn at This included comparing the assumptions used with our 31 March 2018 require the use of estimates and significant internally developed benchmarks.
We also focused on the update judgement, and a small change in the key assumptions can have a to the discount rate model made at 31 March 2018 to assess its material impact on the financial statements.
compliance with IAS 19 and considered the adequacy of the disclosure of the impact.
All the assumptions used by management fell within acceptable ranges.
We tested the valuation of the unquoted assets on a sample basis.
Specifically: For property assets, we: Obtained and read valuation reports prepared by third party expert valuers for management.
We assessed the methods and assumptions used by the valuers and the competence and objectivity of those third party experts: and British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 99 98 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of British Telecommunications plc continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Tested the carrying amount of other property assets by validating these to audited financial statements.
For direct investments held by the BTPS, the valuations of the investments are derived from discounted cash flow models.
These models use assumptions including discount rates and cash flow forecasts.
We assessed the assumptions used in a sample of the valuations by checking that the assumptions used were consistent with our internally developed range of discount rates with the support of internal specialists, by comparing the cash flows with historical results and by considering the impact of other external information.
We tested the accuracy of the calculations and assessed whether the assumptions used were in line with other market participants and reflected the particular status of the investment shareholding: and For other unquoted investments, in addition to testing internal controls related to their valuation, we obtained confirmations of the valuation from the custodians and the investment managers, and tested the carrying amount by validating these to audited financial statements.
Based on the audit work we performed as described above, we considered the estimates and judgements used by management for the obligations and the unquoted investments to be within an acceptable range.
We also satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of the disclosures in note 19.
Adequacy of regulatory and other provisions We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of relevant to the group and parent company financial statements controls in respect of the determination of the provisions.
We The group and parent company have regulatory provisions of determined that we could rely on these controls for the purposes 320m relating to regulatory risks.
There has been an increased of our audit.
frequency, and magnitude, of matters considered by Ofcom and For regulatory provisions, we read correspondence and the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT in the UK.
pronouncements from the regulator Ofcom and the CAT and The group and parent company have litigation provisions of 64m correspondence from other communication providers CPs.
The group and parent company are We evaluated the regulatory risk exposures identified by involved in various legal proceedings, including actual or management, and where relevant the provisions recorded, against threatened litigation and regulatory investigations.
We also considered managements assessment of The magnitude of litigation and regulatory exposures means that a the likelihood of regulatory risks crystallising, and therefore the change in managements judgement as to the likely outcome could completeness of the provisions recorded, by comparing its have a material impact on the financial statements.
assessment against historical disputes, open claims from CPs, current pronouncements issued by Ofcom and the CAT, and by considering the nature of the identified regulatory risk exposure.
For litigation provisions, we read the summary of major litigation matters provided by management and held discussions with the groups general counsel and head of litigation.
For a sample of matters, we held discussions with the groups external legal advisors with respect to the matters included in the summary.
Where appropriate we examined correspondence between the groups external legal advisors and the relevant court or other regulatory body.
We also tested a sample of legal expenses to identify any other potential litigation matters.
For regulatory provisions, we tested the calculation of a sample of the provisions, assessed the key assumptions against third party data where available, and assessed the estimates against historical trends, including an overall assessment of the provision against the aggregate risk exposures.
100 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 99 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter We considered managements estimates of the level of provisioning to be appropriately supported based on the work we have performed.
We also satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of the disclosures in note 18.
Recognition and measurement of potential tax exposures We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness relevant to the group and parent company financial statements of controls in place for the determination and recognition of and deferred tax assets relevant to the group financial statements deferred tax balances and uncertain tax positions balances.
We The group operates in a complex multinational tax environment determined that we could rely on these controls for the purposes and is subject to a range of tax risks.
There is inherent judgement of our audit.
involved in determining provisions for uncertain tax positions We tested the underlying data in support of the key deferred tax 240m as at 31 March 2018. and uncertain tax provision calculations.
The parent company is subject to a range of tax risks and there is In conjunction with our tax specialists, we evaluated inherent judgement involved in determining provisions for managements conclusions in relation to uncertain tax positions uncertain tax positions 215m as at 31 March 2018. and the related level of tax provisions.
We considered the status The group has material unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of recent and current tax audits and enquiries as well as the of brought forward trading losses and other temporary differences, results of previous claims, and changes to the tax environments as set out in note 9.
The recognition of deferred tax assets involves in the markets in which the group operates.
We utilised our estimation regarding the likelihood of the realisation of these specialist tax knowledge and experience of similar situations assets, in particular whether there will be taxable profits in future elsewhere to examine tax planning arrangements and the global periods that support recognition of these assets.
transfer pricing model and assess managements judgements.
We found that the level of provisioning overall was supportable.
In assessing managements conclusions with respect to the recognition of deferred tax assets, we evaluated the amount of tax losses recognised in light of the future projected profitability of the relevant subsidiary companies, by assessing the forecasts against past results and expectations of future trading performance.
We determined that the tax balances were supportable.
We also satisfied ourselves as to the appropriateness of the disclosure in note 9 of the group financial statements and note 13 of the parent company financial statements.
BT Italy changes to the control environment and review of We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness estimates made in 2016 17 of the enhanced controls and the new controls related to the relevant to the group financial statements Italian business.
In 2016 17, the group disclosed the results of its investigations Our Italian component team performed a full scope audit for the into irregular accounting practices in Italy and reported control purposes of the group audit for the year ended 31 March 2018 deficiencies related to the Italian business as at 31 March 2017. and reported to us thereon.
With the assistance of the Italian In 2017 18, the group made a number of changes to the control component team we also assessed whether there was any environment as it relates to its Italian business, including evidence of events or circumstances arising in the year ended enhancing the controls that had not operated effectively in the 31 March 2018 that provided new information which prior year and implementing new controls.
necessitated further adjustments to be made to the financial Following the prior year investigations, and as previously reported, information of the Italian business, either in the current year or the group recorded an aggregate adjustment of 513m in respect in respect of prior years.
of the Italian business in 2016 17, of which 245m was We satisfied ourselves that the critical estimates recorded in recognised as a specific item charge in the 2016 17 income respect of the Italian business in the group balance sheet at statement and 268m related to years prior to 2016 17.
31 March 2018, including any reassessments of the amounts The nature of the irregular accounting practices and control previously recognised, were appropriately supported.
weaknesses required management to make a number of estimates and judgements in determining the adjustments recorded in 2016 17.
During 2017 18 management has undertaken additional work to reassess the estimates previously made and determined no further material adjustments were necessary.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 101 100 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of British Telecommunications plc continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Cost capitalisation and asset lives for property, plant and We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness equipment and software intangible assets of controls around the property, plant and equipment cycle and relevant to the group and parent company financial statements software intangible assets cycle, including the controls over Capitalisation of costs involves management judgement and the whether engineering labour activity is capital or operating in useful lives assigned to assets are a key management estimate.
We determined that we could rely on these controls for These manifest themselves in the following two audit risks: the purposes of our audit.
that amounts being capitalised do not meet capitalisation We tested costs capitalised in the year and considered the ageing criteria, including the recognition and deferral of related grants: of assets in the course of construction.
We assessed the nature of and costs incurred in capital projects through testing of amounts that the useful economic lives assigned to assets are recorded and considering whether the expenditure met the inappropriate.
criteria for capitalisation under accounting standards.
We also focused on the recognition of capital grants associated We tested the controls over the annual review of asset lives.
In with the Broadband Delivery UK BDUK and Superfast Extension addition, we considered whether managements views on asset SEP programmes, as the grants may be subject to re-investment lives are supportable by considering our knowledge of the or repayment depending on the level of take-up requiring business and of the wider telecoms industry.
We also tested calculation of grant income to be deferred.
whether the prior year asset life review has been appropriately applied and assessed the judgements made by management in the current year review.
We found that the asset lives were consistent with those commonly used in the industry and appropriately reflected technological developments.
We tested the controls in place over the recording and reconciliation of grant income deferral.
We assessed the key assumption of the forecast level of end user take-up applied by management to calculate the deferral.
In addition, we tested other key inputs to supporting evidence as well as the accuracy of the calculation.
We determined that managements conclusions were supportable.
In five reporting units Germany, Ireland, Spain, the US and an How we tailored the audit scope additional UK reporting unit audits of the revenue financial We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed statement line item and related balance sheet accounts were enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial performed.
The work performed on these five reporting units statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the accounted for 7% of the groups revenue.
For the additional UK group and the parent company, the accounting processes and reporting unit, audit procedures on certain operating costs and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
related balance sheet accounts were also performed.
In addition, The groups accounting process is structured around a finance specified procedures were performed on revenue and certain function in each of the reporting units who are supported by one balance sheet accounts in Switzerland.
of the groups shared service centres.
The reporting units are This, together with additional procedures performed on responsible for their own accounting records and controls and centralised functions and at the group level on the consolidation report to the head office finance team in London through an and other areas of significant judgement including tax and integrated consolidation system.
goodwill, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we financial statements as a whole.
determined the type of work that needed to be performed at The group engagement team performed the audit of British reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or Telecommunications plc.
The group engagement team also component auditors from other PwC network firms operating performed the work on the US reporting unit and the other UK under our instruction including PwC UK for EE.
Where the work reporting unit.
was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our For EE, the group engagement team met regularly with the opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
component audit team, who are UK based, and attended meetings with management, including the year end clearance meeting.
For three reporting units the main BT UK trading company British Telecommunications plc, EE and the principal reporting unit in Italy an audit of the complete financial information was performed.
These accounted for over 80% of the groups revenue and the groups profit before tax.
102 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 101 The STraTegic reporT governance Financial STaTemenTS addiTional inFormaTion Senior members of the group engagement team also visited Italy, Conclusions relating to going concern Germany, Ireland and Spain and communicated with our We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in component audit teams on a regular basis.
We also reviewed relation to which ISAs UK require us to report to you when: certain component auditor working papers and participated in the the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the audit clearance meetings for Italy, Germany, Ireland and Spain preparation of the financial statements is not appropriate: or either in person or by conference call.
In addition, the group engagement team visited the shared service centres relevant to the directors have not disclosed in the financial statements any those reporting units in scope for the group audit.
identified material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt about the groups and parent companys ability to Materiality continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting for a The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of period of at least twelve months from the date when the materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
financial statements are authorised for issue.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to However, because not all future events or conditions can be determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial parent companys ability to continue as a going concern.
statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the Reporting on other information financial statements as a whole.
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the for the financial statements as a whole as follows: other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does Group financial Parent company financial not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not statements statements express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise Overall 130m 2016 17: 110m explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our How we 5% of profit 5% of profit before tax.
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Rationale for The Group is profit We consider profit before consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent benchmark orientated and we tax to be an appropriate with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the applied consider profit benchmark as it represents audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we before tax to be an a key statutory measure identify an apparent material inconsistency or material appropriate used by the shareholders misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude benchmark as it to assess the financial whether there is a material misstatement of the financial represents a key performance of the parent statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
As the parent If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there used by the company is a component shareholders to materiality has been is a material misstatement of this other information, we are assess the financial capped at an amount required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on performance of the appropriate for the group these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Report of the Directors and For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated Corporate Governance Statement, we also considered whether the a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
As disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been noted above, British Telecommunications plc is a component of included.
the group and materiality was set at 110m.
For EE, materiality allocated to this unit was 100m.
For all other reporting units the Based on the responsibilities described above and our work materiality allocated was between 10m and 20m.
undertaken in the course of the audit, ISAs UK require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below.
We agreed with the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10m for both the group and parent company audits 2016 17: 10m as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 103 102 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of British Telecommunications plc continued Report on the audit of the financial statements continued Strategic Report and Report of the Directors A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the www.
This description forms audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Report of part of our auditors report.
the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in Use of this report accordance with applicable legal requirements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no parent company and their environment obtained in the course of other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other Strategic Report and Report of the Directors.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of directors Other required reporting responsibilities set out on page 89, the directors are responsible Companies Act 2006 exception reporting for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a if, in our opinion: true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such we have not received all the information and explanations we internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the require for our audit: or preparation of financial statements that are free from material adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or In preparing the financial statements, the directors are certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys are not made: or ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, the parent company financial statements are not in agreement matters related to going concern and using the going concern with the accounting records and returns.
basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
no realistic alternative but to do so.
Appointment Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial We were appointed by the members in 1984 to audit the statements financial statements for the year ended 31 March 1985 and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted the financial statements as a whole are free from material engagement is 34 years, covering the years ended 31 March misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an 1985 to 31 March 2018. auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 May 2018 104 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2018 103
