FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITVIC PLC Opinion Basis for opinion In our opinion: We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities Britvic plcs group financial statements and parent company under those standards are further described in the Auditors financial statements the financial statements give a true and responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys of our report below.
We are independent of the group and parent affairs as at 30 September 2018 and of the groups profit for the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are period then ended: relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the group financial statements have been properly prepared in the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: entities, and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in the parent company financial statements have been properly accordance with these requirements.
prepared in accordance United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice including FRS 101: and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and, as regards the Conclusions relating to principal risks, going concern group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and viability statement We have audited the financial statements of Britvic plc We have nothing to report in respect of the following information which comprise: in the annual report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw Group Parent company attention to: Consolidated income statement Balance sheet as at for the 52 week period ended 30 September 2018 the disclosures in the annual report set out on pages 30 to 34 30 September 2018 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being Consolidated statement of Statement of changes in equity managed or mitigated: comprehensive income for the 52 week period ended the directors conrmation set out on page 30 in the annual report expense for the 52 week 30 September 2018 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal period ended 30 September 2018 risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its Consolidated balance sheet as Related notes 1 to 13 to the business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: at 30 September 2018 financial statements including the directors statement set out on page 85 in the financial a summary of significant statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt accounting policies the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their Consolidated statement of cash identication of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to ows for the 52 week period continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from ended 30 September 2018 the date of approval of the financial statements: Consolidated statement of whether the directors statement in relation to going concern changes in equity for the 52 week required under the Listing Rules in accordance with Listing Rule period ended 30 September 2018 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained Related notes 1 to 33 to the in the audit: or financial statements, including the directors explanation set out on page 35 in the annual report a summary of significant as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over accounting policies what period they have done so and why they consider that period The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period regards the parent company financial statements, UK GAAP of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, as applied in attention to any necessary qualications or assumptions.
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Overview of our audit approach Risk revenue recognition Key audit Fraud Risk Revenue Recognition through Description of risk matters inappropriate manual journal entries Given the market focus on the groups revenue performance Fraud Risk Management Override of Internal we consider there to be a risk in relation to the potential Controls over Customer Discounts overstatement of revenue.
Management reward and incentive Audit scope We performed full audit procedures over the schemes based on achieving profit targets may also place Group level functions in addition to the financial pressure on management to manipulate revenue recognition.
We perform There is a risk that management may override controls to specic audit procedures over intentionally misstate revenue transactions by recording fictitious 1 further component.
revenue transactions through inappropriate manual journal entries.
The components where we performed full or specic audit procedures accounted for 103% of Our response to this risk profit before tax stated before adjusting items, we understood the groups revenue recognition policies and 92% of Revenue and 92% of total assets.
how they are applied, including the relevant controls: Materiality Overall group materiality of 9.1m which we identied the controls over the revenue recognition represents approximately 5% of profit before tax processes at all full scope locations.
We tested the operating stated, consistent with last year, before certain effectiveness of the controls in the France and Brazil adjusting items adjusting items, as dened business units: on page 152. at all full and specic scope locations, we tested journal entries posted to revenue accounts, applying a number of Key audit matters parameters designed to identify and test entries that were not Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional in accordance with our expectations.
This included analysing judgment, were of most signicance in our audit of the financial and selecting journals for testing which appeared unusual in statements of the current period and include the most significant nature either due to size, preparer or being manually posted.
assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to We veried the journals to originating documentation to confirm fraud that we identied.
These matters included those which had that the entries were valid: the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of for the GB, Republic of Ireland and France full scope resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement components, which together form 82% of the groups team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of total revenue, we performed data analysis over the entire the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and revenue process from revenue recognition through to invoice we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Where the postings did not follow our expectation, The risks noted below are discussed in the Audit Committee Report we investigated outliers and tested these entries to ensure on page 66 and in the accounting policy notes on pages 99 to 106. their validity by agreeing back to source documentation: for the Brazil business units, we performed revenue transaction testing, which included ensuring that the transaction had been appropriately recorded in the income statement at the right time: and at all full and specic scope locations, we selected a sample of post year end credit notes and ensured that, where corroborating evidence demonstrated that the credit note related to the audit period, these credit notes were appropriately provided for in the financial statements.
Within International Standard on Auditing UK 240 there is a presumption that there are risks of fraud in revenue recognition.
We therefore evaluated the revenue transactions or assertions which give rise to such risk in the current period as noted above.
Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee Based on our procedures we have not identied evidence of inappropriate management override in respect of the amount of revenue recorded through inappropriate journal entries.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITVIC PLC CONTINUED In comparison to the prior year, we have made the Risk management override of internal controls following changes: over customer discounts Management override of other financial items In the prior Description of risk year our auditors report included a key audit matter in relation The risk of material misstatement due to management override to management override of other financial items.
In the current of controls is considered a risk in every audit.
Management has year, we have concluded that these do not represent a key audit the primary responsibility to prevent and detect fraud.
We are matter as there is not a higher likelihood of there being a material required by professional auditing standards to consider how this misstatement in this area.
This conclusion was reached based risk may manifest itself and design appropriate procedures.
upon the reduced magnitude of the other financial items in the context of our materiality.
Management could manipulate results through incomplete Revenue recognition In the prior year we included the recording of expenses and liabilities, including the accounting manipulation of the cut-off of revenue transactions in the Brazil for promotional discounts, long term discounts and account business unit.
In the current year, we have concluded that this development funds which are deducted from revenue.
We have does not form part of our key audit matter as there is not a higher associated this risk to the promotional discounts, long term likelihood of there being a material misstatement in this area, discounts and account development funds that remain open as at based upon the magnitude of transactions around the year end 30 September 2018 97.4m.
and the consistency of managements methodology.
Our response to this risk Management override of internal controls over customer we obtained an understanding of the groups processes for discounts in the current year we have further claried our risk the recognition and management of discounts provided to to focus upon those promotional discounts, long term discounts customers including obtaining an understanding of the design and account development funds that remain open at the year of the controls in place within the GB and Ireland divisions end, compared to those that have been agreed and settled where such discounts are most prevalent: with customers, as demonstrated by the hindsight analysis we we tested a sample of long term and promotional discount have performed.
expenses and account development fund expenses throughout the period and the period end accruals by agreeing balances An overview of the scope of our audit through to supporting documentation and ensured that the Tailoring the scope revenue recognition policies adopted complied with IFRS: Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our we performed analytical procedures including the correlation allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope of revenue to discounts to assess completeness of discounts: for each entity within the group.
Taken together, this enables us to we performed testing on a sample of post year end discounts, form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take both settled and recorded, as evidence of the appropriateness into account size, risk prole, the organisation of the group and of discount accruals recognised at the year end: effectiveness of group-wide controls, changes in the business we selected a sample of post year end credit notes and environment and other factors such as Internal audit results when ensured that, where audit evidence demonstrated that the assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
credit note related to the audit period, that these credit notes In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the group financial were appropriately provided for in the financial statements: statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage we performed hindsight analysis, to determine the historical of significant accounts in the financial statements, in addition to accuracy of managements estimation and any required auditing the Group level consolidation, we selected 8 components adjustments to accruals: for audit covering operations within the GB, Ireland, France and we held bi-annual meetings with the customer account Brazil business units within the group.
teams to update our knowledge of the status of customer negotiations and the process by which discounts have been Of the 8 components selected, we performed full audit procedures recorded: and over the financial information of 7 components full scope we performed targeted journal entry testing at both the components which were selected based on their size or risk general ledger and rebate transaction front-end system levels.
These components were the GB, France and Brazil Our testing was focused on manual journal entries posted, both operations and certain operations from the Ireland business.
For 1 to the period end accruals and to the rebate income statement further operation within the Ireland business specic scope accounts, with a particular focus on journal entries posted close component, we performed audit procedures on specic accounts to the period end.
within that component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the financial Key observations communicated to the Audit Committee statements either because of the size of these accounts or their Based on our procedures, we have identied no instances of risk prole.
inappropriate management override of the customer discounts either expensed or accrued in the financial statements.
The reporting components where we performed full or specic scope audit procedures accounted for 103% 2017: 110% of the groups profit before tax stated before adjusting items, 92% 2017: 92% of the groups revenue and 92% 2017: 87% of the groups total assets.
A number of loss making components were not assigned a full or specic scope which results in our coverage of profit before tax stated before adjusting items exceeding 100%.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION the full scope components contributed 100% 2017: 108% of or by component auditors from other EY global network rms the groups profit before tax stated before adjusting items, 90% operating under our instruction.
2017: 91% of the groups Revenue and 91% 2017: 86% of the The senior statutory auditor leads the audit of all full and specic Groups Total assets: components within the GB and Ireland businesses, in addition the specic scope component contributed 3% 2017: 2% of to the audit of the group functions.
These full and specic scope the groups profit before tax stated before adjusting items, 2% components represent 73% of group revenue and 85% of the 2017: 1% of the groups Revenue and 1% 2017: 1% of the groups profit before tax stated before adjusting items.
The audit scope of this component did not include testing of all significant accounts of the component but Christabel Cowling has become Senior Statutory Auditor in has contributed to the coverage of significant accounts tested for the current year, following Simon ONeill completing his 5 year the group, including the key audit matters listed above.
As part of the transition, Christabel visited the component teams in France and Brazil at the planning stage.
These visits Of the remaining components that together represent 3% of the included discussions with the component teams on audit strategy, groups profit before tax stated before adjusting items, none are risk identication, as well as meeting with the respective local individually greater than -5% of the groups profit before tax stated management teams and visiting selected operating sites.
Within GB before adjusting items.
For these components, we performed other and Ireland, Christabel has visited all key operating sites, as well procedures, including analytical review, testing of consolidation as the finance functions.
A full day planning event, chaired by journals and intercompany eliminations and foreign currency Christabel, was hosted at the head ofce in Hemel Hempstead to translation recalculations to respond to any potential risks of material communicate the audit plan and the approach to key judgements misstatement to the group financial statements, in addition to the and estimates to management.
We have continued our established specified procedures for applicable components as detailed above.
approach to involvement in component teams through the review of planning and conclusion deliverables.
Christabel also participated in the Brazil and France component teams closing meeting calls in REVENUE 7% which key conclusions were discussed.
7% GB & Group Wide 59% Our application of materiality Functions Full Scope 59 We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the 8% France Full Scope 19 audit, in evaluating the effect of identied misstatements on the Brazil Full Scope 8 audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Ireland Full & Revenue Specic Scope 7 Materiality Other Components 7 The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to inuence 19% the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 9.1 million 2017: 8.2 million, which is approximately 5% of profit before tax stated before adjusting items 2017: 5% of profit before tax ADJUSTED PBT 3 % stated before adjusting items.
We believe that profit before tax 9% stated before adjusting items is the most relevant measure of GB & Group Wide 80% 2% the underlying financial performance of the group, as the primary Functions Full Scope 80 metric used by stakeholders.
The exclusion of adjusting items France Full Scope 13 allows investors to understand better the elements of financial Brazil Full Scope 2 performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior 13% Ireland Full & periods and to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
Adjusted PBT Specic Scope 9 Britvic results announcement excludes adjusting items when Other Components 3 discussing the financial performance of the group.
Starting profit before tax of 145.8m as per the basis Annual Report Changes from the prior year Adjusting items totalling 29.4m per page Adjustments Our scoping remains unchanged from the prior period with the 152 of the Annual Report exception of specic procedures that were performed last year in relation to acquisitions made.
Represents approximately 5% of the profit Involvement with component teams Materiality before tax stated before adjusting items In establishing our overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be undertaken at each of the components by us, as the primary audit engagement team, BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRITVIC PLC CONTINUED report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced Performance materiality and understandable and provides the information necessary The application of materiality at the individual account or balance for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected obtained in the audit: or misstatements exceeds materiality.
Audit committee reporting set out on pages 64 to 67 the On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment section describing the work of the audit committee does not of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit that performance materiality was 50% 2017: 50% of our planning committee: or materiality, namely 4.5m 2017: 4.1m.
Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code set out on page 55 the parts of the Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in The performance materiality set for each component is based on accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current year, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 0.9m to 3.9m 2017: 0.8m to 4.1m.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Reporting threshold In our opinion, the part of the directors remuneration report to An amount below which identied misstatements are considered as be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.5m 2017: 0.4m, the audit: which is set at 5% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on the information given in the strategic report and the directors qualitative grounds.
report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Matters on which we are required to report Other information The other information comprises the information included in the by exception annual report set out on pages 1 to 87 and 149 to154, other than the In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the are responsible for the other information.
audit, we have not identied material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to conclusion thereon.
you if, in our opinion: In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent received from branches not visited by us: or with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit the parent company financial statements and the part of or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we agreement with the accounting records and returns: or are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other not made: or information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude we have not received all the information and explanations we that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we require for our audit.
are required to report that fact.
Responsibilities of directors We have nothing to report in this regard.
As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement set out on page 87, the directors are responsible for the preparation In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give responsibility to specically address the following items in the other a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors information and to report any uncorrected material misstatements of determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial the other information where we conclude that those items meet the statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due following conditions: to fraud or error.
Fair, balanced and understandable set out on page 87 the In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible statement given by the directors that they consider the annual for assessing the group and parent companys ability to continue as 92 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or error.
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identied Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry financial statements testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our the financial statements as a whole are free from material understanding of the business: enquiries of legal counsel, group misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an management, internal audit, divisional management and all full auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance and specic scope management: and focused testing, as referred is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit to in the key audit matters section above.
conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to inuence companys members those matters we are required to state to the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest financial statements.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered to anyone other than the company and the companys members capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify have formed.
and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement website at https: www.
due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate This description forms part of our auditors report.
responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected fraud identied during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for Other matters we are required to address the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged Following the recommendation of the audit committee after the with governance of the entity and management.
completion of a competitive tender process, we were reappointed as auditors by the shareholders and signed an engagement letter Our approach was as follows: dated 16 May 2017.
We were appointed by the company at the we obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory AGM on 31 January 2018 to audit the financial statements for frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined the 52 week period ending 30 September 2018 and subsequent that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagements to specic assertions in the financial statements are those including previous renewals and reappointments since Britvic that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the became a standalone entity upon its otation is 13 years, covering Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the 52 week period ending 1 October 2006 to the 52 week period the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in ending 30 September 2018. which the group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an were not provided to the group or the parent company during effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the 52 week period ended 30 September 2018 and we remain the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing independent of the group and the parent company in conducting Authority, and those laws and regulations relating to food safety, the audit.
occupational health and safety and data protection.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the we understood how the group is complying with those audit committee.
frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit and those responsible for legal and compliance procedures.
Christabel Cowling We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board Senior statutory auditor minutes, papers provided to the Audit Committee and any correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
we assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by Statutory Auditor meeting with management from various parts of the business to Leeds understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
28 November 2018 We also considered performance targets and their inuence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or inuence the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programs and Notes: controls that the group has established to address risks identied, 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Britvic group plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior these matters and accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that management monitors those programs and controls.
Where the may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the to address each identied fraud risk.
These procedures included financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 93
