Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion: Bunzl plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Consolidated and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the Consolidated income statement and Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated cash flow statement, and the Consolidated and Company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the Notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 28 million 2017: 20 million, based on 5% of adjusted profit before tax 2017: 5% of profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: 6 million 2017: 5 million, based on 0.5% of net assets 2017: approximately 0.25% of net assets.
Audit scope We performed audits of the financial information of 88 components in 29 different countries across North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World.
Specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, pensions, acquisitions and the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, were performed by the Group audit team centrally.
Key audit matters Corporate tax exposures Group.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Group.
Defined benefit pension schemes Group and Company.
156 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations related to breaches of environmental regulations and unethical and prohibited business practices, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Listing Rules.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to manipulate financial results and management bias in accounting estimates.
The Group engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and or component auditors included discussions with in-house legal counsel, assessment of matters reported on the Groups whistleblowing helpline, challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates and testing journal entries.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Corporate tax exposures Group Refer to page 70 Audit Committee report, page 109 Accounting policies We assessed managements process for identifying uncertain tax positions and pages 119 and 120 Note 7. and the related accounting policy of providing for tax exposures.
The Group operates in a number of countries with complex taxation rules We engaged our taxation specialists to assist us in challenging the and regulations.
The interpretation of these complex regulations and the appropriateness of managements judgements in relation to these positions unknown future outcome of pending judgements by the tax authorities result and to understand the current status of tax assessments and investigations, in the need to provide against a number of uncertain tax positions.
including monitoring developments in ongoing disputes and regulatory changes.
We read recent correspondence with local tax authorities to satisfy We focused on this area because of the risk surrounding the level of estimation ourselves that the tax provisions had been appropriately recorded or adjusted and judgement that is necessary in determining the provisions required.
to reflect the latest external developments.
We also considered factors such as possible penalties and interest.
These procedures assisted in our corroboration of managements position on the amount of significant tax exposures and the provisions and disclosures made in the financial statements.
We then determined whether the calculations were in line with the accounting standards and that the methodology and principles had been applied consistently.
Based on the procedures performed, we determined the provisions reflect managements current best estimate of the expected economic outflows.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosures in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted no material issues arising from our work.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 157 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Business combinations Group Refer to page 70 Audit Committee report, page 108 Accounting policies Management relies on external valuation specialists for larger acquisitions and pages 144 to 146 Note 25. to value significant intangibles acquired in business combinations.
Where management has relied on such specialists, we assessed their objectivity and Given that the Group continues to make significant investment in competence and tested the results of their work and found no material issues.
acquisitions, accounting for business combinations is an area of focus due to the level of judgement involved.
We focused in particular on the following areas: Business combinations can involve judgements in relation to the value of We evaluated the consideration paid or payable in respect of acquisitions made: assets and liabilities that are recognised on acquisition, particularly the We challenged the methodology and key assumptions used in determining the allocation of purchase consideration to goodwill and separately identified value of the customer relationship assets for the more significant acquisitions: intangible assets.
We determined whether the cash flows applied within the valuation models and the key assumptions such as the discount rates, growth rates, customer attrition and period for amortisation, were appropriate: and We assessed material adjustments made to prior period acquisitions.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets Group Refer to page 70 Audit Committee report, page 110 Accounting policies In our testing of managements annual goodwill and other intangible and pages 123 and 124 Note 10. assets impairment calculations, we used valuation experts to assist our evaluation of the appropriateness of the models and the key assumptions The Group has material goodwill balances of 1,420.4m 2017: 1,378.0m used by management.
and customer relationship intangible assets of 941.2m 2017: 954.6m spread across multiple geographies and relating to multiple cash generating We evaluated the reasonableness of the directors cash flow forecasts units CGUs.
by comparing the assumptions made to internal and external data.
In assessing whether the carrying amount of the goodwill assets has been In particular: impaired, management considers forecast cash flows of the 11 individual We compared short term revenue growth rates to the latest strategic plans CGUs which are identified on a market or geographical basis.
and found them to be consistent: We focused our goodwill impairment procedures on the CGUs with the We determined that long term growth rates are generally consistent when lowest levels of headroom between each respective value in use model compared to third party nominal growth GDP rates: and carrying value.
We found the achievability of future margins to be plausible based on past We also focused our impairment procedures for other intangible assets on and current performance and consistent with budgets: recently acquired businesses or in circumstances where a triggering event We challenged the discount rate used to determine the present value occurred during the year and where a further impairment assessment was by assessing the cost of capital for the Company and comparable performed by management.
organisations and considered them to be acceptable: and Managements impairment assessments involves significant estimation, We obtained evidence to assess historical accuracy in managements principally relating to short and long term revenue growth, future profitability forecasting process.
Due to the acquisitive nature of the Group and the We also evaluated managements triggering event assessment regarding magnitude of the aggregated related goodwill and intangible assets, together other intangible assets.
with the subjectivity of the principal assumptions, a significant amount of audit effort was required, particularly as some of these assumptions are dependent As described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, on economic factors and trading conditions specific to overseas territories.
management concluded that, based on their own sensitivity calculations, no reasonable change in assumptions would lead to an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets.
Having ascertained the extent of changes in key assumptions either individually or collectively that would be required for goodwill and other intangible assets to be materially impaired, we considered such a change in those key assumptions to be unlikely.
Defined benefit pension schemes Group and Company Refer to page 70 Audit Committee report, page 112 Accounting policies, We used our own actuarial experts to satisfy ourselves that the assumptions pages 138 to 141 Note 21 and pages 153 and 154 Note 9 of the Company.
used in calculating the US and UK pension scheme liabilities are appropriate, including confirming that salary increases and mortality rate assumptions The Group has defined benefit pension schemes with material schemes in were consistent with relevant benchmarks.
We determined that the discount the US and the UK with a net surplus in the UK of 3.4m in both the and inflation rates used in the valuation of the pension scheme liabilities were Consolidated and Company balance sheet and a net deficit across remaining consistent with our internally developed benchmarks and, where available, schemes of 41.9m at the current year end 2017: net deficit of 51.0m in the with those disclosed in the published financial statements of other companies Consolidated balance sheet.
The overall deficit is material in the context of as at 31 December 2018.
In each case we considered the assumptions made the Consolidated balance sheet.
by management to be reasonable in light of the available evidence.
Management estimation is required in relation to the measurement of pension scheme obligations, and management employs independent actuarial experts to assist it in determining appropriate assumptions such as inflation levels, discount rates, salary increases and mortality rates.
Movements in these assumptions can have a material impact on the determination of the liability and, therefore, the extent of any surplus or deficit.
158 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is organised geographically into four business areas, being North America, Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World.
We identified one financially significant component, being North America, where a full scope audit has been performed.
In addition to this, we identified four components across Continental Europe, UK & Ireland and Rest of the World for which a full scope audit of their financial information was required.
In order to satisfy the request of the Audit Committee and management, we performed full scope audits and other procedures on a further 83 components.
The components where we performed audit procedures covered over 94% of Group revenue, adjusted profit before taxation and total assets.
Where work was performed by component auditors, detailed instructions were issued by us and the Group audit team visited North America, Brazil, France, Belgium, Austria, Australia, China and the UK.
Telephone discussions were also held with component auditors at these locations and a number of other component teams that the Group audit team did not visit in person.
In addition, specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, pensions, acquisitions and the impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, were performed by the Group audit team centrally.
The Group audit team also performed the audit of the standalone Company financial statements, for which all work was performed by the Group audit team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality 28 million 2017: 20 million.
How we determined it 5% of adjusted profit before tax.
Rationale for Given that the Groups businesses are profit oriented and Considering the nature of the business and activities in Bunzl benchmark applied the directors use adjusted profit measures to assess the plc holding activities we use the Company net assets as a performance of the business, we believe that adjusted profit basis for the calculation of the overall materiality level.
before tax is the best benchmark to use.
We changed to this benchmark in 2018 to remove volatility in profits and materiality and because the Groups performance is monitored on this measure, both internally and externally.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components ranged up to 25 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.4 million Group audit 2017: 1 million and 1.4 million Company audit 2017: 1 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms on which the United directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due to Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate all of the 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
potential implications on the Companys trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 159 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc continued Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 52 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 155, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 69 and 70 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
160 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 155, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the directors on 19 May 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is five years, covering the years ended 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2018.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 25 February 2019 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2018 161
