Statement of Directors Responsibilities Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which includes the Strategic Report: the Directors Report: the Report on the audit of the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report: and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Opinion Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have In our opinion: prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Burberry Group plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and applicable law.
Under view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of year then ended: the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the Group financial statements and law : and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101, have been followed for the Company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group Balance Sheet as at prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will 31 March 2018, the Group Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year then ended, the Group continue in business.
Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended, the Group Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, and the Company Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2018, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity for the year then ended: the accounting The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and policies: and the notes to the financial statements.
Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Basis for opinion other irregularities.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Independence The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 72 to 73 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting provided to the Group or the Company.
Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: Other than those disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018. the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
These statements were approved by the Board on 15 May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Marco Gobbetti Julie Brown Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating and Chief Financial Officer 128 129 129 Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 20 million 2017: 19 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
Overall Company materiality: 16 million 2017: 16 million, based on 1% of total assets.
We conducted audit work over seven reporting units across five territories in which the MATERIALITY Group has significant operations.
The reporting units where we performed an audit of their complete financial information account for 74% of Group revenue and 80% of Group profit before tax.
The Group engagement team visited, in person, all component audit teams, attended audit clearance meetings and discussed the audit approach and findings with those teams.
We maintained regular contact with our component teams and evaluated the outcome of AUDIT SCOPE their audit work.
FOCUS Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions.
Accounting for the transfer of Beauty operations to Coty.
Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures.
The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to significant components.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, review of significant component auditors' work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed noncompliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
130 130 Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Our audit approach Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Overview Overall Group materiality: 20 million 2017: 19 million, based on 5% of profit before tax.
Inventory provisioning The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to For both finished goods and raw materials, we critically changing consumer demands and fashion trends, increasing the assessed the basis for the inventory provisions, the consistency level of judgement involved in estimating inventory provisions of provisioning in line with policy and the rationale for the We conducted audit work over seven reporting units across five territories in which the inventory as at 31 March 2018: 411.8m: refer to note 17 to the recording of specific provisions in the context of managements Group has significant operations.
The reporting units where we performed an audit of their complete financial information This key audit matter includes the consideration of inventory In doing so we tested the provision calculations and determined account for 74% of Group revenue and 80% of Group profit before tax.
provisions relating to both finished goods and raw materials.
that they appropriately took into account the ageing profile of The Group engagement team visited, in person, all component audit teams, attended audit Judgement is required to assess the appropriate level of inventory, the process for identifying specific problem inventory clearance meetings and discussed the audit approach and findings with those teams.
provisioning for items that may be ultimately destroyed or and historical loss rates.
We assessed the key assumptions in We maintained regular contact with our component teams and evaluated the outcome of sold below cost as a result of a reduction in consumer demand, managements estimate including expected future use of both their audit work.
trading conditions, and the one label strategy.
Such judgements raw materials and finished goods.
include managements expectations for future sales based on As a result, we satisfied ourselves that both finished goods and current forecasts, and inventory liquidation plans.
raw materials inventory provisions have been prepared in line with policy and have been calculated and recorded based on historical trends, as well as managements expectations for future Inventory provisioning.
sales and inventory management plans.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures.
The Group has a material operational asset base which may be We tested managements assessment of indicators for vulnerable to impairment in the event of trading performance both impairment and onerous lease provisions taking into being below expectations.
consideration the challenging trading conditions in some The value-in-use models used to determine the amount of any territories, and are satisfied that they appropriately took into impairment charge are based on assumptions including revenue account internal and external impairment indicators, including forecasts, gross and operating margins, which are store specific, the trading performance of each store.
and discount rates, which are country specific refer to note 14 We tested the value-in-use models for assets where an to the financial statements.
Such stores may be located in impairment trigger or potential requirement for an onerous lease In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
both emerging markets, which are typically more volatile than provision has been identified, including challenging management developed markets, as well as more established economies such forecasts and other assumptions including discount rates and We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates, as the US, where the Group is working towards consolidating its long-term growth rates, and found that these assumptions position within the market.
and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material The same judgements are used in determining whether an In particular we focused on the forecasts for sales growth and are onerous lease provision is required on a retail store and in misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate satisfied that they reflect reasonable expectations for each store, concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused on laws and regulations calculating the appropriate amount of the provision.
In addition, taking into account the maturity of each store, the market in judgement is required in assessing whether there are any that could give rise to a material misstatement in the Group and Company financial statements, including, but not limited to, the which it is located and managements specific plans for Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, UK tax legislation and equivalent local laws and regulations applicable to alternative uses for stores which may affect the amount of improving store performance.
Our tests included, but were not limited to, review of the financial statement disclosures to underlying Given the judgement inherent in the impairment and onerous supporting documentation, review of correspondence with the regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of Managements assessment resulted in the recognition of a lease provision calculations, particularly relating to revenue net impairment charge for the year ended 31 March 2018 of management, review of significant component auditors' work and review of internal audit reports in so far as they related to the growth assumptions, management has disclosed a sensitivity financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non- 16.8m 2017: 23.0m, including 9.6m 2017: 15.3m for analysis in the financial statements refer to note 14 to the store impairments and 7.2m 2017: 7.7m for onerous retail compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we financial statements.
Having re-performed the sensitivity calculations and considered We focused on this area because of the inherent judgement whether any other sensitivities might be more appropriate, we We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of involved in determining key assumptions such as future sales are satisfied that the financial statements adequately disclose growth, profit margins and discount rates, and the magnitude management override of internal controls, including testing journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the the potential risk of future impairment if the performance of directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
of the assets under consideration and the lease obligations.
the stores with indicators of impairment do not meet managements expectations.
130 131 131 Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Accounting for the transfer of Beauty operations to Coty The Group entered into two agreements for the transfer of We obtained and reviewed managements valuation exercise and its Beauty operations to Coty.
This transaction completed in related calculation for the allocation of the upfront payment October 2017 and constituted a licence to sell its fragrance and between consideration and deferred royalty income, respectively.
beauty products and the transfer of the Groups Beauty In conjunction with our Valuations experts, we considered the operations to Coty.
methodology applied and the underlying assumptions in the The Group received an upfront payment of 130m for the licence related valuation model to assess whether the approach was in and related transfer of the Beauty operations under the two line with market practice.
Management completed a valuation exercise to To provide additional evidence to support the amount allocated apportion the upfront payment across the two agreements, as deferred licence income, assisted by our Valuations experts, determining that 100m of this upfront payment is in respect of we compared the implied royalty rate for the Beauty licence to the licence.
This has been recognised as deferred royalty income other rates, based on a review of available information, and found on the balance sheet which will be recognised over the life of the it to lie within a reasonable range.
The remaining 30m of this upfront payment We inspected the two agreements in respect of the transaction, was assessed to represent consideration for the transfer of the including key terms.
We vouched receipt of the upfront payment Beauty operations.
and other costs settled on completion to bank statements.
We We focussed on this area because of the size of the upfront performed substantive testing of any other costs associated with payment, and the judgement and degree of estimation required the transaction, and re-performed managements calculation of in this valuation exercise to allocate the payment.
Having performed the procedures above, we have concluded that management's valuation exercise and related judgement to allocate 30m as consideration for the business disposal, and 100m as deferred licence income to be recognised over the life of the licence, is appropriate.
We consider that the business disposal transaction and related judgements in respect of the upfront payment have been properly disclosed in the financial statements.
Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures The presentation of results continues to be a focus area for We considered managements recognition of adjusting items and regulators, particularly the use of adjusted and underlying the related presentation and accompanying disclosures and are measures to explain business performance, and the satisfied that the selection of adjusting items is consistent with classification of items as adjusting.
There is a risk that the use prior years, in line with managements accounting policies and of such measures means that the overall presentation of results adequately explained in the financial statements.
is not fair, balanced and understandable.
We noted no instances of inappropriate or inconsistent In the year ended 31 March 2018 the Group has identified six presentation of results and non-GAAP measures.
Specifically, adjusting items, being the gain on disposal of Beauty operations, we are satisfied that non-GAAP measures are adequately costs relating to the disposal of Beauty operations, restructuring explained and reconciled to GAAP measures.
costs, goodwill impairment, revaluation of deferred consideration liability and the finance charge thereon, and the taxation charge relating to the effect of the change in US tax legislation refer to notes 6, 7, and 10 to the financial statements.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
132 132 Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and Accounting for the transfer of Beauty operations to Coty The Group entered into two agreements for the transfer of We obtained and reviewed managements valuation exercise and the industry in which they operate.
its Beauty operations to Coty.
The Group operates across three regions and is structured across two segments, being retail wholesale and licensing.
The financial statements are a consolidation of 98 reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and holding methodology applied and the underlying assumptions in the companies across the two segments.
The Group received an upfront payment of 130m for the licence related valuation model to assess whether the approach was in and related transfer of the Beauty operations under the two line with market practice.
Based on our risk and materiality assessments, we determined which reporting units required an audit of their complete financial agreements.
Management completed a valuation exercise to To provide additional evidence to support the amount allocated apportion the upfront payment across the two agreements, information having considered the relative significance of each entity to the Group, locations with significant inherent risks and the as deferred licence income, assisted by our Valuations experts, overall coverage obtained over each material line item in the consolidated financial statements.
We identified seven reporting units determining that 100m of this upfront payment is in respect of we compared the implied royalty rate for the Beauty licence to the licence.
This has been recognised as deferred royalty income which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics.
other rates, based on a review of available information, and found on the balance sheet which will be recognised over the life of the it to lie within a reasonable range.
Included within these seven components was the parent Company.
These reporting units are located in China, Hong Kong and Korea licence agreement.
The remaining 30m of this upfront payment and two are located in each of the US and the UK.
We used local teams in these countries to perform those full scope audits relating We inspected the two agreements in respect of the transaction, was assessed to represent consideration for the transfer of the including key terms.
We vouched receipt of the upfront payment to the relevant reporting units.
We We focussed on this area because of the size of the upfront performed substantive testing of any other costs associated with Of these, three reporting units have been determined to be financially significant based on their contribution to Group revenue or payment, and the judgement and degree of estimation required profit before taxation.
This scope of work, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level relating primarily to the the transaction, and re-performed managements calculation of in this valuation exercise to allocate the payment.
consolidation, taxation, litigation, impairment and earnings per share, accounted for 74% 2017: 75% of Group revenue and 80% 2017: 79% of Group profit before taxation.
Having performed the procedures above, we have concluded that management's valuation exercise and related judgement to In addition to the audits performed on full-scope components, we gathered other audit evidence across the rest of the Group allocate 30m as consideration for the business disposal, and 100m as deferred licence income to be recognised over the through testing of the Groups global monitoring controls, Group-level analytical procedures and testing at the Leeds and Hong Kong Shared Service Centres.
This gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
life of the licence, is appropriate.
We consider that the business disposal transaction and related judgements in respect of We issued formal written instructions to all component auditors setting out the audit work to be performed by each of them.
The the upfront payment have been properly disclosed in the financial statements.
Group audit team visited reporting units in the UK, US, China, Hong Kong and Korea during the course of the year in order to attend local management meetings.
Throughout the year, the Group audit team held regular meetings with all reporting units at all stages of Presentation of results and non-GAAP measures the audit to direct and supervise the work of these local teams and to ensure that we had a full and comprehensive understanding of the results of their work particularly insofar as it related to the identified areas of focus.
The Group engagement team also The presentation of results continues to be a focus area for We considered managements recognition of adjusting items and reviewed selected audit working papers for certain component teams.
regulators, particularly the use of adjusted and underlying the related presentation and accompanying disclosures and are measures to explain business performance, and the satisfied that the selection of adjusting items is consistent with Materiality classification of items as adjusting.
There is a risk that the use prior years, in line with managements accounting policies and The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, of such measures means that the overall presentation of results adequately explained in the financial statements.
together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit is not fair, balanced and understandable.
We noted no instances of inappropriate or inconsistent procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both In the year ended 31 March 2018 the Group has identified six presentation of results and non-GAAP measures.
Specifically, individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
adjusting items, being the gain on disposal of Beauty operations, we are satisfied that non-GAAP measures are adequately costs relating to the disposal of Beauty operations, restructuring explained and reconciled to GAAP measures.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: costs, goodwill impairment, revaluation of deferred consideration liability and the finance charge thereon, and the taxation charge Group financial statements Company financial statements relating to the effect of the change in US tax legislation refer to Overall materiality 20 million 2017: 19 million.
notes 6, 7, and 10 to the financial statements.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Burberry is a profit orientated entity and We determined materiality based on total We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in our report.
hence profit before taxation has been assets, which is more applicable than a selected as the benchmark.
performance-related measure as the Company is an investment holding company for the Group.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 4 million and 16 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1 million Group audit 2017: 1 million and 1 million Company audit 2017: 1 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
132 133 133 Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
or draw attention to in respect of the directors statement However, because not all future events or conditions can be in the financial statements about whether the directors predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 67 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 67 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
134 134 Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Going concern We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making enquiries and considering the directors process supporting Reporting obligation Outcome their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and We are required to report if we have anything material to add We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
or draw attention to in respect of the directors statement However, because not all future events or conditions can be Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules in the financial statements about whether the directors predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the The statement given by the directors, on page 128, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in of approval of the financial statements.
the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 93 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors The directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this Directors Remuneration report, any form of assurance thereon.
In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities set out on page 128, the directors are responsible for the misstatement of the other information.
preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Companies Act 2006 have been included.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance Report for the year ended 31 March 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with The directors confirmation on page 67 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
134 135 135 Independent auditors report to the members of Burberry Group plc Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Based on available records, we were appointed by the members prior to 31 March 1968 to audit the financial statements for at least the year ended 31 March 1968 and subsequent financial periods.
Therefore, the period of uninterrupted engagement is at least 50 years, covering the years ended 31 March 1968 to 31 March 2018.
Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 15 May 2018 136 136
