118 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Cairn Energy PLCs group financial statements and company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups loss and the groups and the companys cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the companys financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the group and company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the group income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the group and company statements of cash flows and the group and company statements of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the company.
Other than those disclosed in note 6.4 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall group materiality: $20.0 million 2017: $32.5 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Overall company materiality: $17.9 million 2017: $28.3 million, based on 1% of total assets.
Materiality We performed the majority of audit work in the UK, with PwC Norway performing the audit work on the Norway component.
The group audit team visited Norway as part of the audit process.
Our audit scope included 97% of group total assets.
Audit scope Risk of impairment of exploration producing assets and goodwill.
Key audit Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn India Limited.
ma ers The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, including fraud Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations relate to the wide variety of jurisdictions in which the group operates, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements including the risk of override of controls, and determined that the principal risks were related to areas of estimate in the financial statements for example assessment of impairment of assets and posting of inappropriate journal entries in order to improve reported performance.
The group audit team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the group engagement team and component auditors included: Discussions with management, internal and external legal counsel and individuals outside the finance function, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud: Understanding of managements controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities: Review of Board minutes and Internal Audit reports: Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to assessments of asset impairment: and Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted by unexpected users, journals posted at unexpected times for example weekends, journals reflecting unusual account combinations or journals with descriptions containing unexpected keywords.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Financial Statements There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Risk of impairment of exploration producing assets and goodwill We challenged managements assessment of impairment triggers for Exploration assets of $595 million relate to costs incurred where there is exploration assets under IFRS 6 by considering license conditions, the expected future activity but no approved development plan at present, companys budgets and plans for, and results of, drilling.
We did not identify primarily Cairns discovery offshore Senegal which accounts for $463 any additional triggers that had not been identified by management.
We tested managements impairment reviews of goodwill, Senegal Developing and Producing assets of $1,023 million reflects spend to exploration assets and the North Sea development producing assets 31 December 2018 on Catcher, Kraken and Nova in the North Sea.
by performing the work described below: reviewing the mathematical accuracy of key formulae in the The goodwill balance of $126 million arose on the acquisitions of Agora impairment models and found no exceptions: and Nautical Petroleum in 2012. comparing the assumptions used within the impairment review Our audit risk in respect of impairment has been assessed as significant, models to approved budgets and business plans and other evidence consistent with prior year, because the market capitalisation of the group of future intentions for the relevant assets, which we found to be continues to be below the groups consolidated net assets.
As at materially consistent: 31 December 2018 this difference was $0.3bn 2017: $0.5bn.
This is an comparing reserves and production profiles and matching capital and indicator that the groups assets may be impaired.
operating expenditure forecasts to group approved values, operator In addition, management identified specific impairment indicators on the estimates or reserves reports from third party auditors.
Where there Kraken producing asset and within the Senegal exploration assets.
were differences we sought explanations for these.
We evaluated the thirdparty reserves auditors independence and expertise and Following impairment reviews, management recorded impairment of discussed their reports directly with them: $166 million on the carrying value of Kraken but no impairment was benchmarking key assumptions including commodity price and necessary on Senegal.
inflation against external data and recent public announcements In determining the fair value of a Cash Generating Unit, Cairn from other oil companies: management are required to make significant judgements in relation to comparing the discount rates used for each asset to expected ranges the key assumptions such as: prepared by our own valuations specialists: long-term oil price: reviewing managements sensitivities and performing additional reserve estimates: sensitivity analysis over key assumptions in the model in order to production volume profiles: assess the potential impact of a range of possible outcomes: and cost profiles and escalation applied: and assessing the inclusion of all appropriate assets and liabilities in the discount rates.
cash generating unit and in particular given that the recoverable We focused on this area due to the significant values and the nature of amount is determined based on a fair value less costs of disposal, the judgements and assumptions management are required to make in the inclusion or exclusion of certain tax related balances and agreed determining the existence of impairment triggers and the amount of that all relevant balances had been included.
We found certain assumptions used by the group, including the Refer to notes 2.3 and 2.7 to the financial statements.
long-term oil price, to be at the upper end of a market benchmark range, while other assumptions, for example the use of a 3 year forward curve, were around the median of a market benchmark range.
We found that the discount rates for the North Sea assets were towards the higher end of our expected range, but the discount rate used for Senegal was below our expected range.
Our review therefore focused on the sensitivity of the impairment assessments to movements in the reserves and production profiles, long-term oil price and, specifically for Senegal, discount rates.
We performed sensitivity analysis on these assumptions and did not identify any potential impairments on the Senegal, Catcher or Nova assets using reasonably possible scenarios.
Our sensitivity analysis over the Kraken impairment assessment identified an impairment in all scenarios.
We concluded that the approach and assumptions taken by management in respect of the impairment charge that was recognised on Kraken were, as a whole, reasonable.
After performing the testing above, we concluded that the impairment assessments were performed appropriately and in accordance with the requirements of accounting standards.
We also reviewed the related disclosures in the Annual Report for compliance with accounting standards and consistency with the results of our work, with no matters arising.
120 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC continued In assessing the potential impact of theassessment order fromthe Indian Potential impact on tax provisions of tax enquiry in relation to Cairn tax authorities we performed the following procedures: India Limited understood the group reconstruction under review by the Indian tax On 22 January 2014 the group received a request for information from authorities, and the potential basis for any claim, including the relevant the Indian tax authorities in respect of amendments introduced in the legislation and other precedent: 2012 Indian Finance Act which seek to tax prior year transactions under read correspondence received by the group from the Indian tax legislation applied retroactively.
At the same time, the group received authorities, updating our evidence from prior audits: an order not to sell the remaining shares in Cairn India Limited now discussed with management the advice and action they had taken Vedanta Limited.
with regards to the enquiry and reviewed any associated documents: In February 2016, a final assessment order was received from the Indian discussed the matter directly with the groups external legal counsel tax authorities for an amount of $4.3 billion 290 billion INR including to obtain corroboration for managements position: and interest and penalties.
considered the accounting treatment of the sale of the groups In tranches through the year to 31 December 2018, the Indian tax shareholding in Vedanta Limited and the seizure of the proceeds authorities sold the majority of Cairns shareholding in Vedanta Limited, by the Indian tax authority.
seizing the proceeds as payment against this final assessment.
We concluded that the position adopted in the financial statements was Cairn are continuing to contest the assessment order in the Indian courts reasonable based on the work we performed, in particular: and a court of international arbitration and at this point there is still no managements view that no provision for tax should be made at this certainty over the outcome.
time: and Management have made judgements relating to the likelihood of an the adequacy of the disclosure in the Annual Report.
obligation arising and whether there is a need to recognise a provision or disclose a contingent liability.
We therefore focused on this area as a result of the uncertainty and the potential material impact to the group.
Refer to Note 5.5 to the financial statements.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the group and the company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
For operating purposes, the group is structured around three key segments: UK & Norway, Senegal and International.
During 2018, all of the development and production activity has been in UK & Norway, with the main exploration activity occurring in Senegal.
For accounting purposes, the group is structured into24 reporting units or components.
The majority of the finance function is based in Edinburgh, other than the UK & Norway component which is primarily accounted for in Stavanger, Norway.
Work performed by PwC Norway was limited to the Norwegian entity included in the UK & Norway component and all other audit work was performed by our group audit team.
Our group scoping was based on total assets, consistent with our approach to materiality, and identifiedthree financially significant components, comprising a high proportion of total group assets, which required an audit of their complete financial information.
A furthersix components were subject to procedures addressing specific financial statement line items to obtain sufficient coverage.
The group audit team attended an audit planning meeting in Norway, as well as being directly involved in the scoping and review of the work performed by PwC Norway, directing areas of audit work to address the specific audit risks identified by the group audit team as relevant to the Norwegian entity, and maintained contact throughout the execution and completion of the audit, including an audit clearance call involving the group audit team and PwC Norway.
Our group audit approach resulted in scope coverage of97% of the consolidated total assets, our key benchmark for planning and scoping our audit.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Company financial statements Overall materiality $20.0 million 2017: $32.5 million.
How we determined it 1% of total assets.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that total assets is an appropriate The parent companys purpose is to hold measure that reflects the groups portfolio of oil investments in the subsidiaries of the group.
and gas exploration and production assets.
The parent company has limited income statement transactions, therefore the appropriate benchmark for assessing materiality is total assets.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Financial Statements For each component in the scope of our group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between $0.3 million and $17.9 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above $1.0 million group audit 2017: $1.6 million and $0.9 million Company audit 2017: $1.4 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups and companys ability adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial to continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms on which the statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties United Kingdom may withdraw from the European Union, which is to the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern currently due to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the to evaluate all of the potential implications on the companys trade, financial statements.
customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to Going We have nothing to report.
Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 122 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Cairn Energy PLC continued The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 32 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The directors explanation on page 33 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the directors, on page 117, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the groups and companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group and company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on page 80 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors statement relating to the companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 117, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Financial Statements Other required reporting Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or the company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the directors on 23 May 2013 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 6 years, covering the years ended 31 December 2013 to 31 December 2018.
Lindsay Gardiner Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Edinburgh 11 March 2019 124 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial Statements Contents 125 Group Income Statement 125 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 126 Group Balance Sheet 127 Group Statement of Cash Flows 128 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 129 Section 1 Basis of Preparation 129 1.1 Significant Accounting Policies 132 1.2 Going Concern 132 1.3 Restatement of Comparative Financial Statements on Adoption of IFRS 9 133 Section 2 Oil and Gas Assets and Operations 134 2.1 Gross Profit: Revenue and Cost of Sales 136 2.2 Intangible Exploration Appraisal Assets 138 2.3 Property, Plant & Equipment Development Producing Assets 140 2.4 Provisions Decommissioning 140 2.5 Capital Commitments 141 2.6 Intangible Assets Goodwill 142 2.7 Impairment Testing Sensitivity Analysis 143 Section 3 Financial Assets, Working Capital and Long-term Liabilities 144 3.1 Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss 144 3.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents 145 3.3 Loans and Borrowings 146 3.4 Finance Lease Liability 147 3.5 Trade and Other Receivables 148 3.6 Derivative Financial Instruments 149 3.7 Trade and Other Payables 150 3.8 Deferred Revenue 150 3.9 Financial Instruments 152 3.10 Financial Risk Management: Objectives and Policies 154 Section 4 Income Statement Analysis 154 4.1 Segmental Analysis 156 4.2 Pre-Award Costs 157 4.3 Administrative Expenses 157 4.4 Employee Benefits: Staff Costs, Share-Based Payments and Directors Emoluments 159 4.5 Finance Income 160 4.6 Finance Costs 160 4.7 Earnings per Ordinary Share 161 Section 5 Taxation 162 5.1 Tax Strategy and Governance 162 5.2 Tax Credit Charge on Loss Profit for the Year 163 5.3 Income Tax Asset 164 5.4 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 166 5.5 Contingent Liabilities India Tax Assessment 167 Section 6 Capital Structure and Other Disclosures 167 6.1 Issued Capital and Reserves 168 6.2 Capital Management 168 6.3 Guarantees 169 6.4 Auditors Remuneration 170 Company Balance Sheet 171 Company Statement of Cash Flows 172 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 173 Section 7 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 173 7.1 Basis of Preparation 173 7.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents 173 7.3 Other Receivables 173 7.4 Derivative Financial Instruments 174 7.5 Trade and Other Payables 174 7.6 Financial Instruments 175 7.7 Investments in Subsidiaries 177 7.8 Capital Management 177 7.9 Related Party Transactions
