Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Caledonia Investments plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 27 October 2011.
The period of total uninterrupted We have audited the financial statements of engagement is for the 7 financial years ended 31 Caledonia Investments plc for the year ended 31 March 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical March 2018 which comprise the Group statement responsibilities under, and we remain independent of of comprehensive income, statement of financial the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements position for Group and Company, statement of including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed changes in equity for Group and Company, public interest entities.
No non-audit services statement of cash flows for Group and Company, prohibited by that standard were provided.
and the related notes, including the accounting policies on pages 74 to 78.
Overview In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair Materiality: 16.6m 2017:17.5m view of the state of the Groups and of the group financial 0.9% 2017: 0.9% of total asset parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2018 statements as a and of the Groups profit for the year then whole ended: Coverage 100% 2017: 100% of group the Group financial statements have been loss profit before tax properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : Recurring risks Valuation of unlisted the parent Company financial statements have investments been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
66 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matter unchanged from 2017, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Valuation of unlisted Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: investments for the 51.4% 2017: 49.9% of the Control operation: Documenting and assessing the design and group and for the groups total assets by value and implementation and operational effectiveness of the investment valuation company 51.6% 2017: 50.3% of the processes and controls: 963.0 m: 2017: companys total assets by value 972.1m are held in investments where no Control observation: Attendance at bi-annual Valuations Committee quoted market price is available.
meetings and Audit Committee meetings where we assessed the Audit Refer to page 42 Audit Unlisted investments comprise Committees and Valuations Committees challenge and approval of Committee Report, page investments in equity, investment unlisted investment valuations: 78 accounting policy property and funds.
and page 82 financial Historical Comparisons: Assessment of investment realisations in the disclosures.
Unlisted investments are measured period, comparing actual investment sales proceeds to prior year-end at fair value, which is established in valuations to understand the reasons for significant variances and accordance with International determine whether they are indicative of bias and error in the groups Private Equity and Venture Capital approach to valuations: Valuations Guidelines by using measurements of value such as Methodology choice: In the context of observed industry best practice and price of recent orderly transactions, the provisions of the Internal Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation earnings multiples and net assets Guidelines, we challenged the appropriateness of the valuation basis and valuing fund interests.
There is selected: a significant risk over the judgements and estimates inherent Our valuations experience: Challenging the investment manager on key in the valuations and therefore one judgments affecting investee company valuations, such as discount factors, of the key areas that our audit and the choice of benchmark for earnings multiples.
We compared key focused on.
underlying financial data inputs to external sources such as financial information of comparable businesses, the investee company audited accounts and management information as applicable.
We challenged the assumptions around sustainability of earnings based on the plans of investee companies and whether these are achievable and we obtained an understanding of existing and prospective investee company cash flows to understand whether borrowings can be serviced or refinancing may be required.
Our work included consideration of events which occurred subsequent to the year end up until the date of this audit report.
Comparing valuations: Where a recent transaction has been used to value any holding, we obtained an understanding of the circumstances surrounding the transaction and whether it was considered to be on an arms-length basis and suitable as an input into a valuation.
We also assessed whether subsequent changes or events such as market or entity specific factors would imply a change in value.
For the valuation of fund interests, we obtained and agreed the latest reported net asset values from the fund managers.
Assessing transparency: Consideration of the appropriateness, in accordance with relevant accounting standards, of the disclosures in respect of unlisted investments and the disclosure of changing one or more inputs to reasonably possible alternative valuation assumptions.
Our results: We found the valuation of unlisted investments to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 67 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report continued 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview Total Assets Materiality of the scope of our audit 1,849m 2017: 1,949m 16.6m 2017: 17.5m Materiality for the Group and Company financial 16.6m statements as a whole was set at 16.6 million 2017: Whole financial 17.5 million, determined with reference to a statements materiality 2017: 17.5m benchmark of total group assets, of which it represents 0.9% 2017: 0.9%.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 0.5m 2017: 0.88m, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
The Group team performed the audit of the Group as if it was a single aggregated set of financial information, Total Assets 0.5m including the audit of the parent company.
The audit Group materiality Misstatements reported to the was performed using the materiality levels set out audit committee 2017: above and covered 100% of total group revenue, group 0.88m profit before tax and total group assets and was all performed at the Groups head office in London.
Group profit before tax Group revenue Group total assets 100% 100% 100% 2017 100% 2017 100% 2017 100% Key: Full scope for group audit purposes 2018 Full scope for group audit purposes 2017 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern Strategic report and directors report We are required to report to you if: Based solely on our work on the other information: we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to we have not identified material misstatements in the the directors statement in page 64 to the financial statements on the strategic report and the directors report: use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material in our opinion the information given in those reports for uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and the financial year is consistent with the financial Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months statements: and from the date of approval of the financial statements: or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on pages 34 to accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
37 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Directors remuneration report We have nothing to report in these respects.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration 5.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report to be audited has been properly prepared in Report accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
68 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability 7.
Respective responsibilities Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial Directors responsibilities statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 64, the attention to in relation to: directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial the directors confirmation within the viability statement page statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair 62 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable principal risks facing the Group, including those that would the preparation of financial statements that are free from material threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: assessing the Group liquidity: and parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern: and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease the directors explanation in the viability statement of how they operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be Auditors responsibilities appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue the financial statements as a whole are free from material in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see period of their assessment, including any related disclosures below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not assumptions.
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and Corporate governance disclosures are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of We are required to report to you if: users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs and the directors statement that they consider that the annual website at www.
report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Irregularities ability to detect necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be performance, business model and strategy: or expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from the section of the annual report describing the work of the our sector experience, through discussion with the directors and Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters other management as required by auditing standards, and from communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
inspection of the groups legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance related company legislation as well as the companys qualification Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven as an Investment Trust under UK tax legislation, any breach of provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the which could lead to the company losing various deductions and Listing Rules for our review.
exemptions from UK corporation tax.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our We have nothing to report in these respects.
procedures on the related financial statement items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance are required to report by exception throughout the audit.
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of if, in our opinion: irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our received from branches not visited by us: or responsibilities the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Companys members those matters we are required to state to are not made: or them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest we have not received all the information and explanations we extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility require for our audit.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, We have nothing to report in these respects.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Thomas Brown Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 24 May 2018 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2018 69
