166 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report to the members of Capita plc Independent auditors report to the members of Capita plc 1.
Our opinion is unmodified Overview We have audited the financial statements of Capita plc the Materiality: Group 8m 2017: 12m Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 which financial comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated 3.8% 2017: 4.8% of normalised Group statements as a statement of comprehensive income, consolidated balance profit before tax whole sheet, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated cash flow statement, company balance sheet, Coverage 82% 2017: 82% of total Group company statement of changes in equity, and the related revenue notes, including the accounting policies in note 2 to the 84% 2017: 85% of total profits and Group financial statements and note 1 to the Parent losses before tax Company financial statements.
84% 2017: 78% of total Group assets In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Revenue and profit the Group financial statements have been properly recognition prepared in accordance with International Financial Impairment of intangible Reporting Standards as adopted by the European assets and goodwill Union: the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting Items excluded from adjusted standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure profit Recurring risks for Framework: and the Group the financial statements have been prepared in Capitalisation and accordance with the requirements of the Companies recoverability of contract Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial assets statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Provisions and contingent Basis for opinion liabilities We conducted our audit in accordance with International Pensions obligations Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that Recurring risk for Going concern the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and the Group and the appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is Parent Company consistent with our report to the Audit & Risk Committee.
We were first appointed as auditor by the Directors on 18 Recurring risks for Recoverability of Parent August 2010.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement the Parent Companys investment in, and is for the 9 financial years ended 31 December 2018.
We Company amounts due from, its have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we subsidiaries remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
166 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 167 Independent auditors report to the members of Capita plc 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Revenue and profit Accounting treatment Our procedures included: recognition Professional standards require us to make a Tests of detail: Reported Group revenue rebuttable presumption that the fraud risk from We obtained and inspected a sample of the of 3,918.4 million revenue is a significant risk.
contractual agreements to understand the 2017: 4,234.6 million.
The incentive pressures on management to achieve contract terms and conditions that underpin the bonus targets and or market consensus increase the revenue and the profit recognition assumptions Refer note 2 e, and risk of fraudulent revenue and profit recognition.
and to identify conditions under which variable Audit and Risk revenue can arise.
Committee report pages Subjective estimate 71-79.
Where contract negotiations are ongoing in relation to variable consideration we discussed Following the adoption of IFRS15 the significant risk the current status with those involved in the on long-term contracts relates to revenue recognised negotiations and by reference to the associated from variations or scope changes, where significant signed contract or variations amendment.
judgment is required to be exercised by the Board.
We considered the assumptions within the There is a risk that revenue may be recognised even business plans and lifetime assessments, though it is not probable i. e. not more likely than checking that onerous contracts had been not that consideration will be collected, which could recognised appropriately, particularly on contracts be due to uncertainties over contractual terms and that have had a poor performance in the current ongoing negotiations with customers.
year and those contracts that are in a preFor long-term contracts, the contractual inflection phase of transformation.
arrangements can be complex with regard to variable In determining whether onerous contract consideration and service performance measures.
provisions should be recorded, we assessed This can involve significant judgments that may contract profitability forecasts by analysing impact the recognition of revenue and contract historic performance relative to contractual profits including, among others, those over: commitments over its full term.
This included the interpretation of contract terms concerning critically assessing the assumptions over future future obligations: costs including projected savings and the actions the allocation of revenue to performance required to achieve these by comparison to obligations: historical cost savings achieved on similar the combining of performance obligations where projects.
This assessment covered a sample of the services are inter related: and contracts including those identified by the Board the consideration of onerous contract conditions as being high risk, and comprising the major and associated loss provisions.
For contracts that are in the pre-inflection stage, where significant variable consideration had been there are typically increased risks as the recognised, we obtained and inspected the transformation activities are still to be completed.
contractual agreements to understand the The execution risk associated with successful contract terms and conditions that underpin the transformation requires judgment to be applied revenue recognition assumptions concerning costs to complete and the overall where relevant we also inspected estimation of profit over the lifetime of the contract.
correspondence with customers or other There is a risk that such matters are not fully supporting documentation in relation to the identified resulting in increased profits being variations or scope: and recognised or the lack of consideration of contract we challenged whether the judgments made by loss provisions.
the Board are appropriate based on the underlying The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk contractual terms and evidence obtained.
assessment, we determined that revenue recognised from long-term contracts has a high Assessing transparency: we considered the degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential disclosures in the financial statements to check that range of reasonable outcomes greater than our these were comprehensive and provided sufficient materiality for the financial statements as a whole, detail of the revenue recognition policies and of the and possibly many times that amount.
Disclosure quality Our findings: We found the amounts of revenue and profit recognised to be acceptable 2017: There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not acceptable.
sufficient to explain revenue recognition accounting policies and the key judgments applied.
168 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc The risk Our response Impairment of Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: Intangible Assets and We consider the carrying value of intangible assets Comparing valuations: we compared the total The risk Our response Goodwill and goodwill and the risk over potential impairment amount of discounted cash flows as per the The G Impair roup r ment ec of or ds t Fo o be a recas stigni bas fic ed ant val audi uat t r io is n k because of the inherent Our c pr alcoc ula etdur ions e s to inc the G lude roup d: s market capitalisation goodw Intangible ill of A 1, ss259.
ets a 0 nd uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting and assessed the rationale for the difference at We consider the carrying value of intangible assets Comparing valuations: we compared the total mi Goodw llion 2017: ill 1,367.9 future cash flows, which are the basis of the the year end with the support of our own internal and goodwill and the risk over potential impairment amount of discounted cash flows as per the million and other assessment of recoverability.
The Group records to be a significant audit risk because of the inherent calculations to the Groups market capitalisation intangible assets 328.7 goodwill of 1,259.0 uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting and assessed the rationale for the difference at million 2017: 444.2 The introduction of the new policies under IFRS15 Control operation: we tested the principles and million 2017: 1,367.9 future cash flows, which are the basis of the the year end with the support of our own internal million see notes 14 & led to a separation of revenue recognition from cash integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow million and other assessment of recoverability.
15. receipts, and adjustments are required to ensure that model.
intangible assets 328.7 the future forecasts used in the impairment million 2017: 444.2 The introduction of the new policies under IFRS15 Control operation: we tested the principles and Refer the Audit and Risk assessment approximate to future cash flows.
Tests of detail: we compared the cash flows million see notes 14 & led to a separation of revenue recognition from cash integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow Committee report on used in the impairment model to the output of 15. receipts, and adjustments are required to ensure that model.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk the Groups budgeting process and against the the future forecasts used in the impairment assessment, we determined that the recoverable understanding we obtained about the business Refer the Audit and Risk assessment approximate to future cash flows.
Tests of detail: we compared the cash flows amount of goodwill and intangible assets has a high areas through our audit, and assessed if these Committee report on used in the impairment model to the output of degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential cash flows were reasonable.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk the Groups budgeting process and against the range of reasonable outcomes greater than our assessment, we determined that the recoverable understanding we obtained about the business materiality for the financial statements as a whole, This included an assessment over any amount of goodwill and intangible assets has a high areas through our audit, and assessed if these and possibly many times that amount.
The financial adjustments made to ensure that the future degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential cash flows were reasonable.
statements note 15 disclose the sensitivity forecasts approximated to cash flows.
range of reasonable outcomes greater than our estimated by the Group.
materiality for the financial statements as a whole, This included an assessment over any Historical comparison: we assessed the and possibly many times that amount.
The financial adjustments made to ensure that the future Disclosure quality historical accuracy of the forecasts used in the statements note 15 disclose the sensitivity forecasts approximated to cash flows.
Groups impairment model by considering actual Ther estima e itsed by a risk t t he G hat t rhe oup.
disclosures presented are not performance against prior year budgets, and sufficient to explain the key assumptions that drive Historical comparison: we assessed the considering any relevant Group internal audit t D he iscvlos alue i ure n qua use c lita ylc ulations, and the key sensitivities historical accuracy of the forecasts used in the reports over this process.
that the Board has considered.
Groups impairment model by considering actual There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not performance against prior year budgets, and Benchmarking assumptions: we used external sufficient to explain the key assumptions that drive In addition there is a risk that the disclosures do not considering any relevant Group internal audit data and our own internal valuation specialists to the value in use calculations, and the key sensitivities adequately explain the events and circumstances reports over this process.
evaluate the key inputs and assumptions for that the Board has considered.
that led to the impairment charge recorded in 2018. growth and discount rates.
Benchmarking assumptions: we used external In addition there is a risk that the disclosures do not During the year there has been a change in the CGU data and our own internal valuation specialists to Sensitivity analysis: we performed sensitivity adequately explain the events and circumstances structure, which requires explanation in the evaluate the key inputs and assumptions for and break-even analyses for the key inputs and that led to the impairment charge recorded in 2018. disclosures.
assumptions, and identified those cashgenerating units we consider most sensitive to During the year there has been a change in the CGU Sensitivity analysis: we performed sensitivity impairment.
structure, which requires explanation in the and break-even analyses for the key inputs and disclosures.
assumptions, and identified those cashAssessing transparency: we evaluated the generating units we consider most sensitive to adequacy of the disclosures related to the impairment.
estimation uncertainty, judgments made and assumptions over the recoverability of intangible Assessing transparency: we evaluated the assets and goodwill, in particular checking that adequacy of the disclosures related to the the sensitivity disclosures provided sufficient estimation uncertainty, judgments made and detail.
We also assessed whether the assumptions over the recoverability of intangible disclosures adequately explained the events and assets and goodwill, in particular checking that circumstances that led to the impairment charge the sensitivity disclosures provided sufficient in 2018. detail.
We also assessed whether the disclosures adequately explained the events and Our findings: We found the amounts of intangible circumstances that led to the impairment charge assets and goodwill recognised as at 31 December in 2018.
Our findings: We found the amounts of intangible assets and goodwill recognised as at 31 December 2018 to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
168 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 169 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc The risk Our response Items excluded from Presentation appropriateness Our procedures included: adjusted profit The Group separately presents adjusted operating Assessing principles: The risk Our response Refer note 3 that details profit and adjusted profit before tax as a note to the We communicated our consideration on the iIt tems ems ex exccluded f luded rfom rom c Pr ons ese ol nt ida at ted i ion a nc ppr ome opr stia attement eness and in note 3.
The Our cl pr assi ocfe icat dur ioe ns inc of itlude ems d: excl uded from adjusted a adj djus ustt ed pr ed pr of of itit and the Companys financial highlights and commentary profit to the Audit and Risk Committee to inform The Group separately presents adjusted operating Assessing principles: Audit and Risk refers to adjusted measures as well as those the debate on the Boards assessment of the Refer note 3 that details profit and adjusted profit before tax as a note to the We communicated our consideration on the Committee report on derived on an adopted IFRS basis.
The reasoning policy decision to present adjusted profit items excluded from consolidated income statement and in note 3.
The classification of items excluded from adjusted pages 71-79. behind this presentation is set out in notes to the measures.
adjusted profit and the Companys financial highlights and commentary profit to the Audit and Risk Committee to inform financial statements.
We examined the presentation of adjusted profit Audit and Risk refers to adjusted measures as well as those the debate on the Boards assessment of the measures in the front half of the annual report Committee report on derived on an adopted IFRS basis.
The reasoning policy decision to present adjusted profit Items to be excluded from adjusted profit are not and consider this against applicable guidelines pages 71-79. behind this presentation is set out in notes to the measures.
defined by IFRSs and therefore judgment is required including the FRC publications on the financial statements.
We examined the presentation of adjusted profit by the Directors to identify such items and to presentation of alternative performance measures in the front half of the annual report maintain the comparability of results with previous measures.
Items to be excluded from adjusted profit are not and consider this against applicable guidelines years and in accordance with the Groups accounting defined by IFRSs and therefore judgment is required including the FRC publications on the policy.
As such there is a risk of management bias.
Assessing balance: by the Directors to identify such items and to presentation of alternative performance Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of We considered whether there are any items maintain the comparability of results with previous measures.
items excluded from adjusted profit may distort the included in the adjusted profit measures that it years and in accordance with the Groups accounting readers view of the financial result in the year.
would be more appropriate to exclude from these policy.
Assessing balance: measures and vice versa.
Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of We considered whether there are any items Disclosure quality We also assessed whether there was sufficient items excluded from adjusted profit may distort the included in the adjusted profit measures that it balance between credit and debit items that are readers view of the financial result in the year.
would be more appropriate to exclude from these During the year the company has simplified the so separately presented.
presentation of the consolidated income statement We tested on a sample basis items recorded as Disclosure quality We also assessed whether there was sufficient and reduced the number of adjusted profit measures.
adjustments to source documentation to assess balance between credit and debit items that are The disclosures need to include sufficient the appropriateness of classification.
During the year the company has simplified the so separately presented.
explanation of the items adjusted to ensure these are As part of this consideration, we assessed the presentation of the consolidated income statement We tested on a sample basis items recorded as transparent and understandable.
consistency of application of the Groups and reduced the number of adjusted profit measures.
adjustments to source documentation to assess accounting policy for the classification of items The disclosures need to include sufficient the appropriateness of classification.
excluded from adjusted profit year-on-year.
explanation of the items adjusted to ensure these are As part of this consideration, we assessed the transparent and understandable.
consistency of application of the Groups Assessing transparency: accounting policy for the classification of items We assessed whether the basis of the adjusted excluded from adjusted profit year-on-year.
financial information is clearly and accurately described and consistently applied and that all Assessing transparency: alternative performance measures, together We assessed whether the basis of the adjusted with reconciliations to the adopted IFRS position, financial information is clearly and accurately are shown with sufficient prominence in the described and consistently applied and that all annual report.
alternative performance measures, together with reconciliations to the adopted IFRS position, Our findings: We found the amounts presented for are shown with sufficient prominence in the adjusted profit to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Our findings: We found the amounts presented for adjusted profit to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
170 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc The risk Our response Capitalisation and Accounting application Our procedures included: recoverability of IFRS15 requires that costs incurred on a contract, or Tests of detail: we tested on a sample basis the The risk Our response contract assets an anticipated contract that generate or enhance the costs capitalised in 2018 as contract fulfilment The adoption of IFRS15 resources of an entity to deliver the contract should assets by reference to the criteria set out in the Impairment of Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: has led to the be capitalised and amortised over the expected life Groups accounting policy.
For each of the assets Intangible Assets and We consider the carrying value of intangible assets Comparing valuations: we compared the total recognition of contract of the contract.
sampled we obtained third party support, or for Goodwill and goodwill and the risk over potential impairment amount of discounted cash flows as per the fulfilment assets see internally generated time, we obtained the The Group records to be a significant audit risk because of the inherent calculations to the Groups market capitalisation note 17.
Subjective estimate relevant costing rates and records, to support the goodwill of 1,259.0 uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting and assessed the rationale for the difference at Judgment is required in applying the accounting basis of capitalisation.
million 2017: 1,367.9 future cash flows, which are the basis of the the year end with the support of our own internal Refer notes 2 e & 17, policy that Capita has introduced to assess whether million and other assessment of recoverability.
and Audit and Risk the costs incurred will enhance the future economic Sensitivity analysis: where a contract has intangible assets 328.7 Committee report pages benefits to the Company.
performed below budget, we assessed whether million 2017: 444.2 The introduction of the new policies under IFRS15 Control operation: we tested the principles and 71-79.
Where a contract is not performing as expected the there was uncertainty in regard to the million see notes 14 & led to a separation of revenue recognition from cash integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow costs capitalised may not be recoverable and an recoverability of the contract fulfilment asset 15. receipts, and adjustments are required to ensure that model.
impairment of the asset may need to be recorded.
the future forecasts used in the impairment Contract fulfilment assets are required to be Refer the Audit and Risk assessment approximate to future cash flows.
Tests of detail: we compared the cash flows amortised over the expected life of the contract and Tests of detail: we considered on a sample Committee report on used in the impairment model to the output of this requires an estimate of any likely contract basis the useful economic lives applied to the pages 71-79.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk the Groups budgeting process and against the extensions.
contract fulfilment assets and assessed the assessment, we determined that the recoverable understanding we obtained about the business expected contract life by reference to the amount of goodwill and intangible assets has a high areas through our audit, and assessed if these The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk contract terms or where appropriate any agreed degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential cash flows were reasonable.
assessment, we determined that the recoverable extensions to the original contract.
range of reasonable outcomes greater than our amount of contract assets has a high degree of materiality for the financial statements as a whole, This included an assessment over any estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of Assessing transparency: we considered the and possibly many times that amount.
The financial adjustments made to ensure that the future reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for disclosures in the financial statements to assess statements note 15 disclose the sensitivity forecasts approximated to cash flows.
the financial statements as a whole.
that these provided sufficient detail of the criteria estimated by the Group.
used to assess whether expense items should be Historical comparison: we assessed the Disclosure quality recorded as a contract asset.
Disclosure quality historical accuracy of the forecasts used in the There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not Groups impairment model by considering actual sufficient to explain the capitalisation criteria that are Our findings: We found the amounts of contract There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not performance against prior year budgets, and used to assess whether items of expense should be assets recognised to be acceptable 2017: sufficient to explain the key assumptions that drive considering any relevant Group internal audit recorded as a contract asset.
the value in use calculations, and the key sensitivities reports over this process.
Benchmarking assumptions: we used external In addition there is a risk that the disclosures do not data and our own internal valuation specialists to adequately explain the events and circumstances evaluate the key inputs and assumptions for that led to the impairment charge recorded in 2018. growth and discount rates.
During the year there has been a change in the CGU Sensitivity analysis: we performed sensitivity structure, which requires explanation in the and break-even analyses for the key inputs and disclosures.
assumptions, and identified those cashgenerating units we consider most sensitive to impairment.
Assessing transparency: we evaluated the adequacy of the disclosures related to the estimation uncertainty, judgments made and assumptions over the recoverability of intangible assets and goodwill, in particular checking that the sensitivity disclosures provided sufficient detail.
We also assessed whether the disclosures adequately explained the events and circumstances that led to the impairment charge in 2018.
170 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 171 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc The risk Our response Provisions and Subjective estimates Our procedures included: Contingent Liabilities Significant judgment is required to assess whether Personnel interviews: We enquired of the See note 25 for details actual or potential claims, litigation or fines arising Directors and inspected board minutes for actual of the provisions totalling from regulatory oversight, or from contractual and potential claims arising in the year based on 116.2 million as at 31 arrangements with customers and suppliers, should any external communications with the Group as December 2018 2017: be recognised as provisions within the financial noted in any Board discussions, and assessed 212.6 million and note statements or warrant disclosing as contingent whether provisions are required for these claims.
Our enquiries are included as standard questions the contingent liabilities in all our meetings with those responsible for identified.
The determination and estimation of amounts for preparing the financial statements including the these provisions is inherently judgmental by their divisional Finance Directors, heads of functions at Also refer the Audit and nature and there is a risk that the estimate is Group and corporate level, and the Executive Risk Committee report incorrect and any provision is materially misstated.
Tests of detail: The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk We obtained an understanding and status of assessment, we determined that provisions have a existing claims and litigations via enquiries and high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a examining any relevant correspondence.
This potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than included enquiries of the Directors assessment our materiality for the financial statements as a regarding the likelihood of the existence of whole.
obligations, and the basis used to measure any provisions: Disclosure quality We compared the Directors estimate of the risk Where the impact of possible and present obligations and impact of these claims and litigations to third is not probable or not reliably measurable, and thus party evidence, where available: no provision is recorded, failure to adequately In respect of open matters of claims and disclose the nature of these circumstances within litigations, where appropriate, we had discussions the financial statements may distort the readers with the Groups external legal advisors in respect view as to the potential risks faced by the Group.
of the reasonableness of the estimated liability.
Assessing transparency: we evaluated the adequacy of the Groups provisions and contingent liability disclosures in the financial statements in accordance with accounting standards, and in particular the disclosure of the estimation uncertainty and the quantification of that uncertainty where appropriate.
Our findings: We found the amounts included for provisions to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
We found the disclosures included for provisions and contingent liability to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
Pensions obligations Subjective estimation Our procedures included: See note 32 for details Significant estimates are made in estimating the Assessing the valuers credentials: we of the Group pension Groups defined benefit pension obligations and evaluated the competence and independence of schemes and their small changes in assumptions and estimates used the external actuaries who are engaged by the obligations as at 31 would have a significant effect on this amount.
Group to estimate the pension scheme December 2018.
There is a risk that the assumptions applied are not obligations for the purpose of the financial appropriate in the context of the pension scheme statements.
Also refer to the Audit arrangements.
Methodology choice: we used our internal and Risk Committee actuary specialists to consider and critically report on pages 71-79.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assess the methodologies applied including assessment, we determined that the valuation of benchmarking the key assumptions applied in pension obligations has a high degree of estimation determining the Groups defined benefit uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable obligations, being the discount rate, inflation rate outcomes greater than our materiality for the and mortality life expectancy.
This included a financial statements as a whole, and possibly many comparison of these key assumptions against times that amount.
The financial statements note externally derived data.
32 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
Assessing transparency: we evaluated the Disclosure quality adequacy of the disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the obligations to these There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not assumptions.
sufficient to explain the key assumptions that the Board has adopted for the purpose of valuing the Our findings: We found the amounts included for pension obligations.
pension schemes obligations to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
172 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc The risk Our response Going concern Disclosure quality Our procedures included: Refer to note 2 b and The f The riis na kncial statements explain how the Board has Our response the viability statement formed a judgement that it is appropriate to adopt Our sector experience: Impairment of Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: on page 52 for the the going concern basis of preparation for the group We tested the integrity of the cash flow Intangible Assets and Boards assessment of and parent company.
The going concern assumption projections and considered the appropriateness of We consider the carrying value of intangible assets Comparing valuations: we compared the total Goodwill the appropriateness of and viability assessment is dependent on the key assumptions used in preparing those and goodwill and the risk over potential impairment amount of discounted cash flows as per the the going concern basis successful implementation of the transformation plan projections, with a specific focus on the cost The Group records to be a significant audit risk because of the inherent calculations to the Groups market capitalisation of preparation and the described in the strategic report reduction and revenue growth assumptions.
We goodwill of 1,259.0 uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting and assessed the rationale for the difference at Groups longer-term evaluated these via enquiries with each of the million 2017: 1,367.9 future cash flows, which are the basis of the the year end with the support of our own internal That judgement is based on an evaluation of the viability.
divisional Finance Directors, and other Executives million and other assessment of recoverability.
inherent risks to the Groups and Companys including the Chief Transformation Officer and intangible assets 328.7 business model and how those risks might affect the We have assessed this Chief Growth Officer.
We assessed the million 2017: 444.2 The introduction of the new policies under IFRS15 Control operation: we tested the principles and Groups and Companys financial resources or ability risk as having reduced projections and assumptions by reference to our million see notes 14 & led to a separation of revenue recognition from cash integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow to continue operations, taking into account all compared to prior year knowledge of the business and general market 15. receipts, and adjustments are required to ensure that model.
available information about the future, which covers when there was a conditions and assessed the potential risk of the future forecasts used in the impairment a period of at least a year from the date of approval material uncertainty management bias.
Refer the Audit and Risk assessment approximate to future cash flows.
Tests of detail: we compared the cash flows of the financial statements but is not limited to that related to the planned Committee report on used in the impairment model to the output of period.
rights issue, which Funding assessment: pages 71-79.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk the Groups budgeting process and against the completed during 2018.
We re-performed calculations, for 30 June 2019, The risks most likely to adversely affect the Groups assessment, we determined that the recoverable understanding we obtained about the business 31 December 2019, 30 June 2020 and 31 and Companys available financial resources in the amount of goodwill and intangible assets has a high areas through our audit, and assessed if these December 2020, prepared to test expected future relate to continued execution risk associated degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential cash flows were reasonable.
compliance with the key financial covenant tests with the Groups transformation plan.
These include, range of reasonable outcomes greater than our to test mathematical accuracy.
but are not limited to, the following: materiality for the financial statements as a whole, This included an assessment over any and possibly many times that amount.
The financial adjustments made to ensure that the future An inability to sustain the forecast cost savings We considered the adjustments made in the statements note 15 disclose the sensitivity forecasts approximated to cash flows.
and achieve cost competitiveness: adjusted EBITDA for the covenant calculations, estimated by the Group.
considering the appropriateness compared to the An inability to achieve the growth targets in the Historical comparison: we assessed the loan agreements and historical accepted practice Groups business plan: Disclosure quality historical accuracy of the forecasts used in the with the current lenders.
In addition, we Groups impairment model by considering actual A significant unexpected downturn in There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not inspected the correspondence between the performance against prior year budgets, and performance in one of the groups businesses: sufficient to explain the key assumptions that drive Company and the private placement lenders that considering any relevant Group internal audit and the value in use calculations, and the key sensitivities set out the proposed items to be excluded in the reports over this process.
adjusted EBITDA definition and compared these An increase in attrition and or continuing against the items included in the covenant reduction in new contract wins.
Benchmarking assumptions: we used external In addition there is a risk that the disclosures do not calculations.
data and our own internal valuation specialists to There are also less predictable but realistic second adequately explain the events and circumstances evaluate the key inputs and assumptions for order impacts, such as the impact of Brexit on that led to the impairment charge recorded in 2018.
Sensitivity analysis: growth and discount rates.
We challenged the level of sensitivities applied During the year there has been a change in the CGU including downside scenarios for In the event that one or more of the above risks Sensitivity analysis: we performed sensitivity structure, which requires explanation in the reasonableness based on our knowledge of the were to materialise the Boards assessment of the and break-even analyses for the key inputs and disclosures.
business and markets served, and we evaluated groups ability to continue as a going concern would assumptions, and identified those cashwhether the Directors plans to alleviate the generating units we consider most sensitive to involve significant judgment with respect to the downside risk evident from these scenarios were ability to comply with debt covenants and maintain impairment.
Assessing transparency: we evaluated the The risk for our audit was whether or not those risks We considered managements assessment of the adequacy of the disclosures related to the were such that they amounted to a material potential impacts of Brexit on the Group along estimation uncertainty, judgments made and uncertainty that may have cast significant doubt with their plans to mitigate those risks.
assumptions over the recoverability of intangible about the ability to continue as a going concern.
Had assets and goodwill, in particular checking that they been such, then that fact would have been Assessing transparency: the sensitivity disclosures provided sufficient required to have been disclosed.
We also assessed the completeness and detail.
We also assessed whether the accuracy of the matters covered in the going disclosures adequately explained the events and concern disclosure, including whether they circumstances that led to the impairment charge sufficiently explain the judgements made by the in 2018.
Directors in assessing whether the going concern basis of preparation is appropriate.
Our findings: We found the amounts of intangible assets and goodwill recognised as at 31 December Our findings: we found the going concern disclosure 2018 to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
without any material uncertainty to be acceptable 2017: disclosure with a material uncertainty acceptable.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 173 172 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc The risk Our response Recoverability of the Low risk, high value Our procedures included: Parent Companys The risk Our response The carrying amount of the Parent Companys Tests of detail: we compared the carrying investment in, and investment in, and amounts due from, its amount of the investment, and the amounts due amounts due from, its Items excluded from Presentation appropriateness Our procedures included: subsidiaries represents 22.6% and 43.1% 2017: from subsidiaries, with the relevant subsidiarys subsidiaries adjusted profit 11.
The G 2%r a oup s nd 50. epa 7% rat el of y i pr tses tot ent al s a s as dj et us s tred oper espectia vt el ing y. Assdr es as fting pr statutinc ory iple bals a: nce sheet to identify whether IR nv ef es ert not ment e 3 t caha rryti ng details The r profitec and a overdj abi us litted y ispr not ofi a t bef t a or high r e tax isk a sof a s not igni e t fic o t ant he iW tse c net ommuni assets, c bei ated our ng an a cons pprox ider ima atiton on t ion of ihe ts value 507.9 million misstatement or subject to significant judgment.
minimum recoverable amount, was in excess of items excluded from consolidated income statement and in note 3.
The classification of items excluded from adjusted 2017: 220.2 million, However, due to its materiality in the context of the its carrying amount and assessed whether the adjusted profit and the Companys financial highlights and commentary profit to the Audit and Risk Committee to inform a And udia tmount and Ris s due f k rom P ref arer ent s tC o ompa adjus ny ted fina mea ncia slur ses tat ement as wels l a, tshi ts hos is e s the deba ubsidiart ye on t has hi he B storoa ica rd llys been pr assessof ment it-ma of k t ing.
he s Cubs ommi idia tr tiee r es 969. eport 5m on c der ons ivied deron ed a tn a o be t dopt he a ed rIea FR tS ha ba t ha sisd.
The the gr rea eas tes oni tng policy decision to present adjusted profit 2017: 992.7m.
effect on our overall Parent Company audit.
Our findings: we found the Parent Companys pages 71-79. behind this presentation is set out in notes to the measures.
assessment of the recoverability of the investment in financial statements.
We examined the presentation of adjusted profit Refer to note 1 subs mea idias riur es es to in t be a he f ccrept onta ha ble lf of 2017: the a annua ccept l r abl epor e. t accounting policies and Items to be excluded from adjusted profit are not and consider this against applicable guidelines notes 8-9 financial defined by IFRSs and therefore judgment is required including the FRC publications on the disclosures and Parent by the Directors to identify such items and to presentation of alternative performance Company Balance Sheet maintain the comparability of results with previous measures.
years and in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Assessing balance: Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of We considered whether there are any items We identified the IFRS 15 Opening Balance Restatement as a key audit matter for the prior year audit.
We continue to perform items excluded from adjusted profit may distort the included in the adjusted profit measures that it procedures over the application of IFRS 15.
However, as it is no longer the first year of adoption of IFRS 15, we have not assessed readers view of the financial result in the year.
would be more appropriate to exclude from these the restatement as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not separately identified in our measures and vice versa.
Disclosure quality We also assessed whether there was sufficient balance between credit and debit items that are During the year the company has simplified the so separately presented.
presentation of the consolidated income statement We tested on a sample basis items recorded as and reduced the number of adjusted profit measures.
adjustments to source documentation to assess The disclosures need to include sufficient the appropriateness of classification.
consistency of application of the Groups accounting policy for the classification of items excluded from adjusted profit year-on-year.
Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the basis of the adjusted financial information is clearly and accurately described and consistently applied and that all alternative performance measures, together with reconciliations to the adopted IFRS position, are shown with sufficient prominence in the annual report.
174 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc 3.
Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at 8.0 million, determined with reference to a benchmark of normalised Group profit before tax of 212.2 million, of which it represents 3.8%.
The risk Our response In order to set this benchmark we consider the nature of items excluded in determining adjusted profit before tax.
Group reported profit Impairment of Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: before tax from continuing operations is 272.6 million.
We normalised by adding back certain specific items including the profit on Intangible Assets and business exits 309.7 million note 3 : impairment charges against goodwill and acquired intangibles 95.5 million note 3 : claims We consider the carrying value of intangible assets Comparing valuations: we compared the total Goodwill and litigation provisions release 1.8 million note 3 : non-trading business exit disposal expense 29.7 million note 3 : private and goodwill and the risk over potential impairment amount of discounted cash flows as per the placement loan notes prepayments costs - 15.9 million note 9 : significant restructuring expense 110.0 million note 3.
Total The Group records to be a significant audit risk because of the inherent calculations to the Groups market capitalisation adjustments to reported profit before tax amount to 60.4 million resulting in a normalised Group profit before tax for materiality goodwill of 1,259.0 uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting and assessed the rationale for the difference at purposes of 212.2 million.
million 2017: 1,367.9 future cash flows, which are the basis of the the year end with the support of our own internal million and other assessment of recoverability.
Materiality for the prior year was set at 12.0 million determined with reference to a benchmark of normalised Group profit before tax of intangible assets 328.7 251.5 million, of which it represented 4.8%.
million 2017: 444.2 The introduction of the new policies under IFRS15 Control operation: we tested the principles and million see notes 14 & led to a separation of revenue recognition from cash integrity of the Groups discounted cash flow In order to set that benchmark we considered the nature of items excluded in determining adjusted profit before tax.
Group originally 15. receipts, and adjustments are required to ensure that model.
reported loss before tax was 513.1 million.
We normalised by adding back certain specific items including the non-trading business exit the future forecasts used in the impairment disposal expense 13.7 million note 3 : losses on business disposals 30.6 million note 3 : impairments of other non-current assets Refer the Audit and Risk assessment approximate to future cash flows.
Tests of detail: we compared the cash flows 63.5 million note 3 : impairments of life and pension assets 61.2 million note 3 : impairment charges against goodwill and Committee report on used in the impairment model to the output of acquired intangibles 565.6 million note 14 : claims and litigation provisions expense 30.0 million note 3.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk the Groups budgeting process and against the reported profit before tax amount to 764.6 million resulting in a normalised Group profit before tax for materiality purposes of 251.5 assessment, we determined that the recoverable understanding we obtained about the business million.
amount of goodwill and intangible assets has a high areas through our audit, and assessed if these degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential cash flows were reasonable.
Materiality for the parent company financial statements as a whole was set at 5.2 million 2017: 7.8 million, by reference to range of reasonable outcomes greater than our component materiality.
This is lower than the materiality we would otherwise have determined by reference to total assets, and materiality for the financial statements as a whole, This included an assessment over any represents 0.2% of the Company's total assets 2017: 0.7%.
and possibly many times that amount.
The financial adjustments made to ensure that the future statements note 15 disclose the sensitivity forecasts approximated to cash flows.
We report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified misstatements with a profit impact in excess of 0.4 estimated by the Group.
million 2017: 0.6 million, and reclassification misstatements greater than 1m 2017: 0.6 million, in addition to other identified Historical comparison: we assessed the misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Disclosure quality historical accuracy of the forecasts used in the Groups impairment model by considering actual There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by component auditors at 28 2017: 29 key reporting components in the United performance against prior year budgets, and sufficient to explain the key assumptions that drive Kingdom, Switzerland, Germany, and by the Group audit team over 2 key components in the United Kingdom, including the parent considering any relevant Group internal audit company 2017: in the United K the ingdom, value in S us w e c itzer alc la ul nd, ati G ons er, ma and t ny, he Irel ka ey nd a sens nd G itiv uer ities ns ey and by the Group audit team over 2 key reports over this process.
components in the United Kit ngdom, hat the iB nc oa ludi rd ha ng t s c he ons pairder ented.
Benchmarking assumptions: we used external In addition there is a risk that the disclosures do not The Group audit team, with the assistance of the component auditors where appropriate, performed procedures on the items excluded data and our own internal valuation specialists to from normalised Group profit a dequa before t tel ay x ex.
Thes plain t e pr he oc ev edur ents es a nd cov cer irc ed ums appr tanc oxes ima tely 82.3% of total Group revenue 2017: 81.5% : 84.1% evaluate the key inputs and assumptions for of the total profits and losses t ha tha t t led t mao t fide up G he impa roup pr irment ofi t c bef harge ore t rec ax or ded i 2017: n 2018.
For growth and discount rates.
the remaining components, we performed analysis at an aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no During the year there has been a change in the CGU significant risks of material misstatement within these.
Sensitivity analysis: we performed sensitivity structure, which requires explanation in the and break-even analyses for the key inputs and The Group operates a shared s discl erv oisu ce re cent s. re in London, the outputs of which are included in the financial information of the components assumptions, and identified those cashit services.
The service centre is subject to risk-focused audit procedures, predominantly the testing of transaction processing and generating units we consider most sensitive to review controls.
Additional procedures are performed at certain reporting components to address the audit risks not covered by the impairment.
work performed over the shared service centre.
Assessing transparency: we evaluated the The Group audit team approved the component materiality levels, which ranged from 0.4 million to 5.2 million 2017: 0.1 million to adequacy of the disclosures related to the 7.8 million, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group across the components.
estimation uncertainty, judgments made and assumptions over the recoverability of intangible Detailed audit instructions were sent to the component auditors.
These instructions covered the significant audit areas that should be assets and goodwill, in particular checking that covered by these audits which included the relevant risks of material misstatement detailed above and set out the information required the sensitivity disclosures provided sufficient to be reported back to the Group audit team.
Telephone conference meetings were held with component auditors throughout the audit.
We also assessed whether the At these meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by the Group disclosures adequately explained the events and team was then performed by the component auditor.
circumstances that led to the impairment charge in 2018.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 175 174 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc 4.
We have nothing to report on going concern The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups financial position means that this is realistic.
They The ha ris five a k lso concluded that there are no material uncerO taur int r ies es pons that c eould have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements Items excluded from Presentation appropriateness Our procedures included: the going concern period.
adjusted profit The Group separately presents adjusted operating Assessing principles: Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty Refer note 3 that details profit and adjusted profit before tax as a note to the We communicated our consideration on the related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or items excluded from consolidated income statement and in note 3.
The classification of items excluded from adjusted conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the adjusted profit and the Companys financial highlights and commentary profit to the Audit and Risk Committee to inform time they were made, the absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditor's report is not a guarantee that the Audit and Risk refers to adjusted measures as well as those the debate on the Boards assessment of the Group and the Company will continue in operation.
Committee report on derived on an adopted IFRS basis.
The reasoning policy decision to present adjusted profit pages 71-79. behind this presentation is set out in notes to the measures.
We identified going concern as a key audit matter see section 2 of this report.
Based on the work described in our response to financial statements.
We examined the presentation of adjusted profit that key audit matter, we are required to report to you if: measures in the front half of the annual report Items to be excluded from adjusted profit are not and consider this against applicable guidelines we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in Note 2 b to the financial defined by IFRSs and therefore judgment is required including the FRC publications on the statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant by the Directors to identify such items and to presentation of alternative performance doubt over the Group and Companys use of that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of maintain the comparability of results with previous measures.
the financial statements : or years and in accordance with the Groups accounting the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 65 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
Assessing balance: Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of We considered whether there are any items We have nothing to report in these respects.
items excluded from adjusted profit may distort the included in the adjusted profit measures that it readers view of the financial result in the year.
would be more appropriate to exclude from these measures and vice versa.
We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report Disclosure quality We also assessed whether there was sufficient balance between credit and debit items that are During the year the company has simplified the so separately presented.
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial statements.
presentation of the consolidated income statement We tested on a sample basis items recorded as Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit and reduced the number of adjusted profit measures.
adjustments to source documentation to assess opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
The disclosures need to include sufficient the appropriateness of classification.
explanation of the items adjusted to ensure these are As part of this consideration, we assessed the Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements audit transparent and understandable.
consistency of application of the Groups work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge.
accounting policy for the classification of items Based solely on that work we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
Strategic report and Directors report Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the basis of the adjusted Based solely on our work on the other information: financial information is clearly and accurately we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors report: described and consistently applied and that all in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and alternative performance measures, together in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. with reconciliations to the adopted IFRS position, are shown with sufficient prominence in the Directors remuneration report annual report.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation within the viability statement page 52 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
176 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys longer-term viability.
The risk Our response Corporate governance disclosures Impairment of Forecast based valuation Our procedures included: We are required to report to you if: Intangible Assets and we have identified materia W l ie nc cons onsiis der tenc the iesc bet arry w ing v een t alhe k ue of now inta ledge w ngible a e ss aet cqui s red dur C ing om our pa f ring v inanca ialua l stt aions tement : we c s audi ompa t and red the total Goodwill the Directors statement ta ha nd t tgoodw hey cons ill a ider nd tthe hatr t ishe a k ovnnua er pot l rent epor ialt i a mpa nd fiirna ment ncia l statement amount s ta of ken a diss c ount a whol ed c e a is s f h afilrow, ba sl a anc s per ed the The G and under roup r sec tanda ords bl e and pr to ovbe a ides s tihe i gnif nf icor ant ma audi tion t r nec isk bec essaa rus y fe of or s t ha he rehol inher der ent s t o asses cs a lc the ulat G ions roup to s pos the G itiron oup and s market capitalisation goodw perforima ll of nc 1, e, bus 259. i0 ness model uncer at nd aint st yr i anv tegy olv:ed or in forecasting and discounting and assessed the rationale for the difference at mi the s llion ec 2017: tion of 1, the a 367. nnua 9 l rfepor uture c t des asc h rifbi low ng st, he w whicor h k a rof e t the ba he Audi sist of Commi the ttee does not the y appr ea opr r end iatelw y a itddr h the s ess uppor matter t of s our own internal mi communi llion and ca ot ted by her us to the A asse udi ssm t C eommi nt of r te tee.
intangible assets 328.7 Wmi e alr lie on requi 2017: red 444. to repor 2 t to y The i ou ifnt the roduc Cortpor ion aof te G the new overna nc pol e S icies tatunder ement I does FRS15 not proper Clont y dis rol ope close ar a depa tionr:t w ure f e tr es om t ted t he el he pr evien nciples and prov millio isions n of s t ee not he UK es C 14 orpor & atle ed t Gov o a er s na epa ncre C ation of ode s rpec evenue ified by rec t ogni he Li tis on ting from c Rules as f h or our riev ntiegr ewi.
t y of the Groups discounted cash flow 15. receipts, and adjustments are required to ensure that model.
We have nothing to report in t the f hese r utur es e f pec ortec s. a sts used in the impairment Refer the Audit and Risk assessment approximate to future cash flows.
Tests of detail: we compared the cash flows Committee report on used in the impairment model to the output of 6.
We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required to report by pages 71-79.
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk the Groups budgeting process and against the exception assessment, we determined that the recoverable understanding we obtained about the business amount of goodwill and intangible assets has a high areas through our audit, and assessed if these Under the Companies Act 2006, degr w ee e a of re es requi tima red tion to r unc epor erta t t int o y y, ou wit ifh a, in pot ourent opi ia ni l on: cash flows were reasonable.
adequate accounting recor rds ange of have rnot eas been onable out kept by comes the P gr ar ea ent ter C tompa han our ny, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not ma vtier sitied ality by for us t:he or financial statements as a whole, This included an assessment over any the Parent Company financ and pos ial statement sibly ma s ny and times the pa tha rt tof a t mount he Dir.
ec The torf sina Rnc emuner ial ation adj Rus epor tment t to be a s maudi fide tted a o ens re ur not e t i ha n t the future agreement with the account stait ng r ement ecor sds not and r e 15 et di urns scl:os ore t he sensitivity forecasts approximated to cash flows.
certain disclosures of Direc es tor tima s rtemuner ed by the G ation roup.
specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Historical comparison: we assessed the Disclosure quality historical accuracy of the forecasts used in the We have nothing to report in these respects.
Groups impairment model by considering actual There is a risk that the disclosures presented are not performance against prior year budgets, and sufficient to explain the key assumptions that drive considering any relevant Group internal audit the value in use calculations, and the key sensitivities reports over this process.
Respective responsibilities Benchmarking assumptions: we used external In addition there is a risk that the disclosures do not data and our own internal valuation specialists to Directors responsibilities adequately explain the events and circumstances evaluate the key inputs and assumptions for that led to the impairment charge recorded in 2018.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 68, the Directors are responsgr iblow e fo th a r: th nd e di pre scp ount arati r oa ntes of.
th e financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary to During the year there has been a change in the CGU enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement Sens, itw ivhet ity a her naly du se is:to we fra per udfor or med s error: ensitivity structure, which requires explanation in the assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclo and br sing, ea askaev ppl en a icabl na e, lym ses atte for rs tre he k late ey d ito nputs and disclosures.
going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend assto umpt liqui ions dat, e ath nd eiG dent roup ified or tth hos e P e c arent ashgenerating units we consider most sensitive to Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities Assessing transparency: we evaluated the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material adequacy of the disclosures related to the misstatement, whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditors report.
estimation uncertainty, judgments made and Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs assumptions over the recoverability of intangible UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or assets and goodwill, in particular checking that error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic the sensitivity disclosures provided sufficient decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We also assessed whether the disclosures adequately explained the events and A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
Irregularities ability to detect Our findings: We found the amounts of intangible We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial assets and goodwill recognised as at 31 December statements from our general commercial and sector experience and through discussion with the directors and other 2018 to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the groups regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included communication from the group to component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
176 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 177 Independent auditors report continued to the members of Capita plc Firstly, the group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation, taxation legislation, and pension regulation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
The risk Our response Secondly, the group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation Items excluded from Presentation appropriateness Our procedures included: or the loss of the groups licence to operate.
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: adjusted profit The Group separately presents adjusted operating Assessing principles: anti-bribery and corruption, data protection, employment law, health and safety, and regulatory capital and liquidity recognising Refer note 3 that details profit and adjusted profit before tax as a note to the We communicated our consideration on the the broad range of business process outsourcing services offered by the Group that include financial and regulated activities in items excluded from consolidated income statement and in note 3.
The classification of items excluded from adjusted the Specialist Services, People Solutions and Customer Management divisions, and the Governmental nature of many of the adjusted profit and the Companys financial highlights and commentary profit to the Audit and Risk Committee to inform groups customers in the Government Services division.
Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify nonAudit and Risk refers to adjusted measures as well as those the debate on the Boards assessment of the compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory Committee report on derived on an adopted IFRS basis.
The reasoning policy decision to present adjusted profit and legal correspondence, if any.
Through these procedures, we became aware of actual or suspected non-compliance and pages 71-79. behind this presentation is set out in notes to the measures.
considered the effect as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
The identified actual or suspected financial statements.
We examined the presentation of adjusted profit non-compliance was not sufficiently significant to our audit to result in our response being identified as a key audit matter.
measures in the front half of the annual report Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material Items to be excluded from adjusted profit are not and consider this against applicable guidelines misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with defined by IFRSs and therefore judgment is required including the FRC publications on the auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is from the by the Directors to identify such items and to presentation of alternative performance events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by maintain the comparability of results with previous measures.
auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of years and in accordance with the Groups accounting irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal policy.
We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all Failure to disclose clearly the nature and impact of We considered whether there are any items laws and regulations.
Disclosure quality We also assessed whether there was sufficient 8.
The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities balance between credit and debit items that are During the year the company has simplified the so separately presented.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies presentation of the consolidated income statement We tested on a sample basis items recorded as Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are and reduced the number of adjusted profit measures.
adjustments to source documentation to assess required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not The disclosures need to include sufficient the appropriateness of classification.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit explanation of the items adjusted to ensure these are As part of this consideration, we assessed the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Assessing transparency: We assessed whether the basis of the adjusted financial information is clearly and accurately described and consistently applied and that all alternative performance measures, together Robert J Brent Senior Statutory Auditor with reconciliations to the adopted IFRS position, for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor are shown with sufficient prominence in the Chartered Accountants annual report.
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL th 13 March 2019 Our findings: We found the amounts presented for adjusted profit to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
