Strategic Report Governance Financials Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Card Factory plc 1.
OUR OPINION IS UNMODIFIED We have audited the financial statements of Card Factory plc the Company for the year ended 31 January 2018 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated statement of financial position, Consolidated statement of changes in equity, Consolidated cash flow statement, Parent Company balance sheet, Parent Company statement of changes in equity, Parent Company cash flow statement, and the related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31January 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our report to the audit committee.
We were appointed as auditor by the Companys members on 25 May 2017.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 7 financial years ended 31 January 2018.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
Overview Materiality: 4.0m 2017:4.0m Group financial statements as a whole 5.0% 2017: 5.0% of Group profit before tax excluding non-underlying items.
Coverage 100% 2017:100% of Group profit before tax Risks of material misstatement vs 2017 tu Recurring risks Existence and accuracy of the stock counts for store inventory and accuracy of the costing calculations for all inventory.
tu Foreign exchange hedge accounting.
tu Recoverability of parent Company investments in subsidiaries.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Card Factory plc continued 2.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters unchanged from 2017, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
The risk Our response Inventory costing and Physical quantities of store Our procedures included: store inventory stock Count design and attendance: Assessment of the design and quantities Store inventory quantities implementation of the store count procedures through 51.5 million: 2017: 51.4 depend on year end physical attendance at a sample of store inventory counts, including to million counts.
Accordingly, given the inform the extent of test of details: high volume and broad range of Control operation: Evaluated the operating effectiveness of Refer to page 49 Audit inventory held there is a risk the controls over the process for reviewing store count and Risk Committee that quantities of store results, which compares the results of the store counts to the Report, page 89 inventory could be incorrectly expected stock levels for each store on a line by line basis.
Controls over the This includes investigation of significant variances.
The test page 95 financial year end counts of store informs the extent of tests of details: disclosures.
inventory are themselves manual in nature.
Tests of details: Selected a sample of stock lines to assess whether the counted quantities agree to expected quantities Calculation error according to the system and investigated how any variances Elements of the inventory within our sample had been resolved.
As an adjustment is costing calculations across both made to the gross stock figure to the extent variances exceed store and warehouse stock are managements threshold, we considered the level of this manual in nature.
Given the high threshold in the context of our materiality: volume and broad range on Tests of details: Identified store outliers based on a number inventory held there is a risk of factors such as stock levels per square foot of selling that cost could be incorrectly space.
For these we evaluated the characteristics specific to a recorded.
sample of stores such as their location in relation to other stores, to assess whether this was consistent with the stock levels reported.
We considered the overall value of the stock held in outlier stores in the context of materiality: and Re-performance: For a sample of inventory lines reperformed the standard cost calculations and agreed each input to invoice or other supporting documentation.
Our results: The results of our procedures were satisfactory.
Foreign exchange Accounting treatment Our procedures included: hedge accounting The Group adopts hedge Control operation: Tested the operating effectiveness of the 5 million deficit: 2017: accounting for a high processes and controls over foreign exchange hedging to 2 million surplus proportion of its foreign assess whether effectiveness testing had been performed on currency inventory purchases.
a monthly basis: Refer to page 49 Audit The amount of fair value Tests of details: Assessed the accuracy of managements and Risk Committee movement recorded through hedge effectiveness testing by agreeing the inputs to Report, page 88 other comprehensive income contracts, budgets and valuations: accounting policy and OCI rather than the income pages 100 to 102 statement is determined by Re-performance: Re-performed the calculation of hedge financial disclosures.
effectiveness for all foreign exchange contracts outstanding at the year end: and Hedge accounting is inherently Historical comparisons: Considered the accuracy of historical complex and requires a degree forecast foreign currency purchases to assess the Groups of judgement in determining forecasting reliability.
We also considered the accuracy of the forecast cash flows.
testing performed in the prior year.
If the assumptions made in the Our results: The results of our procedures were satisfactory and effectiveness testing were we found the fair value movement on derivatives recorded inappropriate, the presentation through OCI to be acceptable.
of the fair value movement on the financial instruments in OCI could be incorrect.
74 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials The risk Our response Parent: Recoverability Low risk, high value Our procedures included: of Parent Companys The carrying amount of the Tests of details: Compared the carrying amount of all of the investments in Companys investments, held at investments with the respective subsidiaries net assets values subsidiaries cost, represents 99.8% of the to identify whether the net assets values, being an 316.2 million: Companys total assets.
approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in 2017: 316.2 million excess of the carrying amount.
We do not consider the Tests of details: Compared the carrying amount of Refer to page 108 recoverable amount of these investments in total against the market capitalisation of the accounting policy investments to be at a high risk Group at the year end.
and page 110 financial of significant misstatement, or to disclosures.
be subject to a significant level Assessing subsidiary audits: Considering the results of the of judgement.
However, due to work on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
their materiality in the context of the financial statements as a Our results: We found the Groups assessment of the whole, this is considered to be recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable.
one of the areas which had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy and allocation of resources in planning and completing our audit of the Parent Company.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole has been set at 4m determined by reference to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, normalised to exclude non-underlying items of 7.9m as disclosed in note 3, of which it represents 5.0% 2017: 5.0%.
The materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole has been set at 3.9m determined by reference to a benchmark of total assets, of which it represents 1% 2017: 1%.
We report to the Audit and Risk committee any corrected and uncorrected misstatements exceeding 50,000 in addition to other identified misstatements that warrant reporting on qualitative grounds.
Of the Groups 3 reporting components we subjected all 3 to audit for Group reporting purposes.
These components covered 100% of the total Group revenue 2017: 100%, 100% of the Group profit before taxation 2017: 100% and 100% of total Group assets 2017: 100%.
Our procedures were performed from the Groups support centre in Wakefield and at the component offices in Shipley and Wythenshawe.
Group revenue Group profit before tax Group profit before tax, Group Materiality normalised to exclude 4.0m 2017: 4.0m non-underlying items 4.0m 80.5m 2017: 85.1m Whole financial 100% 100% statements materiality 2017: 100% 2017: 100% 2017: 4.0m 3.5m Range of materiality at 3 100 components 2.5m to 3.5m 100 2017: 2.5m to 3.5m Group profit before non-underlying items and tax Group total assets 50k Misstatements reported to Group profit before tax the audit committee normalised for non-underlying 2017: 50k items 100% 100% Group materiality 2017: 100% 2017: 100% 100 100 100 100 Full scope for Group Full scope for Group audit purposes 2018 audit purposes 2017 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Card Factory plc continued 4.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON GOING CONCERN Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the longerWe are required to report to you if: term viability statement.
We have nothing to report in thisrespect.
we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to the directors statement in note 1 to the Corporate governance disclosures financial statements on the use of the going concern basis We are required to report to you if: of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of we have identified material inconsistencies between the that basis for a period of at least twelve months from the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements date of approval of the financial statements: or audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides page 70 if the same statement is materially inconsistent the information necessary for shareholders to assess the with our audit knowledge.
Groups position and performance, business model and We have nothing to report in these respects.
strategy: or the section of the annual report describing the work of the 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the financial We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements 6.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit EXCEPTION knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to material misstatements in the other information.
you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Strategic report and directors report Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Based solely on our work on the other information: not been received from branches not visited by us: or we have not identified material misstatements in the the parent Company financial statements and the part of strategic report and the directors report: the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in our opinion the information given in those reports for in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the financial year is consistent with the financial certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by statements: and law are not made: or in our opinion those reports have been prepared in we have not received all the information and explanations accordance with the Companies Act 2006. we require for our audit.
Directors remuneration report In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report 7.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Directors responsibilities the Companies Act 2006.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 72, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability financial statements including being satisfied that they give a Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial true and fair view: such internal control as they determine is statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements attention to in relation to: that are free from material misstatement, whether due to the directors confirmation within the longer-term viability fraud or error: assessing the Group and parent Companys statement on pages 70 and 71 that they have carried out a ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, applicable, matters related to going concern: and using the including those that would threaten its business model, going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to future performance, solvency and liquidity: liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and the directors explanation in the longer-term viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
76 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials Auditors responsibilities 8.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND TO WHOM WE Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about OWE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES whether the financial statements as a whole are free from This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion in Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of that we might state to the Companys members those matters assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
Nicola Quayle Senior Statutory Auditor A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor FRCs website at www.
Chartered Accountants Irregularities ability to detect 1 Sovereign Square We identified areas of laws and regulations that could Sovereign Street reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the Leeds financial statements from our sector experience, through LS1 4DA discussion with the directors and other management as required by auditing standards, and from inspection of the 9 April 2018 Groups regulatory and legal correspondence.
We had regard to laws and regulations in areas that directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting including related company legislation and taxation legislation.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related annual accounts items.
In addition we considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas of the national minimum wage legislation.
With the exception of any known or possible non-compliance, and as required by auditing standards, our work in respect of these was limited to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence.
We considered the effect of any known or possible non-compliance in these areas as part of our procedures on the related financial statements items.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of noncompliance throughout the audit.
As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of nondetection of non-compliance with relevant laws and regulations irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77
