Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Centamin plc Report on the audit Our audit approach The scope of our audit of the financial statements Overview As part of designing our audit, Opinion we determined materiality and assessed Overall Group materiality: $10.5 million the risks of material misstatement in the In our opinion, Centamin plcs Group 2017: $9.5 million, based on 5% of financial statements the financial financial statements.
In particular, three-year average profit before tax.
we looked at where the Directors made statements : We focused our audit procedures on subjective judgments, for example in the Sukari Gold Mine, as well as give a true and fair view of the state of respect of significant accounting estimates performing audit procedures over the the Groups affairs as at 31 December that involved making assumptions and Groups significant exploration 2018 and of its profit and cash flows for considering future events that are operation and corporate activities.
the year then ended: inherently uncertain.
One component was subject to an audit have been properly prepared in of its complete financial information As in all of our audits we also addressed accordance with International Financial whilst a further four were subject to the risk of management override of internal Reporting Standards IFRSs as specific audit procedures over material controls, including testing journals and adopted by the European Union: and balances.
Audit procedures were evaluating whether there was evidence have been prepared in accordance with performed in Egypt and Jersey.
of bias by the Directors that represented a the requirements of the Companies All audit work on key audit matters risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Jersey Law 1991. was performed by the Group Key audit matters We have audited the financial statements, engagement team.
Key audit matters are those matters that, included within the annual report, which in the auditors professional judgment, comprise: the consolidated statement of were of most significance in the audit of financial position as at 31 December 2018: the financial statements of the current Materiality the consolidated statement of period and include the most significant comprehensive income, the consolidated assessed risks of material misstatement statement of cash flows, and the whether or not due to fraud identified by consolidated statement of changes in Audit the auditors, including those which had equity for the year then ended: and the Scope the greatest effect on: the overall audit notes to the financial statements, which strategy: the allocation of resources in the include a description of the significant audit: and directing the efforts of the accounting policies.
These matters, and any Matters Basis for opinion comments we make on the results of our We conducted our audit in accordance procedures thereon, were addressed in with International Standards on Auditing the context of our audit of the financial UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
statements as a whole, and in forming our Key audit matters Our responsibilities under ISAs UK opinion thereon, and we do not provide a Ongoing legal actions which are are further described in the Auditors separate opinion on these matters.
This is under appeal before the Supreme responsibilities for the audit of the financial not a complete list of all risks identified by Administrative Court in Egypt statements section of our report.
concerning the validity of the Sukari We believe that the audit evidence Concession Agreement and the claim we have obtained is sufficient and before the Administrative Court appropriate to provide a basis for concerning diesel fuel disputes.
Amounts due to the government with Independence respect to the Sukari operation.
We remained independent of the Group in Impairment of property, plant and accordance with the ethical requirements equipment.
that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Centamin plc KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Ongoing legal actions We discussed the cases with the Groups external legal advisers, and read correspondence including the Concession The appeal before the Supreme Administrative Agreement to understand the legal challenge and the basis of Court in Egypt concerning the validity of the Sukari Concession Agreement the Directors assessment of the likely outcome of the cases.
Refer to page 192 note 5.1 to the financial statements and We assessed the competence and objectivity of the external page 44 Principal risks.
legal advisers by considering factors including professional qualifications and fee arrangements.
These procedures The Group is in the process of appealing a ruling passed satisfied us that the external legal advisers were competent by the Egyptian Administrative Court in October 2012. and objective.
If the ruling is upheld, the Groups operations at the Sukari The appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court in site may be significantly reduced and there is therefore a risk Egypt concerning the validity of the Sukari Concession of material impairment in property, plant and equipment at Agreement Sukari, which has a carrying value of $835 million at Based on our work summarised above, we determined that 31 December 2018. the Directors had reflected all available information in their The outcome of this matter is subject to significant assessment.
uncertainty due to the political, social and economic The claim before the Administrative Court environment in Egypt.
The claim before the Administrative Court We agreed the current year payments and the corresponding concerning diesel fuel disputes provision to the underlying accounting records.
The results of Refer to page 192 note 5.1 to the financial statements and the procedures we performed support the Directors page 44 Principal risks.
accounting treatment, under which no additional liability was The Group is involved in an ongoing legal case relating to recognised in respect of the $22.5 million historical case and historical and current fuel subsidies in Egypt.
The potential no contingent asset was recognised in respect of the current amount that could be recouped by the Group relating to the subsidy case current subsidy case is $327 million and the potential amount We agreed the disclosures for both of these matters in note that the Group could have to pay if they lose the historical 2.7 and 5.1 to the financial statements and concluded that case is approximately $22.5 million as at 31 December 2018. they are consistent with our understanding.
To date, the Group has booked a provision with respect to the $327 million fuel payment, but has not provided for the historical $22.5 million, based on internal and external assessments of the merits of the case, but has made disclosure of a contingent liability.
The Group has disclosed the impact of the current subsidy case, being the difference between international and subsidised diesel prices that has impacted the Groups results for the year, in note 2.7 to the financial statements.
No contingent asset has been recognised.
Amounts due to the government with We held discussions with management regarding its respect to the Sukari operation calculation of the amount due to EMRA.
We agreed the Refer to page 172 note 2.4 to the financial statements and amounts in the calculation to source documentation and the underlying accounting records.
We read the minutes of meetings with EMRA and held The nature of the Concession Agreement means that there are items that can be open to interpretation.
As a result the discussions with the Groups external legal advisers regarding the current disputed items.
We assessed managements Group is subject to periodic challenges by Egyptian Mineral Resource Authority EMRA on amounts owed under the estimate of the likely outcome of items currently in dispute to satisfy ourselves that amounts due to EMRA had been Agreement.
The amounts owed to EMRA with respect to the profit We performed procedures to ensure the completeness of sharing arrangement under the Concession Agreement are based on managements best judgment of the probable amounts due to EMRA, with no material unrecorded amounts identified.
amount of the profit share liability.
We agreed the disclosure in note 2.4 to the financial As at 31 December 2018 the Group has accrued and paid dividends to the non-controlling interest in SGM of statements to ensure it was consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the matter obtained in the course of $76 million as the result of profit sharing and cost recovery mechanisms under the Concession Agreement, which we the audit.
considered merited our focus due to its size and nature.
148 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Impairment of property, plant and equipment We considered managements impairment trigger analysis and agreed that an impairment indicator exists.
2.1 to the financial statements and page 111 audit and risk report.
Management used external experts to prepare the reserves and resources statements for Sukari.
We assessed the The Group has property, plant and equipment of competence and objectivity of the experts by considering US$835 million as at 31 December 2018, primarily contained factors including professional qualifications and fee within the Sukari cash generating unit Sukari.
We held discussions with the experts Management determined that the revision of the annual regarding the key judgments and estimates taken during production guidance at Sukari during the year and the preparation of the reserves and resources statements.
corresponding decrease in share price was a trigger for an We used our valuation experts to assist us in evaluating the impairment assessment.
Management therefore performed appropriateness of the gold price, discount rate and the an impairment assessment based on the latest reserves and in-situ resource multiple.
resources statements and the life of mine plan as at 31 December 2018.
Management determined that the In assessing the valuation of Sukari, we evaluated recoverable amount of Sukari exceeds the carrying value.
managements future cash flow forecasts, and the process by which they were drawn up, including checking the The determination of recoverable amount was based on the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and agreeing fair value less costs to dispose, which was higher than future capital and operating expenditure to the latest Board value-in-use.
The estimate of the recoverable amount approved budgets and the latest approved life of mine plan.
requires significant judgments on the part of management in We assessed the reasonableness of managements future valuing Sukari.
Management considered the key assumptions forecasts included in the cash flow forecasts in light of the to be long term gold price, the in-situ resource multiple and historical accuracy of such forecasts and the current short term production volume.
Management sensitised the operational results.
As a results of this assessment we 2019 production volume, gold price forecast and in-situ performed sensitivity analysis around the key assumptions multiple and concluded that any reasonably possible changes within the cash flow forecasts using a lower production in these assumptions do not lead to impairment of the profile, lower gold prices and lower in-situ resource multiple, carrying value.
based on what, in our view, a market participant may apply.
Our sensitivity analysis highlighted that the estimate of the recoverable amount of Sukari is sensitive to changes in key assumptions, however, a reasonable possible change in these assumptions in isolation did not remove headroom or result in impairment.
We satisfied ourselves that this was appropriately highlighted within the disclosures in note 1.1.
How we tailored the audit scope Centamin plc is listed on the London Our Group audit scope focused primarily Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock on the Sukari Gold mine which was subject We tailored the scope of our audit to Exchange.
For compliance with Toronto to a full-scope audit.
Specific audit ensure that we performed enough work to Stock Exchange regulations and Canadian procedures were performed over material be able to give an opinion on the financial statutory requirements, the Group balances for four components relating to statements as a whole, taking into account produces separate financial statements.
the Groups exploration operations and the structure of the Group, the accounting We provide a separate auditors report on corporate activities.
We visited the Sukari processes and controls, and the industry in those financial statements.
mine and conducted audit fieldwork in which it operates.
During these visits, we The Groups principal operation is the observed and discussed mining and Sukari Gold mine in Egypt.
In addition to exploration operations with local the mine the Group continues its management and held discussions with the exploration projects in Burkina Faso and Groups external in-country legal counsel Cte dIvoire.
Furthermore, we performed work over the consolidation of the Groups components and the Parent Company.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 149 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report continued to the members of Centamin plc Materiality Based on our professional judgment, For each component in the scope of our we determined materiality for the financial Group audit, we allocated a materiality that The scope of our audit was influenced statements as a whole as follows: is less than our overall Group materiality.
by our application of materiality.
We set The range of materiality allocated across certain quantitative thresholds for Overall Group materiality components was between $1.0 million and materiality.
These, together with qualitative $10.5 million 2017: $9.5 million.
considerations, helped us to determine the How we determined it scope of our audit and the nature, timing We agreed with the Audit and Risk and extent of our audit procedures on the 5% of three-year average profit before Committee that we would report to them individual financial statement line items tax PBT.
misstatements identified during our audit and disclosures and in evaluating the above $525,000 2017: $475,000 as well Rationale for benchmark applied effect of misstatements, both individually as misstatements below that amount that, We chose PBT as it is one of the key and in aggregate on the financial in our view, warranted reporting for indicators of the financial performance of statements as a whole.
We used a three-year average due to the volatility of annual gold production.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: REPORTING OBLIGATION OUTCOME We are required to report if we have anything material to We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
add or draw attention to in respect of the Directors However, because not all future events or conditions can be statement in the financial statements about whether the predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going ability to continue as a going concern.
For example, the terms concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial on which the United Kingdom may withdraw from the statements and the Directors identification of any material European Union, which is currently due to occur on uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue as a going 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult to evaluate concern over a period of at least twelve months from the all of the potential implications on the Companys trade, date of approval of the financial statements.
customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement We have nothing to report.
relating to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information If we identify an apparent material The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the inconsistency or material misstatement, The other information comprises all of the principal risks that would threaten the we are required to perform procedures information in the annual report other than solvency or liquidity of the Group to conclude whether there is a material the financial statements and our auditors We have nothing material to add or misstatement of the financial statements report thereon.
The Directors are draw attention to regarding: or a material misstatement of the other responsible for the other information.
If, based on the work we have Our opinion on the financial statements The Directors confirmation on page performed, we conclude that there is a does not cover the other information and, 146 of the annual report that they have material misstatement of this other accordingly, we do not express an audit carried out a robust assessment of the information, we are required to report that opinion or, except to the extent otherwise principal risks facing the Group, fact.
We have nothing to report based on explicitly stated in this report, any form of including those that would threaten its these responsibilities.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Based on the responsibilities described In connection with our audit of the above and our work undertaken in the The disclosures in the annual report financial statements, our responsibility that describe those risks and explain course of the audit, ISAs UK and the is to read the other information and, in Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct how they are being managed or doing so, consider whether the other mitigated.
Authority FCA require us also to report information is materially inconsistent with certain opinions and matters as described the financial statements or our knowledge below required by ISAs UK unless obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears otherwise stated.
150 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors explanation on page 48 Opinions on additional disclosures Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements of the annual report as to how they Directors remuneration report have assessed the prospects of the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable The Company voluntarily prepares a Group, over what period they have assurance about whether the financial Directors remuneration report in done so and why they consider that statements as a whole are free from accordance with the provisions of the period to be appropriate, and their material misstatement, whether due to United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 statement as to whether they have a fraud or error, and to issue an auditors Companies Act 2006.
The Directors reasonable expectation that the Group report that includes our opinion.
have requested that we audit the part of will be able to continue in operation Reasonable assurance is a high level of the Directors remuneration report and meet its liabilities as they fall due assurance, but is not a guarantee that an specified by the Companies Act 2006 to over the period of their assessment, audit conducted in accordance with ISAs be audited as if the Company were a UK including any related disclosures UK will always detect a material quoted company.
In our opinion, the part drawing attention to any necessary misstatement when it exists.
of the Directors remuneration report to qualifications or assumptions.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error be audited has been properly prepared in and are considered material if, individually accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report having or in the aggregate, they could reasonably performed a review of the Directors Corporate Governance Statement be expected to influence the economic statement that they have carried out a The Company prepares a corporate decisions of users taken on the basis of robust assessment of the principal risks governance statement that includes the these financial statements.
facing the Group and statement in relation information with respect to internal control to the longer-term viability of the Group.
A further description of our and risk management systems and about Our review was substantially less in scope responsibilities for the audit of the financial share capital structures required by the than an audit and only consisted of making statements is located on the FRCs website Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of inquiries and considering the Directors at: www.
The process supporting their statements: This description forms part of our auditors Directors have requested that we report checking that the statements are in report.
on the consistency of that information with alignment with the relevant provisions of the financial statements.
In our opinion, Use of this report the UK Corporate Governance Code the the information given in the Corporate This report, including the opinions, Code : and considering whether the Governance Statement set out on pages has been prepared for and only for the statements are consistent with the 92 and 93, with respect to internal control Companys members as a body in knowledge and understanding of the and risk management systems and about accordance with Article 113A of the Group and its environment obtained in share capital structures is consistent with Companies Jersey Law 1991 and for no the course of the audit.
Listing Rules the financial statements.
We do not, in giving these Other Code Provisions opinions, accept or assume responsibility Responsibilities for the financial We have nothing to report in respect of for any other purpose or to any other statements and the audit our responsibility to report when: person to whom this report is shown or Responsibilities of the Directors for into whose hands it may come save where the financial statements The statement given by the Directors, expressly agreed by our prior consent As explained more fully in the Directors on page 146, that they consider the in writing.
Responsibilities Statement set out on annual report taken as a whole to be page 146, the Directors are responsible for Other required reporting fair, balanced and understandable, and the preparation of the financial statements provides the information necessary for Companies Jersey Law 1991 in accordance with the applicable the members to assess the Groups exception reporting framework and for being satisfied that they position and performance, business Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 give a true and fair view.
The Directors are model and strategy is materially we are required to report to you if, in our also responsible for such internal control as inconsistent with our knowledge of opinion we have not received all the they determine is necessary to enable the the Group obtained in the course of information and explanations we require preparation of financial statements that are performing our audit.
free from material misstatement, whether The section of the annual report on We have no exceptions to report arising due to fraud or error.
page 108 describing the work of the from this responsibility.
Audit and Risk Committee does not In preparing the financial statements, appropriately address matters the Directors are responsible for assessing communicated by us to the Audit the Groups ability to continue as a going and Risk Committee.
concern, disclosing as applicable, matters The Directors statement relating to the Jonathan Lambert related to going concern and using the Companys compliance with the Code going concern basis of accounting unless for and on behalf of does not properly disclose a departure the Directors either intend to liquidate the  LLP from a relevant provision of the Code Group or to cease operations, or have no Chartered Accountants and specified, under the Listing Rules, for realistic alternative but to do so.
Recognised Auditors review by the auditors.
London 1 March 2019 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 151
