Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Report on the audit of the financial statements the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable Opinion law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial In our opinion: reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation the Financial Statements of Centrica plc the Company and its of the Company Financial Statements is applicable law and subsidiaries the Group give a true and fair view of the state United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Basis for opinion in accordance with International Financial Reporting We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
the Company Financial Statements have been properly Our responsibilities under those standards are further described prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the Financial Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Statements section of our report.
Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and We are independent of the Group and the Company in accordance the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, Financial Statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed the IAS Regulation.
public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical We have audited the financial statements which comprise: responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
the Group Income Statement: We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
the Group and Company Balance Sheets: the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
the Group Cash Flow Statement: and the related notes 1 to 26 and the supplementary notes S1 to S11 of the Group financial statements and notes I to XVIII of the Company financial statements.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Presentation of the Group Income Statement: Impairment or write back of long-life assets: Revenue and cost recognition for derivatives: and Estimation of accrued energy revenue.
Within this report, any new key audit matters are identified with and any key audit matters which are the same as the prior year are identified with.
The materiality that we used for the Group Financial Statements was 60 million which was determined on the Materiality basis of 5% of profit before tax adjusted for exceptional items and certain re-measurements, as defined in note 2 a and note 7.
All segments of the Group have been subject to a full scope audit using a component materiality level relevant Scoping to the size and risk associated with that segment other than Distributed Energy & Power and Central Power Generation, which were subject to specified audit procedures.
The following changes were made to the key audit matters reported in the prior year: Significant changes in our approach We have refined the key audit matter reported in the prior year around the presentation of exceptional items and certain re-measurements to cover the overall presentation of the Group Income Statement.
The accounting for the acquisition of Bayerngas Norge ASs exploration and production business is no longer a key audit matter as it is not relevant in the current year as the transaction completed in 2017.
114 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
We have reviewed the directors statement on page 112 to the Financial Statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups and Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the company, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 41 to 51 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 44 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 51 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance to our audit of the Financial Statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters include those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Financial Statements I Independent Auditors Report Key audit How the scope of our audit matter description responded to the key audit matter Presentation of the Group Income Statement The Group Income Statement set out on page 124 of the Annual Report & Accounts Audit procedures applicable to all items segregates Business performance from Exceptional items and certain re-measurements We assessed the design and implementation of the Middle column in arriving at the results for the year with additional information key controls around the presentation of items within disclosed in Note 7.
The Groups policy on the presentation of exceptional items and either Business performance or the Middle column.
certain re-measurements can be found in notes 2 a and 2 b.
The Audit Committee We reviewed the Groups policy on the recording also discuss this area in their report on pages 80 to 84. of items within Business performance or the Middle Business performance is a critical measure for stakeholders and underpins the Groups column and considered whether that policy was segmental analysis and description of business results and therefore the classification appropriate.
We also evaluated the Groups policy of items between Business performance and the Middle column is important for users against guidance issued by the Financial Reporting of the accounts.
Council FRC and the European Securities and The key items included within the Middle column are as follows: Markets Authority ESMA.
Impairment and or write back of certain assets: We challenged Management on the presentation of items within the Middle column and whether Re-measurement of certain energy contracts: these items had been correctly presented within Restructuring and business change costs: the appropriate column and properly disclosed in Provision for onerous contracts: line with the Groups policy.
Guaranteed minimum pension equalisation past service cost: Audit procedures applicable to specific items Debt repurchase costs: and On impairment and or write backs of certain assets Related tax charges and credits.
and related onerous contract provisions, we challenged Management on the factors that caused The Group has an established policy which governs which items should be recognised any significant movement in value on each asset by in the Middle column.
However, judgement is applied in the application of this policy.
interrogating the underlying impairment models and This is a key area of audit focus for our audit.
We identified a fraud risk in respect of the whether the impairment and or write back had been presentation of exceptional items, in particular restructuring and business change costs.
recorded within the correct column.
The valuation and recording of the impairment and write back of certain assets and the On the re-measurement of certain energy contracts valuation and recording of the re-measurement of certain energy contracts are separate and the recycling on realisation of certain fair key audit matters.
Please see pages 117 and 118 for further detail.
The presentation of value movements to revenue, we reviewed relevant these items and related onerous contract provisions within either Business performance accounting literature in order to determine whether or the Middle column is addressed within this key audit matter.
the approach adopted was reasonable.
The Group records re-measurements of certain energy contracts within cost of sales For restructuring and business change costs we when unrealised.
The Groups policy for the re-measurement of certain energy contracts audited the costs recorded by Management within includes the reclassification of mark to market movements between cost of sales and the Middle column and challenged whether those revenue upon realisation of those contracts.
This is a common treatment but challenge costs were being correctly reported in line with has been made as to whether it is appropriate following the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial the Groups policy.
Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
This practice is We reviewed the presentation and disclosure of currently under consultation by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Managements conclusions in the Annual Report Committee IFRIC.
A change in policy and presentation may be required in 2019 if the & Accounts to assess whether the disclosures IFRIC determines that such reclassifications are no longer permitted.
are consistent with the Groups policy and relevant The Group announced in 2018 the second phase of the strategic review which was accounting standards.
Significant restructuring and business change costs were incurred in 2018 in relation to this review as set out on page 38.
The costs of restructuring and business change arising from the strategic review are included within the Middle Column.
Judgement is needed around which costs are included within the Middle column and which are reported as ongoing costs within Business performance.
Key observations The majority of the asset impairments and or write backs arise from changes in forecast future energy prices and therefore under the Groups policy are appropriately recorded within the Middle column.
Where the impairment and or write back involves a change in forecast future energy prices combined with factors such as operational performance or available reserves, a judgement is taken by the Group whether this should be reported in the Middle column.
We believe these judgements are reasonable.
We are satisfied that the Groups current treatment for the reclassification of mark to market movements between cost of sales and revenue is reasonable pending the IFRIC determination.
The majority of restructuring costs relate to clearly defined projects see 36.
However, there are certain smaller costs incurred in the year which relate to restructuring activities in other areas of the business, and which have been treated as exceptional items and presented within the Middle column in the income statement.
Whilst the treatment of these costs as exceptional is subjective, the costs incurred are not material to the Financial Statements.
116 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit How the scope of our audit matter description responded to the key audit matter Impairment or write back of long-life assets The total book value of Gas production and storage assets is 3,438m and the total Procedures on the overall impairment review book value of the investment in Nuclear is 1,645m.
Management have recorded a We have understood managements process for net pre-tax impairment reversal of 90 million as disclosed in note 7.
Further details on identifying indicators of impairment and for performing the key sources of estimation certainty underpinning the impairment of long life assets their impairment assessment.
We assessed the design can be found in note 3 b.
Details on the sensitivity of the above impairment reviews and implementation of key controls relating to the asset to changes in key assumptions such as commodity prices are disclosed in Note 7 d. impairment models, the underlying forecasting process The matter is also considered by the Audit Committee in their report on pages 80 and the impairment reviews performed.
We evaluated and challenged the key assumptions The Group owns significant upstream gas and oil assets and certain power generation and inputs into the impairment models, which assets, which are required to be reviewed for indicators of impairment and tested included performing sensitivity analysis, to evaluate for impairment as appropriate.
the impact of selecting alternative assumptions.
These assets are subject to the greatest estimation uncertainty due to their sensitivity We audited the arithmetical accuracy of the impairment to factors such as future commodity prices and discount rates.
We recalculated the impairment charges, Consequently they represent the highest risk of impairment.
We therefore identified a risk write backs or headroom and agreed these to of material misstatement that these long-life assets are not recoverable or that previously financial records.
recorded impairments should or should not be reversed.
We evaluated the impairment or write back judgements The impairment assessment involves management judgement in considering taken, with reference to our assessment of the key whether the carrying value of those assets or cash generating units are recoverable.
assumptions as outlined above and the outcome of The key assumptions and judgements underpinning the impairment reviews include: the sensitivities performed.
For potential impairment write backs, we understood the causes of any such forecast future cash flows: write back, and corroborated this to evidence of trigger forecast future production or generation profiles: events, and evaluated whether the write back should forecast future commodity prices: or should not be recognised.
estimates of oil and gas reserves: and Procedures relating to forecast future cash flows determining an appropriate discount rate.
We confirmed that forecast cash flows were consistent with Board approved forecasts, and analysed reasonably possible downside sensitivities.
We validated production profiles to external reserve and operator estimates and agreed these to the cash flow forecast assumptions.
We confirmed estimates of oil and gas reserves to third party reserve reports, assessing the skills, qualifications and independence of those third party experts.
We evaluated the Groups determination of future commodity prices using our own internal experts, who benchmarked against externally available future commodity price estimates and performed sensitivity analysis with alternative future prices.
Procedures relating to the discount rate s We involved our internal valuation specialists to evaluate managements discount rates, which involved benchmarking against available market views and analysis.
Key observations We are satisfied that the key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount of long-life assets are appropriate, including estimates of reserves, production and generation profiles.
We are also satisfied that the Groups discount rate assumptions are determined based on acceptable valuation methodologies.
These assumptions are towards the higher end when compared to the ranges determined by our internal valuation specialists but are considered reasonable.
The Groups future commodity price estimates are within the acceptable range of external sources, albeit at the high end of this range.
Based on the sensitivities we performed we are satisfied that the Groups total net pre-tax impairment reversal of 90 million is appropriate and other long-life assets are not impaired.
We concur with Managements judgement that, other than those write backs recognised, previously recorded impairments should not currently be written back.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 Financial Statements I Independent Auditors Report Key audit How the scope of our audit matter description responded to the key audit matter Revenue and cost recognition for derivatives Details on the Groups derivative activities can be found in note 19 and note S3 a.
We have understood the Groups processes and The key sources of estimation uncertainty associated with derivatives can be found in controls for authorising and recording commodity note 3 b with further details on the presentation of certain re-measurement arising on trades including assessing the design and derivatives disclosed in note 2 b.
The matter is also considered by the Audit Committee implementation of key controls.
in their report on pages 80 to 84.
As disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements, In the Groups Energy, Marketing and Trading EM&T certain re-measurements of 220 million have been recognised in the current year.
segment, we used data analytics to trace commodity The critical accounting judgement in respect of Liquefied Natural Gas LNG is trades from initiation through to confirmation, disclosed in note 3 a and the long term LNG commitments are disclosed in note 23. settlement where relevant and recording in the In addition to proprietary trading activities, the Group enters into forward commodity Groups accounting systems.
This included an contracts to optimise the value of its production, generation, storage and transportation assessment of whether the accounting recognition assets as well as to meet the future needs of its customers.
Certain of these was in line with the Groups accounting policies and arrangements are accounted for as derivative financial instruments and are recorded relevant accounting standards.
We identified the following risks in respect of commodity trades: Valuation of complex trades Valuation of complex trades We used financial instrument specialists to assist the Judgement is required in valuing derivative contracts, particularly where there is audit team in valuing complex trades, which included optionality in a contract that requires modelling on a bespoke basis Level 2 or 3 auditing the Groups valuation models by creating an in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
As such we identified a independent valuation, or performing input and output risk relating to the valuation of complex trades.
analysis for all material non-standard contracts.
Own-use treatment and accruals accounting Own-use treatment Certain commodity contracts have been entered into for the purposes of securing We reviewed all the Groups material own use commodities for the energy supply businesses.
Where contracts have been entered contracts which were entered into during the year into to satisfy Centricas normal business activities, these have been determined to to determine whether the application of the own-use be own-use contracts and consequently are not recorded at fair value.
Due to the treatment was appropriate.
size and value of these contracts we have identified the appropriateness of the We audited the prospective and retrospective demand own-use treatment as a key audit matter.
tests performed by the Group to determine whether The Group does not consider its long term LNG supply contracts as derivatives the contract volumes exceed the amount of estimated because of a lack of market liquidity.
Such contracts are therefore not marked own-use demand in the relevant periods, including an to market.
These contracts are significant commitments and therefore this evaluation of the contracts for net settlement activity.
judgement is important to the Groups financial statements.
Allocation of optimisation and hedging trading activity Allocation of optimisation and hedging trading activity in the Middle column in the Middle column Where the Group enters into trades that give rise to an accounting mismatch We audited the principles management use to between accrual accounted assets, contracts and demand and the marked to determine whether a trade should be recognised as market accounted forward commodity contracts, the fair values of those contracts part of on-going business performance or presented are accounted for separately as certain re-measurements within the Middle column separately.
We evaluated whether those agreed of the Groups Income Statement and are excluded from Business performance.
principles had been applied consistently by reviewing key contracts and testing a sample of trades to confirm Due to the judgement involved in identifying and valuing these contracts, we have that the accounting treatment was appropriate.
identified the appropriateness of the allocation of trades to the Middle column as a key audit matter, as this has a significant impact on the Groups reported business We also verified that trades within certain performance.
This was also identified by us a fraud risk.
re-measurements were entered into at market prices where the counter-party was another Group business, to ensure that profits and losses within the Middle column reflect only market-related movements.
Key observations We are satisfied that commodity trades are valued appropriately and that the accounting classification and valuation of trades is appropriate.
In North America Business, we identified misstatements associated with the own use classification which arose as a result of weaknesses in the control environment.
These misstatements were not material and were corrected by management, but improvements are required to the control environment relating to these accounting judgements.
North America Business controls and accounting processes are discussed in the Audit Committee report on pages 80 to 84.
We agree with the conclusion that LNG contracts should not be marked to market.
118 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Key audit How the scope of our audit matter description responded to the key audit matter Estimation of accrued energy revenue Details on the Groups accrued energy income can be found in note 17.
Total supply Our audit approach for unbilled revenue was a accrued energy income at 31 December 2018 was 1,542m 2017: 1,585m.
The key combination of tests of internal control and data source of estimation uncertainty associated with accrued energy income is disclosed analytics work.
This included understanding the design in note 3 b.
The matter is also considered by the Audit Committee in their report on of controls in the UK and North American revenue pages 80 to 84. processes, from meter reading to cash collection, and controls over the period end revenue reconciliation The recognition of energy supply revenue requires the Group to estimate customer process.
In the UK, we tested the design, implementation energy usage between the date of the last meter read and the year end, known as and operating effectiveness of key controls relied on accrued or unbilled energy revenue.
to estimate accrued energy revenue.
In North America, Our risk was focused on the accuracy and valuation of accrued energy revenue in the we assessed the design and implementation of controls UK and North American Home and Business segments being the segments with the around accrued energy revenue.
most significant accrued energy revenue.
We have pinpointed the risk to the estimates We used data analytics in UK Home and Business underpinning the recognition and valuation of accrued energy revenue and the potential to independently recalculate the accrued energy for management override of related controls.
We also identified this as a fraud risk.
revenue estimate generated by the billing systems for each customer account, in addition to auditing key manual adjustments made by management, and the key assumption, being the value of energy consumed since the last meter read.
In North America, we focused on creating an independent estimate of accrued energy revenue and compared this to the estimate determined by management.
In the UK and North America we assessed the accuracy of the estimates made by management in prior periods.
Any differences as a result of the work performed were investigated and challenged.
Key observations We are satisfied that the estimation of the Groups accrued energy revenue is materially correct.
The estimation processes in the UK are appropriately controlled and whilst some improvements were made to processes in North America, the controls are not yet at a stage where we were are able to rely on their operating effectiveness.
This is discussed further in the Audit Committees report on pages 80 to 84.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Financial Statements I Independent Auditors Report Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the Financial Statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements 60 million 2017: 50 million 50 million 2017: 40 million Materiality Basis for determining We determined Group materiality on the basis of 5% of forecast We determined Company materiality based 2018 pre-tax profit, adjusted for exceptional items and certain on 1% 2017: 1% of estimated net assets.
materiality re-measurements as defined in note 7 to the financial statements Our materiality represents 0.9% of final 2017: 5%.
Our materiality represents 5.4% of the final pre-tax net assets 2017: 0.8%.
profit adjusted for exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2017: 5.6%.
Pre-tax profit adjusted for exceptional items and certain We considered net assets to be the Rationale for the re-measurements was considered to be the most relevant most appropriate benchmark given benchmark applied benchmark as it is of most interest to stakeholders.
the primary purpose of the company is a holding company.
Furthermore, exceptional items and certain re-measurements are volatile and materially impact the Groups performance each year due to events and transactions that are not part of the underlying activities of the Group, and excluding them enables a more consistent basis with which to consider the Groups performance on an ongoing basis.
Group materiality 60m Pre-tax profit Component adjusted for materiality exceptional range 50m items and certain to 20m re-measurements 1,119m Audit Committee Adjusted PBT threshold reporting Group materiality 5m We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 5 million 2017: 5 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
The following components were identified as individually An overview of the scope of our audit non-significant components.
However we concluded The Group is organised by its different operating segments that a full scope audit was appropriate where components as outlined in note 4.
These operating segments represent have material risks or given the strategic importance of the different businesses in the Group, and are how management the businesses: monitor performance.
We used the Groups operating segments Connected Home as the basis for our audit scope.
UK Business Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Ireland Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Centrica Storage within Exploration and Production Group level.
Having performed this assessment it was The following components were individually not financially concluded that the following components were considered significant and as such we performed specified audit procedures to be the most significant and were subject to full scope audits: over relevant audit risks: UK Home Distributed Energy & Power North America Home Central Power Generation North America Business This scoping resulted in 98% of Group revenue, 94% of Energy Marketing & Trading Group profit before tax and 96% of Group net assets being Exploration & Production Spirit Energy subject to audit.
The materiality levels of the components ranged from 20 million to 50 million depending on the contribution of the components operations to the Group and our assessment of risk relevant to each location.
Given our judgement to perform full scope audits in the non-significant segments noted above, we determined that a component materiality of 20 million for these businesses was appropriate to reflect the lower risk profile of these segments.
120 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 All components except for North America Home, North America Responsibilities of directors Business and Ireland are audited from the United Kingdom and As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, hence we oversee these component audits through regular the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Financial meetings and direct supervision.
For the overseas components, Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair each was visited throughout the year by the Group audit partner view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is and other senior members of the engagement team.
Throughout necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that the year, the Group audit team has been directly involved in are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
overseeing the component audit planning and execution, through In preparing the Financial Statements, the Directors are frequent conversations, team meetings, debate, challenge and responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys review of reporting and underlying work papers.
In addition to our ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, direct interactions, we sent detailed instructions to our component matters related to going concern and using the going concern audit teams, attended audit closing meetings, and reviewed their basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate audit working papers.
We are satisfied that the level of involvement the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have of the Group audit partner and team in the component audits no realistic alternative but to do so.
has been extensive, and has enabled us to conclude that sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained in support of Auditors responsibilities for the our opinion on the Group Financial Statements as a whole.
audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about Other information whether the Financial Statements as a whole are free from The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to information comprises the information included in the Annual issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable Report, other than the Financial Statements and our auditors assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee report thereon.
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always Our opinion on the Financial Statements does not cover the detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be conclusion thereon.
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken In connection with our audit of the Financial Statements, our on the basis of these Financial Statements.
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
with the Financial Statements or our knowledge obtained in the A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
the Financial Statements is located on the FRCs website at: If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material www.
This description misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a forms part of our auditors report.
material misstatement in the Financial Statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and Financial Statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit Committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Financial Statements I Independent Auditors Report Audit response to risks identified Extent to which the audit was As a result of performing the above, we identified i considered capable of detecting The Presentation of the Group Income Statement, ii Revenue irregularities, including fraud and cost recognition for derivatives and iii Estimation of We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement unbilled energy supply revenue as key audit matters which of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, were also identified as risks of fraud.
The key audit matters and then design and perform audit procedures responsive section of our report explains the matters in more detail and to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is also describes the specific procedures we performed in sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
response to those key audit matters.
Identifying and assessing potential In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks risks related to irregularities identified included the following: In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance to supporting documentation to assess compliance with with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, internal audit, and the Audit enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house Committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation documentation, concerning the Groups policies and and claims: procedures relating to: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of regulations and whether they were aware of any instances material misstatement due to fraud: of non-compliance: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged with relevant authorities where matters identified were fraud: and significant: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related performing audit procedures to challenge the key assumptions to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations.
underpinning those audit risks where a risk of fraud was identified but which were not identified as key audit matters discussing among the engagement team including significant including decommissioning provisions and the completeness component audit teams and involving relevant internal of provisions for uncertain tax provisions: specialists, including tax, valuations, pensions and IT regarding in addressing the risk of fraud through management override how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made we considered there was a risk of fraud around the presentation in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential of the Group income statement, the valuation and recognition bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant of derivatives and the recognition of accrued energy income transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course all of which are considered key audit matters.
considered there was a risk of fraud around the valuation of decommissioning provisions, the completeness of We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations provisions for uncertain tax provisions and management and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members override of controls: and including internal specialists and significant component obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or frameworks that the Group operates in, focusing on those non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the Group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context and which could directly impact the Group include the UK Companies Act, the UK Listing Rules and Pensions and Tax legislation.
Other key regulations which could have an indirect effect include regulations set by regulators in the key markets in which the Group operates including the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Ofgem and Regulations levied by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulatory Authority.
122 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements: and the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and of the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
opinion certain disclosures of Directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Shareholders on 14 May 2018 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2018 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 2 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2018.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
James Leigh FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 20 February 2019 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123
