INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF CINEWORLD GROUP PLC 1 Our opinion is unmodified Basis for opinion We have audited the financial statements of Cineworld Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International plc the Company for the year ended 31 December 2018 Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Our responsibilities are described below.
We believe that the Loss, the Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is consistent with our Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated report to the audit committee.
Statement of Cash Flows, the Company Statement of Financial We were first appointed as auditor by the directors on Position, the Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the 23August 2004 prior to the Company becoming a public related notes, including the accounting policies in Note 1 of interest entity.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement the Group financial statement and Note 28 of the Company is for the 12 financial years ended 31 December 2018.
have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain In our opinion: independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied the financial statements give a true and fair view of the to listed public interest entities.
No non-audit services state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs prohibited by that standard were provided.
as at 31 December 2018 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: 2 Key audit matters: including our assessment of risks of material misstatement the Group financial statements have been properly Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional prepared in accordance with International Financial judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European statements and include the most significant assessed risks of Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified the parent Company financial statements have been properly by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
We summarise below the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit the financial statements have been prepared in significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together accordance with the requirements of the Companies with our key audit procedures to address those matters and, Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, as required for public interest entities, our results from those Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
74 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements The risk Our response Potential impairment Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included evaluating the Groups key of property, plant The carrying value of property, assumptions and methodology used in the value in use and equipment, plant and equipment balances at calculations supporting the carrying value of the properly, in relation to an an individual cinema level may not plant and equipment.
individual cinema be recoverable through future cash Our sector experience: Evaluating the forecast growth site in Israel Net flows as national and local factors, assumptions used.
Our assessment was based on our Book value $32.9m such as movie slates or increased existing knowledge of the business.
competition, can materially affect Risk vs 2017 site performance.
Historical comparisons: Challenging the forecast growth Refer to page 52 assumptions by comparing them to recent historical trading One particular cinema site in Israel, Audit Committee performance.
Assessing the accuracy of the Groups previous with a carrying value of $32.9m, is Report, page 91 forecasts to actual results and considering whether the in a developing market that is highly accounting policy forecasts used in the most recent impairment tests sensitive to external social and political and page 105 appropriately take into account actual performance during conditions.
As such, its low valuation financial disclosures.
Assessing the adequacy of adjustments made to the headroom presents a risk that its impairment calculation as a result of our challenge.
carrying value will not be supported by the continuing operations.
Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Groups forecast growth assumptions to internally and externally derived data.
Impairment testing valuations are Challenging the calculation of the discount rate used and based upon highly judgmental comparing it to other externally derived data with assistance input assumptions.
The key from our valuations specialist.
sensitivities in the calculation arise from the difficulties in accurately Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on the predicting site performance, which assumptions noted above.
is dependent to some extent on Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups external uncontrollable factors.
In disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the particular, the key assumptions of impairment assessment to changes in the key assumptions the valuation of the site in Israel are reflected the risks inherent in the valuation of the particular revenue growth driven by forecast cinema in Israel.
attendance levels: average ticket pricing ATP growth: spend per Our results person SPP growth : real estate We found the Groups assessment of potential impairment revenue growth and discount rate.
of property, plant and equipment, in relation to the specific cinema site in Israel to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
As a result of the subjectivity of this estimate we consider this to be a significant risk area for the audit.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Acquisition On 28 February 2018, the Company accounting completed the acquisition of Regal Entertainment Group.
The accounting for this acquisition has given rise to four specific significant risks which are detailed below.
Property related fair Subjective valuation Our procedures included: value measurement As a result of the acquisition, in Our valuation expertise: Use of our own valuation specialists $983.1m accordance with IFRS 3 Business to challenge key assumptions such as discount rate based on Combinations, management has New 2018 risk our sector expertise.
performed a fair value assessment Refer to page 52 of the acquired property related Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the groups Audit Committee tangible assets.
The Regal cinema assumptions to internally and externally derived data in Report, page 96 estate included 560 sites with a net relation to key the inputs of forecast attendance levels: accounting policy book value of $1,503m at acquisition.
ATP growth: SPP growth and discount rate.
and page 113 The valuation of the acquired Historical comparisons: Challenging growth assumptions financial disclosures.
property related tangible assets by comparing to recent historical trading performance.
requires management to make an Assessing the accuracy of the US operations forecasting estimate of the fair value of these process through comparison of previous forecasts to actual assets.
Management has used a results and considering whether the forecasts used are the number of key assumptions in the most appropriate basis upon which to value the acquired forecasting of future cash flows property related tangible assets.
Assessing the adequacy of expected to be generated, which adjustments made to the valuation as a result of our challenge.
forms the basis of the estimate.
The Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups key assumptions are revenue growth disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the fair driven by forecast attendance value assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected levels: average ticket pricing ATP the risks inherent in the valuation of acquired property growth: spend per person SPP related tangible assets.
Our results: The effect of these matters is that, We found managements assessment of the fair value as part of our risk assessment, we measurement acquired property related tangible assets determined that the value of $983.1m to be acceptable.
has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole, and possibly many times that amount.
The financial statements Note 18 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group.
76 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements Identification and Subjective valuation Our procedures included: valuation of As a result of the acquisition, Our valuation expertise: Use of our own valuation intangible assets in accordance with IFRS 3 specialists to assess the appropriateness of the intangible acquired $508.9m Business Combinations, assets identified and the valuation methodology applied management has performed and challenge key assumptions such as discount rate a fair value assessment of the based on our sector expertise.
New 2018 Risk identified acquired intangible assets.
The identification and Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Groups Refer to page 52 assessment of fair value of the assumptions to internally and externally derived data in Audit Committee intangible assets and liabilities relation to the key inputs of forecast attendance levels: Report, page 96 acquired is dependent on ATP growth: SPP growth and discount rate.
accounting policy accurately forecasting the and page 113 Historical comparisons: Assessing the completeness of future performance of the group financial disclosures.
intangible assets identified against comparable market on a market participant basis.
Challenging growth assumptions by comparing The valuation of the identified assets to recent historical trading performance.
Assessing the and liabilities requires management accuracy of the US operations forecasting process through to make an estimate over the future comparison of previous forecasts to actual results and value of each asset and liability considering whether the forecasts used are the most identified which is reliant on a appropriate basis upon which to value the acquired number of key observable and intangible assets.
Assessing the adequacy of adjustments unobservable input assumptions.
made to the valuation as a result of our challenge.
The key assumptions are revenue Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups growth driven by forecast attendance disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the fair levels: average ticket pricing ATP value assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected growth: spend per person SPP the risks inherent in the valuation of acquired property growth and discount rate.
The effect of these matters is that, Our results: as part of our risk assessment, we We found the Groups valuation of the intangible assets determined that the value of $508.9m and liabilities acquired to be acceptable.
The financial statements Note 18 disclose the sensitivity estimated by the Group As a result of the subjectivity of this estimate we consider this to be a significant risk area for the audit.
Accounting for the Accounting judgement Our procedures included: Groups investment As a result of the acquisition of Assessing principles: Evaluating the contractual obligation in Digital Cinema Regal, the Group acquired an in the context of IFRS 11 and challenging the Groups initial Implementation interest in DCIP.
Management interpretation of the standard, challenging the Groups legal Partners DCIP applied guidance in IFRS 11 to advisors explanations of the extent of the Groups obligations $270.8m net assess the level of control over and where required consulting with our internal technical asset value and nature of the investee.
The experts to ensure the appropriateness of the interpretations.
judgement over classification of New 2018 risk the investee Joint Venture vs Assessing application: Challenging the linkage between Refer to page 52 Joint Operation is complex as the the enforceable minimum payments payable by Regal to Audit Committee operational arrangement between DCIP dictated by the legal agreements and DCIPs ongoing Report, page 95 Regal and DCIP is dependent on obligations.
Assessing if these payments demonstrate that accounting policy and influenced by a number of DCIP is dependent on a continuous basis for Regal settling and page 111 connected legal agreements.
its liabilities, as required by the IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements financial disclosures.
other facts and circumstances guidance.
Specifically, the key judgement is establishing whether Cineworld, Historical Comparisons: Challenging initial conclusions through Regal, has the right to by considering how this arrangement was accounted for assets and an enforceable obligation historically under US GAAP and how the nature of the to provide resources sufficient for relationship between DCIP: the lenders to DCIP and studios DCIP to settle its obligations on an has changed over the contract period.
Given the complexity Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups of the considerations in making this disclosures around the judgement taken and the impact judgement and the potential impact of this on the Groups financial statements.
on the reported results of Cineworld we consider this judgement to be a Our results significant audit risk.
We found the groups conclusion on classification of its investment in DCIP as a joint operation to be appropriate.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Valuation of contract Forecast-based valuation Our procedures included: liabilities related to As a result of the acquisition Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the groups the National Cinema of Regal, the Group acquired an assumptions to internally and externally derived data Media NCM interest in NCM, a joint venture.
in relation to the key inputs of advertising revenue per advertising As part of the business combination attendance: the forecast attendance levels and discount rate.
arrangement accounting, management has $680.8m performed a fair value assessment Our valuation expertise: Use of our own valuation specialists of an assumed contract liability, to challenge key assumptions such as discount rate and New 2018 risk being the Groups obligation to methodology based on our sector expertise.
Refer to page 52 perform under the acquired NCM Historical comparisons: Challenging growth assumptions Audit Committee advertising arrangement.
Valuing by comparing to recent historical trading performance.
Report, page 96 the deferred revenue acquired with Assessing the accuracy of the US operations forecasting accounting policy the NCM advertising arrangement process through comparison of previous forecasts to actual and page 114 is complex as it involves estimating results and considering whether the forecasts used are the financial disclosures.
the fair value of the agreement most appropriate basis upon which to value the NCM to provide advertising space to advertising arrangement.
NCM across all Regal screens nationally for the remaining Challenging management to consider other potential 19 years of the contract.
comparators and to refine their assumptions by considering how different data points could be adjusted to become more In estimating the fair value directly comparable.
Assessing the appropriateness of the management have made a number advertising revenue per attendance to historic rates achieved of key assumptions: these being by NCM and Digital Cinema Marketing DCM Cineworlds the fair value of advertising revenue UK advertising Joint Venture.
per attendance: the level of forecast attendance over the contract period Assessing transparency: Assessing whether the Groups and the discount rate.
disclosures around the sensitivity of the outcome of the fair value assessment to changes in key assumptions reflected the risks There are no directly observable data inherent in the valuation of the NCM advertising arrangement.
points to support the assumptions made and the effect of these matters Our results: is that, as part of our risk assessment, We found the Groups valuation of the NCM advertising we determined that the value of arrangement acquired to be acceptable.
$680.8m has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes greater than our materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
The financial statements Note 18 disclose the range estimated by the Group.
As a result we consider the estimate made to be an area of significant audit risk.
78 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements Parent Company Low risk, high value Our procedures included : financial statements: The carrying amount of the Tests of detail: Comparing a sample of the investment and Valuation of Companys investments in intercompany receivables carrying value to the net assets investments subsidiaries held at cost less of the investment to identify whether the net asset values of $3,339.1m impairment and intercompany the subsidiaries, being an approximation of their minimum 2017:$1,216.1m receivables represent 100% of recoverable amount, were in excess of their carrying amount.
and recoverability the Companys total assets.
of intercompany Comparing the value of the Companys investments implied We do not consider the valuation receivables $738.8m by its market capitalisation to their carrying value.
of these investments and recovery 2017: $490.9m of intercompany receivables to Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessing the work performed Risk vs 2017 be at a high risk of significant by the subsidiary audit teams, where possible, on that sample misstatement, or to be subject to of those subsidiaries and considering the results of that work, Refer to page 132 a significant level of judgement.
on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
Where the accounting policy subsidiary is not subject to component audit for group and page 133 However, due to their materiality reporting purposes or a statutory audit, we considered the financial disclosures.
in the context of the Company results of analytical procedures performed by the Group financial statements as a whole, team, on those subsidiaries profits and net assets.
this is considered to be the area which had the greatest effect on For the investments where the carrying amount exceeded the our overall audit strategy and net asset value of the subsidiary, our procedures included allocation of resources in planning evaluating key assumptions and methodology used in the value and completing our Company audit.
in use calculations of the underlying Cash Generating Units.
Our sector experience: Challenging the growth assumptions and cash flow projections using our knowledge and historic experience of the profitability of the underlying trading group.
Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing the Groups assumptions in the internally and externally derived data in relation to key inputs such as projected economic growth and discount rates.
Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on growth rates and discount rates.
Our results: We found the Groups assessment of the recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries and intercompany receivables to be acceptable 2017: acceptable.
3 Our application of materiality and an overview The remaining 10% 2017: 25% of total Group revenue, 15% of the scope of our audit 2017: 29% of the total profits and losses that made up Group Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole profit before tax and 5% 2017: 14% of total Group assets is was set at $15.0m 2017: $6.7m, determined with reference represented by 7 2016: 6 reporting components.
For these to a benchmark of Group profit before tax, of which it residual components, we performed specific procedures at represents 4.3% 2017: 4.3%.
one component 2017: nil to address the risk of impairment of property, plant and equipment set out above.
We also Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as performed analytical procedures over financial information a whole was set at $5.0m 2017: $5.0m, by reference to at a component level for all these components to re-examine component materiality.
This is lower than the materiality we our assessment that there were no significant risks of material would otherwise have determined by reference to net assets, misstatement within these.
and represents 0.1% of the Companys net assets 2017: 0.5%.
The Group team instructed component auditors as to the We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or significant areas to be covered, including the relevant risks uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding $750,000 detailed above and the information to be reported back.
The 2017: $335,000, in addition to other identified misstatements Group team approved the following component materialities, that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Group The Group operates in ten countries across the UK and Ireland, across the components: USA, Central and Eastern Europe and Israel.
Of the Groups 11 USA component $10.0m 2017: n a 2017: 10 reporting components, we subjected 4 2017: 4 to full scope audits for Group purposes.
UK component $5.0m 2017: $5.0m The components within the scope of our work accounted for Poland component $3.7m 2017: $3.7m the percentages illustrated on the following page.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED Scoping and coverage Group revenue 2018 Total profits and losses that Group total assets 2018 made up Group profit before tax 2018 Group and Group and Group and component audited 90% component audited 86% component audited 95% Residual Components 10% Residual Components 14% Residual Components 5% Group revenue 2017 Total profits and losses that Group total assets 2017 made up Group profit before tax 2017 Group and Group and Group and component audited 75% component audited 71% component audited 86% Residual Components 25% Residual Components 29% Residual Components 14% Most of the audit work on 3 of the 4 audited components 4 We have nothing to report on going concern 2017: 3 of the 4 components was performed by component The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the auditors although our work over purchase price allocation, going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the impairment of property, plant and equipment, impairment of Company or the Group or to cease their operations, and as goodwill, onerous lease provisions and taxation was performed they have concluded that the Companys and the Groups centrally for the entire Group by the Group audit team.
The financial position means that this is realistic.
They have also Group team performs the audit of the parent Company and concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could the Group consolidation which constitutes the fourth component.
have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval The Group audit team visited the component locations in USA, of the financial statements the going concern period.
UK and Israel 2017: UK and Poland to assess the audit risks and strategy and gain an understanding of the local finance Our responsibility is to conclude on the appropriateness of the environment.
Telephone conference meetings were held with Directors conclusions and, had there been a material uncertainty each component auditor throughout the audit.
At the planning related to going concern, to make reference to that in this audit stage, these meetings focused on the audit approach, while report.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or during the fieldwork and reporting stage they focused on the conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes on the findings and observations reported to the Group team.
that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at Significant findings were discussed in more detail, and any the time they were made, the absence of reference to a material further work deemed necessary by the Group team was then uncertainty in this auditors report is not a guarantee that the performed by the component auditor.
The Group team Group and the Company will continue in operation.
inspected the audit files relating to each component audit.
80 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Part I: Strategic Report Part II: Corporate Governance Part III: Financial Statements In our evaluation of the Directors conclusions, we considered the directors explanation in the viability statement of how the inherent risks to the Groups and Companys business they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what model, including the impact of Brexit, and analysed how period they have done so and why they considered that those risks might affect the Groups and Companys financial period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether resources or ability to continue operations over the going they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be concern period.
We evaluated those risks and concluded able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they that they were not significant enough to require us to fall due over the period of their assessment, including any perform additional audit procedures.
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Based on this work, we are required to report to you if: Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Viability we have anything material to add or draw attention to Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
in relation to the directors statement in Note 1 to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of accounting with no material uncertainties that may cast of only the knowledge acquired during our financial statements significant doubt over the Group and Companys use of that audit.
As we cannot predict all future events or conditions basis for a period of at least twelve months from the date and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that are of approval of the financial statements: or inconsistent with judgments that were reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to report on these the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on statements is not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys page 37 is materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We have nothing to report in these respects, and we did not Corporate governance disclosures identify going concern as a key audit matter.
We are required to report to you if: 5 We have nothing to report on the other information we have identified material inconsistencies between the in the Annual Report knowledge we acquired during our financial statements The directors are responsible for the other information audit and the directors statement that they consider that presented in the Annual Report together with the financial the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole statements.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form position and performance, business model and strategy: or of assurance conclusion thereon.
the section of the annual report describing the work of the Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters doing so, consider whether, based on our financial statements communicated by us to the Audit Committee audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit We are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance knowledge.
Based solely on that work we have not identified Statement does not properly disclose a departure from the material misstatements in the other information.
eleven provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our review.
Strategic report and directors report Based solely on our work on the other information: We have nothing to report in these respects.
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic 6 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which report and the directors report: we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to in our opinion the information given in those reports for the you if, in our opinion: financial year is consistent with the financial statements: and adequate accounting records have not been kept by the in our opinion those reports have been prepared in parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have accordance with the Companies Act 2006. not been received from branches not visited by us: or Directors remuneration report the parent Company financial statements and the part of In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or the Companies Act 2006. certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability law are not made: or Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements audit, we have nothing material to add or draw we have not received all the information and explanations attention to in relation to: we require for our audit.
the directors confirmation within the viability statement We have nothing to report in these respects.
on page 27 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: the Principal Risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated: and Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED 7 Respective responsibilities Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and Directors responsibilities regulations where the consequences of non-compliance As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 73, could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial the financial statements, for instance through the imposition statements including being satisfied that they give a true and of fines or litigation or the loss of the Groups licence to operate.
fair view: such internal control as they determine is necessary We identified the following areas as those most likely to have to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free such an effect: health and safety, anti-bribery, employment from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: law, GDPR law and regulatory capital and liquidity.
Auditing assessing the Group and parent Companys ability to continue standards limit the required audit procedures to identify as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry going concern: and using the going concern basis of accounting of the directors and other management and inspection of unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
These limited Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance.
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an Auditors responsibilities unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about misstatements in the financial statements, even though we whether the financial statements as a whole are free from have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance material misstatement, whether due to fraud or other with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed irregularities see below, or error, and to issue our opinion non-compliance with laws and regulations irregularities is in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high level from the events and transactions reflected in the financial of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material required by auditing standards would identify it.
In addition, misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken of internal controls.
We are not responsible for preventing on the basis of the financial statements.
non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect noncompliance with all laws and regulations.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at www.
8 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities Irregularities ability to detect This report is made solely to the Companys members, We identified areas of laws and regulations that could as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so financial statements from our general commercial and sector that we might state to the Companys members those matters experience, through discussion with the directors and other we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for management as required by auditing standards, and from no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we inspection of the Groups regulatory and legal correspondence do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than and discussed with the directors and other management the the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications Hugh Green of non-compliance throughout the audit.
This included Senior Statutory Auditor communication from the group to component audit teams for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor of relevant laws and regulations identified at group level.
Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the London financial statements varies considerably.
E14 5GL Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that 28 March 2018 directly affect the financial statements including financial reporting legislation including related companies legislation, distributable profits legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
82 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
