Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC Report on the audit of the financial statements Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Opinion Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
In our opinion, Clarkson PLCs Group financial statements Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described and Parent Company financial statements the financial in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements : statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 to provide a basis for our opinion.
and of the Groups profit and the Groups and the Parent Companys cash flows for the year then ended: Independence have been properly prepared in accordance with We identified that our member firm in China had provided International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as payroll services to a Chinese branch of a subsidiary of the adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Parent Company incorporated in Hong Kong which is Companys financial statements, as applied in accordance prohibited by paragraph 5.167R c of the FRC Ethical Standard.
with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The fees earned from this service in the year ended 31 December have been prepared in accordance with the requirements 2018 amounted to 14,000.
The prohibited services have of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group ceased.
Neither the Chinese branch nor the subsidiary in Hong financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Kong were within the scope of our Group audit and hence no audit evidence was obtained in respect of the subsidiary for We have audited the financial statements, included within the the purposes of our audit opinion on the financial statements.
annual report, which comprise: the consolidated and Parent In addition, the fee is not material to either us or our member Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2018: the firm in China.
Accordingly, we can confirm that in our view, consolidated income statement and consolidated statement we have not compromised our independence.
of comprehensive income, the consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements, and the consolidated and Other than the matter referred to above, and to the best of our Parent Company statements of changes in equity for the year knowledge and belief, we declare that no non-audit services then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were provided to the include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Group or the Parent Company.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Other than those disclosed in note 3 to the financial Audit Committee.
statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Parent Company in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 2.2m 2017: 2.5m, based on 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for acquisition related costs.
Materiality Overall Parent Company materiality: 2.0m 2017: 2.1m, based on 1% of total assets, reduced to an amount less than the overall Group materiality.
Audit scope We identified 60 reporting units, two of which were significant due to their size.
The reporting Audit units comprised certain operating business and centralised functions which required an audit scope of their complete financial information.
In addition we have conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other reporting units.
This gave us coverage of approximately 88% of the Groups profit before taxation, adjusted for acquisition related costs 2017: 90% of the Groups profit before taxation, adjusted for acquisition related Key audit costs and 94% 2017: 88% of the Groups revenue.
This, together with the additional matters procedures performed at the Group level, including testing the consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Key audit matters Risk of impairment of trade receivables.
130 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance The scope of our audit There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality described above and the further removed non-compliance and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions financial statements.
reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
Also, the risk of not detecting a material Capability of the audit in detecting irregularities, misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not including fraud detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with misrepresentations, or through collusion.
laws and regulations related to regulatory licence requirements for the Groups Securities business, and income taxation, Key audit matters and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors have a material effect on the financial statements.
We also professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit considered those laws and regulations that have a direct of the financial statements of the current period and include impact on the preparation of the financial statements such the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement as the Companies Act 2006.
We evaluated managements whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall financial statements including the risk of override of controls, audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and and determined that the principal risks were related to posting directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, inappropriate journal entries to revenue and management bias and any comments we make on the results of our procedures in accounting estimates.
The Group engagement team shared thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion could include appropriate audit procedures in response to thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by Group engagement team and or component auditors included: our audit.
Inspecting correspondence with regulators and tax authorities: Discussions with management including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud: Evaluating managements controls designed to prevent and detect irregularities: and Testing journals with unusual account combinations and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors in accounting estimates.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 131 Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Risk of impairment of trade receivables For customer balances where a specific provision for Refer to page 99 Audit Committee report, note 13 of the impairment was recognised, we selected a sample and financial statements and note 2 for the Directors disclosures understood the rationale for managements judgement that of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates a provision was required.
Our testing procedures included for further information.
verifying if payments had been received since the year-end, reviewing historical payment patterns and inspecting any At the year-end the Group had trade receivables of 76.1m correspondence with customers on expected settlement before provisions for impairment of 14.4m.
These included customers in default, administration, business review section of the strategic report, the shipping legal disputes or those where no net revenue is recognised industry, whilst improving in certain segments has continued from the outset due to doubt regarding collectability of to face challenging market conditions resulting from the effect consideration at the time of invoicing.
of certain macro-economic factors, such as oil prices, tariffs and freight rates.
Accordingly, the Group experienced We also obtained corroborative evidence including continued uncertainty over the collectability of trade correspondence supporting any disputes between the parties receivables from specific customers.
involved, attempts by management to recover the amounts outstanding and on the credit status of significant In 2018, management applied the requirements of IFRS 9 counterparties where available.
Financial Instruments to determine the provision for expected credit losses.
The determination as to whether a trade The remaining trade receivables which were not specifically receivable is collectable and the measurement of expected provided for were subject to managements determined expected credit loss involves management judgement.
Specific factors credit loss calculation.
In assessing the appropriateness of the management considers include the age of the balance, expected credit loss provision, we examined and tested: location and known financial condition of certain customers, existence of disputes, recent historical payment patterns i managements supporting calculations which considered the and any other available information concerning the amount of prior years provision that had been utilised for bad creditworthiness of the counterparty.
debt write-offs during the year and also the history of current receivables reaching default or extended overdue positions: Management uses this information to determine whether a provision for impairment is required either for expected ii prior year provision amounts released where a customer credit losses on a specific transaction or for a customers had paid, including for receivables greater than 12 months balance overall.
overdue: and For certain customers there is no net recognition of revenue iii adjustments to reflect certain market conditions where doubt exists as to the ability to collect any consideration both in terms of Clarksons markets and territories where at the time of invoicing.
We focused on this area because it requires a high level We tested the supporting information used by management of management judgement and due to the materiality to determine expected credit losses and the mathematical of the amounts involved.
accuracy of application of this model to the year-end trade receivables.
Releases of the provision during the year are disclosed in note 13.
This included some infrequent payments of overdue amounts from customers where a provision continues to be recognised at the outset for new invoices raised.
Despite these payments, management continues to provide upfront for such customers on the basis there still remains ongoing uncertainty over their underlying financial condition as indicated by the ad hoc timing of payments beyond dates due.
From the work we have performed we consider the level of provisioning to be consistent with the evidence obtained.
132 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Revenue recognition For the sale and purchase, offshore and financial transactions Refer to page 99 Audit Committee report, notes 3 and 4 of near the year-end, we tested that revenue cut-off was the financial statements and note 2 for the Directors disclosures appropriately determined.
We selected a sample of transactions of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates and agreed the details of these transactions to underlying for further information.
contractual information or other supporting documents which demonstrated the timing of when obligations had been fulfilled The Groups entitlement to commission revenue in the by the parties to the transaction.
broking and financial segments is usually dependent upon the fulfilment of certain obligations, for example stage completion From the evidence obtained we found no material instances of a vessel build in broking or formal approval of a debt or of revenue being recognised in the incorrect period.
equity transaction in financial between two or more third parties over which the Group has no control.
Consideration is therefore required as to whether the parties obligations have been fulfilled and the commission revenue can be recognised.
Some of these transactions, such as within the sale and purchase, offshore or financial revenue streams, may be individually significant in value.
Consistent with the prior year, we therefore focused on these revenue streams, particularly transactions surrounding the year-end, where there is a heightened risk that large transactions may be recorded in the incorrect period.
The other revenue streams, such as support and research, were relatively less significant.
Revenue in respect of these streams is recognised when the service is completed or when the products are despatched, as explained further in note 2 of the financial statements.
There is therefore less judgement and risk of a material cut-off error in these streams.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 133 Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Carrying value of goodwill We evaluated the Directors future cash flow projections Refer to page 99 Audit Committee report, note 12 of the for all CGUs with a particular focus on the offshore broking financial statements and note 2 for the Directors disclosures and securities CGUs and the process by which they were of the related accounting policies, judgements and estimates prepared, including comparing them with the latest Board for further information.
approved budget and forecasts, and testing the accuracy of the underlying calculations in the model.
We concluded that The goodwill balance of 287.0m is allocated across several the cash flow projections were consistent with the Board cash generating units CGUs, and is subject to an annual approved budgets and forecasts.
For the Directors key impairment review.
Management prepared a value-in-use assumptions we: model to estimate the present value of forecast future cash Compared the timing and quantum of short and long-term flows for each CGU.
This was then compared with the carrying growth rates in the forecasts against economic and industry value of the net assets of each CGU including goodwill and forecasts and with the actual historical results of the intangible assets to determine if there was an impairment.
enlarged Group: Assessed the reasonableness of the discount rates by Determining if an impairment charge is required for goodwill comparing the cost of capital for the Group with comparable and intangible assets involves significant judgements about organisations and consulting with our own experts: and forecast future performance and cash flows of the CGUs, Considered the cyclical nature of each CGU and that this including growth in revenues and operating profit margins.
had been appropriately factored into the long-term forecasts.
It also involves determining an appropriate discount rate and long-term growth rate.
We found the Directors assumptions to be supportable.
The discount rates were at the lower end of our expected No charge for impairment of goodwill has been recognised range and sensitivities were performed to quantify the in the current financial year.
The risk that we focused on during impact of moving these.
the audit was that the goodwill and other acquired intangible assets may be overstated and that an impairment charge We also performed sensitivity analyses on the key drivers of may be required.
the cash flow projections including assumed profits, short and long-term growth rates.
In performing these sensitivities we In particular, we focused on the goodwill and intangible assets considered the level of historical budgeting inaccuracies and in the offshore broking and securities CGUs which have been how the assumptions compared with the actual performance most affected by the economic conditions, as described in achieved in prior years.
the business review section of this annual report.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the goodwill or intangible assets to be impaired, we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
We concluded that as the headroom had reduced on certain CGUs this year there were reasonably possible changes which would result in an impairment to those CGUs.
We assessed the disclosures made in note 12 regarding the related assumptions and sensitivities and concluded these appropriately draw attention to the significant areas of estimation uncertainty.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Parent Company to communicate in our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Parent Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The financial statements are a consolidation of reporting units, comprising the Groups operating businesses and centralised functions.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or by component Auditors of other PwC network firms and other firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component Auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
These comprised operating business and centralised functions, two of which were significant due to their size.
We scoped six reporting components including the centralised function for an audit of their complete financial information.
We also conducted specific audit procedures on certain balances and transactions in respect of a number of other reporting units.
This gave us coverage of 88% of the Groups profit before taxation, adjusted for acquisition related costs and 94% of revenue.
This, together with the additional procedures performed at the Group level, including testing the consolidation process, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
134 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent Company financial statements Overall materiality 2.2m 2017: 2.5m.
How we determined it 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted 1% of total assets, reduced to an amount for acquisition related costs.
less than the overall Group materiality.
Rationale for benchmark applied In arriving at this judgement we have had The Parent Company does not have regard to profit before taxation, adjusted trading activities.
In our view a balance for acquisition related costs.
In our view sheet benchmark represents an appropriate this represents an appropriate measure measure.
However, as it is an in-scope of underlying performance.
component for our Group audit we have reduced the materiality to an amount less than the Group amount.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 10,000 and 2.0m.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall Group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 110,000 Group audit 2017: 125,000 and 100,000 Parent Company audit 2017: 105,000 as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
add or draw attention to in respect of the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether the Directors As not all future events or conditions can be predicted, considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups and of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Directors identification of any material uncertainties to the For example, the terms on which the United Kingdom may Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as withdraw from the European Union, which is currently due a going concern over a period of at least 12 months from to occur on 29 March 2019, are not clear, and it is difficult the date of approval of the financial statements.
to evaluate all of the potential implications on the Groups trade, customers, suppliers and the wider economy.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating We have nothing to report.
to Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report 135 Independent Auditors report to the members of Clarkson PLC continued Reporting on other information The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group The other information comprises all of the information in and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency the annual report other than the financial statements and our or liquidity of the Group auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements The Directors confirmation on page 66 of the annual report does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do that they have carried out a robust assessment of the not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise principal risks facing the Group, including those that would explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our The disclosures in the annual report that describe those responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent The Directors explanation on page 70 of the annual report with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
over what period they have done so and why they consider If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities financial statements or a material misstatement of the other as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other qualifications or assumptions.
information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust With respect to the strategic report and Directors report, assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and we also considered whether the disclosures required statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Based on the responsibilities described above and our work Directors process supporting their statements: checking that undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain considering whether the statements are consistent with opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Parent UK unless otherwise stated.
Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Strategic report and Directors report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course Other Code Provisions of the audit, the information given in the strategic report and We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2018 is to report when: consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared The statement given by the Directors, on page 129, that in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 they consider the annual report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course Parent Companys position and performance, business of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our in the strategic report and Directors report.
CA06 knowledge of the Group and Parent Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the annual report on page 99 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Parent Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 136 Clarkson PLC | 2018 Annual Report Corporate governance Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Other required reporting Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements Companies Act 2006 exception reporting As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report statement set out on page 129, the Directors are responsible to you if, in our opinion: for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance we have not received all the information and explanations with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they we require for our audit: or give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for adequate accounting records have not been kept by the such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have the preparation of financial statements that are free from not been received from branches not visited by us: or material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are the Parent Company financial statements and the part responsible for assessing the Groups and the Parent of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either We have no exceptions to report arising from this intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to responsibility.
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Appointment Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about were appointed by the Directors on 9 July 2009 to audit the whether the financial statements as a whole are free from financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable uninterrupted engagement is 10 years, covering the years assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee ended 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2018. that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered John Waters material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could Senior Statutory Auditor reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions for and on behalf of  LLP of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of 8 March 2019 the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
