102 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Close Brothers Group plc Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements The scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures performed were determined by our risk Opinion assessment, the financial significance of components and In our opinion: other qualitative factors including history of misstatement Close Brothers Group plcs group the group financial through fraud or error.
statements and parent company financial statements the We performed audit procedures over components considered financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of financially significant in the context of the group full scope the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 July audit or in the context of individual primary statement account 2018 and of the groups profit and cash flows for the year balances audit of specific account balances.
We performed then ended: other procedures including testing entity level controls, the group financial statements have been properly prepared in information technology general controls and analytical review accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards procedures to mitigate the risk of material misstatement in the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: residual components.
the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally The key audit matters were: Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting impairment of loans and advances to customers: Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting risk of material misstatement in revenue due to error in Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applying the effective interest rate EIR method: and applicable law : and the adoption of IFRS 9. the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as The scope of our audit regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and IAS Regulation.
assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made We have audited the financial statements, included within the subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated income accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
for the year ended 31 July 2018: the consolidated and company balance sheets as at 31 July 2018: the consolidated and We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory company statements of changes in equity: the consolidated cash framework applicable to the group and the industry in which it flow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the operates, and considered the risk of acts by the group which financial statements, which include a description of the significant were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at group and significant component level to respond to the risk, recognising that the risk Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher Committee.
than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or Basis for opinion intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
We focused We conducted our audit in accordance with International on laws and regulations that could give rise to a material Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
misstatement in the group and parent company financial Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in statements, including, but not limited to, the Companies Act the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial 2006, UK tax legislation and Listing Rules of the Financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit Conduct Authority FCA.
Our tests included, but were not evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to limited to, review of correspondence with and reports to the provide a basis for our opinion.
regulators, review of correspondence with legal advisors, enquiries of management, and review of internal audit reports in Independence so far as they related to the financial statements.
There are We remained independent of the group in accordance with the inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, from the events and transactions reflected in the financial as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We did not identify any key audit matters relating to irregularities, including fraud.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that of management override of internal controls, including testing non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard journals and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by were not provided to the group or the parent company.
the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report, we have provided no non-audit services to the group or the parent First year audit considerations company in the period from 1 August 2017 to 31 July 2018.
Prior to the commencement of the current financial year and our formal appointment in November 2017,  Our audit approach LLP PwC had to become independent of the group.
This Overview of our audit involved PwC ceasing non-permissible commercial and personal Overall Group materiality: 13.5 million, based on 5% of profit financial and business relationships for the firm, partners and before tax.
During this time, we met with management across the Overall parent company materiality: 6.5 million based on 1% group to understand the business and to gather information of total assets.
which we needed to plan our first audit effectively.
We met with the former auditors and attended the Board Audit Committee meetings throughout the 2017 audit cycle to understand the key Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 103 audit matters as and when they arose.
We also reviewed the the financial statements of the current period and include the audit working papers of the former auditors to gain sufficient most significant assessed risks of material misstatement comfort over the 2018 opening balance sheet and comparative whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including financial information.
Our review also focused on how they had those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: responded to the key management judgements used in the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts preparing the financial statements and work performed over key of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we business processes across the group.
make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, Key audit matters and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of 01 professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of all risks identified by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Impairment of loans and advances to customers group We performed walkthroughs to understand managements The loan impairment provisions of 39.1 million represented processes and tested key controls around the determination of approximately 0.54% of loans and advances to customers.
The impairment provision, including: income statement charge for the year was 46.7 million.
the identification of impairment events: the measurement of provisions for individually significant Management exercises significant judgement in order to loans: determine the timing of recognition and quantum of provisions the assessment to ensure that the collective impairment in respect of loss events which have occurred at the balance models are appropriately calibrated: and 02 sheet date.
The principal judgements are: the assessment of the outputs of the groups impairment selection of the measurement technique which is most models.
appropriate to each type of loan: the use of historical experience to inform future outcomes We found that these key controls were designed, implemented and the modification of such experience to reflect conditions and operated effectively, and therefore determined that we at the balance sheet date through the use of overlays: could place reliance on them for the purposes of our audit.
the estimation of timing and quantum of realising collateral in respect of impaired loans together with other future In addition we performed the following substantive procedures: cashflows: and the quantum of provisions in respect of losses incurred but Collective impairments not identified at the balance sheet date.
We understood and critically assessed the appropriateness of model assumptions used.
This included challenging whether 03 Management applies an individual assessment to individually the portfolios were appropriately segmented and whether significant loans which includes estimation of expected future historical experience was representative of current cash flows including the ultimate realisation of available circumstances.
We also used our credit modelling experts in collateral.
Loans which are smaller in size and comprise assessing elements of the modelling methodologies.
homogeneous portfolios are evaluated on a collective basis using models which incorporate assumptions including We performed testing over the completeness and accuracy of probability of default and loss given default.
data from underlying loan systems.
We also assessed whether customer forbearance plans had been appropriately reflected in Relevant references: the impairment models.
note 2, critical accounting estimates and judgements on page 119: and Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the the key accounting judgements section of the Audit methodologies, modelled assumptions and data used within Committee Report on page 76. the models to modelled outputs to be appropriate.
Specific impairments We critically assessed the criteria for determining whether an impairment event had occurred and therefore whether there was a requirement to calculate an individual impairment provision.
We tested a sample of performing loans, including loans with characteristics that might imply an impairment indicator existed, to assess whether these loans had any impairment indicators that management had not identified.
For a sample of impaired loans, we understood the latest developments in relation to each case and the key judgements relevant to determining the provision.
We re-performed managements impairment calculation, tested key inputs including the expected future cash flows, discount rates and the valuation of collateral held.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found the provisions for individually assessed loans to be materially appropriate.
104 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Close Brothers Group plc continued Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Risk of material misstatement in revenue due to error in We have understood managements process and tested key applying the effective interest rate EIR method group controls around revenue recognition, including: The groups net interest income was 486.1 million.
Interest walkthroughs for the main lending products to understand income on loans and advances made by the group is the processes and key controls for the identification, recognised using the effective interest rate method and any recognition and calculation of fees, commissions and costs fees, commissions or transaction costs that form an integral under the effective interest rate method: and part of the financial instrument, are included in the effective the reconciliations between the models used to calculate interest rate.
Judgement is required to determine whether the effective interest rate adjustments for the fees and the applicable fees and costs should be included in the effective general ledger.
interest rate, or whether immediate revenue recognition should be applied.
The spreading of fees and costs uses both manual We found that these key controls were designed, implemented and automated processes.
and operated effectively, and therefore determined that we could place reliance on these key controls for the purposes of The judgement and manual nature applied across different our audit.
businesses throughout the bank results in a higher risk of material misstatement due to error or fraud.
In addition we have performed the following substantive procedures: Relevant references: we tested the effective interest rate models by assessing their note 2, critical accounting estimates and judgements on design, critically challenging relevant assumptions, and page119: testing the accuracy of model computations by re-performing the key accounting judgements section of the Audit a sample of effective interest rate calculations: and Committee Report on page 76: and we agreed a sample of loan agreements and cash receipts to note 1, significant accounting policies that includes the the inputs used within the effective interest rate models, and groups revenue recognition policy on pages 116 and 117. assessed whether the appropriate fees and costs had been reflected in the effective interest rate.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the assumptions, models and data used were .
Adoption of IFRS 9 group We understood managements process and tested key controls On 1 August 2018, the group transitioned to IFRS 9: Financial supporting managements estimate of the transition adjustment Instruments IFRS 9 which replaced IAS 39.
The estimated focusing on: transition impact is disclosed in note 1 to the Financial model development, validation and approval to ensure Statements in accordance with IAS 8.
Disclosures in 2018 are compliance with IFRS 9 requirements: intended to provide users with an understanding of the review and approval of key assumptions, judgements and estimated impact of the new standard, and as a result are forward-looking information prior to use in the models: more limited than the disclosure to be included in the 2019 the integrity of data used as inputs to the models including financial statements.
the transfer of data between source systems and the impairment models: and The new standard measures impairment using an expected review and approval of the output of IFRS 9 models.
credit loss ECL approach and applies a different approach to measurement and classification of financial instruments.
We noted the key controls were designed and operated effectively and therefore determined that we could place The application of the new standard requires management to reliance on these key controls for the purposes of our audit.
exercise judgement in a number of key areas: model design and configuration: We understood and critically assessed the ECL models developed the approach to incorporating future economic conditions: by the group.
This included using our credit modelling specialists and in our assessment of judgements and assumptions supporting the determination of significant changes in credit risk.
the ECL requirements of the standard.
We re-performed certain model calculations to confirm the risk parameter inputs.
We tested We have deemed the disclosure of the impact of IFRS 9 an area the code used for a sample of ECL models.
of focus because of the significant changes introduced by the standard.
We assessed the reasonableness of forward-looking information incorporated into the impairment calculations Relevant references: considering the multiple economic scenarios chosen and the note 2, critical accounting estimates and judgements on weighting applied to each.
page 119: and the key accounting judgements section of the Audit We tested the underlying disclosures related to the transition Committee Report on page 76. impact and reconciled the disclosed impact to underlying accounting records.
Based on the evidence obtained, we found that the methodologies, modelled assumptions, data used within the models and resulting outputs and disclosures are .
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 105 We determined that there were no other key audit matters We considered the presence of any significant audit risks and applicable to the parent company to communicate in our report.
other qualitative factors including history of misstatements through fraud or error.
Any component which was not already Scope of our audit included as a full scope audit component but was identified as We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed being individually financially significant in respect of one of more enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial account balances was subject to specific audit procedures over statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the those account balances.
Inconsequential components defined as group and the parent company, the accounting processes and components which did not represent a reasonable possibility of a controls, and the industry in which they operate.
risk of material misstatement either individually or in aggregate were eliminated from further consideration for specific audit 01 The group is structured into three primary divisions being procedures although they were subject to group-level analytical Banking, Winterflood Securities and Asset Management.
All remaining components which were neither Bank is subsequently divided into Retail, Commercial and inconsequential nor individually financially significant were within Property segments.
The consolidated financial statements are a our audit scope, with the risk of material misstatement mitigated consolidation of these components.
through audit procedures including testing of entity level controls, information technology general controls and group and In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we component level analytical review procedures.
determined the type of work that is required to be performed over the components by us, as the group engagement team, Certain account balances were audited centrally by the group or auditors within PwC UK operating under our instruction engagement team.
All work relating to the UK audit opinion is performed by PwC UK.
Components within the scope of our audit contributed 98.0% of 02 group total assets and 91.8% of profit after tax.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in their Materiality audit work to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
This included These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to regular communication with the component auditors throughout determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and the audit, the issuance of instructions, a review of the results of extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial their work on the key audit matters and formal clearance meetings.
statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the Any components which were considered individually financially financial statements as a whole.
03 significant in the context of the groups consolidated financial statements defined as components which represent more than Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality or equal to 10% of the total profit before tax of the consolidated for the financial statements as a whole as follows: group were considered full scope components.
We considered the individual financial significance of other components in relation to primary statement account balances.
Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Overall materiality 13.5 million.
How we determined it 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied Based on the benchmarks used in the We have selected total assets as an Annual Report, profit before tax is the appropriate benchmark for parent company primary measure used by the shareholders materiality.
Profit-based benchmarks are in assessing the performance of the group, not considered appropriate for parent and is a generally accepted auditing company materiality as the Group is not benchmark.
required to disclose a parent company income statement.
For each component in the scope of our group audit, we We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to allocated a materiality that is less than our overall group them misstatements identified during our audit above 500,000 materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components group audit and 500,000 parent company audit as well as was between 2.8 million and 12.2 million.
Local statutory misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted materiality levels applied were less than group materiality.
106 Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 | Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Close Brothers Group plc continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to in respect of the directors statement in the financial statements attention to.
However, because not all future about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going events or conditions can be predicted, this concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the statement is not a guarantee as to the groups directors identification of any material uncertainties to the groups and the and parent companys ability to continue as a parent companys ability to continue as a going concern over a period of at going concern.
least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to report if the directors statement relating to going concern We have nothing to report.
in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Reporting on other information The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and The other information comprises all of the information in the of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or Annual Report other than the financial statements and our liquidity of the group auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does the directors confirmation on page 65 of the Annual Report not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: or responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, the directors explanation on page 64 of the Annual Report as consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the what period they have done so and why they consider that audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether identify an apparent material inconsistency or material they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial over the period of their assessment, including any related statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is or assumptions.
a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these We have nothing to report having performed a review of the responsibilities.
directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and statement With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of Companies Act 2006 have been included.
making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in Based on the responsibilities described above and our work alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and of the group and parent company and their environment obtained matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless in the course of the audit.
Other Code Provisions Strategic Report and Directors Report We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of report when: the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and the statement given by the directors, on page 65, that they Directors Report for the year ended 31 July 2018 is consistent consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, with the financial statements and has been prepared in balanced and understandable, and provides the information accordance with applicable legal requirements.
necessary for the members to assess the groups and parent companys position and performance, business model and In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of group and parent company obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the performing our audit: Strategic Report and Directors Report.
the section of the Annual Report on page 76 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: and the directors statement relating to the parent companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc | Annual Report 2018 107 Directors Remuneration Other Required Reporting In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Companies Act 2006 exception reporting be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Companies Act 2006. if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit require for our audit: or Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Statement set out on page 65, the directors are responsible for received from branches not visited by us: or the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law 01 applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true are not made: or and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for such internal the parent company financial statements and the part of the control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, agreement with the accounting records and returns.
whether due to fraud or error.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys Appointment ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee and matters related to going concern and using the going concern board of directors on 17 May 2017, we were formally appointed basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate by shareholders on 16 November 2017 to audit the financial the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have statements for the year ended 31 July 2018 and subsequent 02 no realistic alternative but to do so.
This is therefore our first year of uninterrupted engagement.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue Mark Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable For and on behalf of  LLP assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always London detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements 03 can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, 25 September 2018 individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
