Financial statements Independent auditors report To the members of CLS Holdings plc REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OPINION In our opinion: the financial statements of CLS Holdings plc the parent company and its subsidiaries the group give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2018 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements which comprise: the Group Income Statement: the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets: the Group Statement of Cash Flows: the Group and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: and the related notes 1 to 34 to the Group financial statements and 1 to 15 to the Parent Company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Councils the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We identified during 2018 that we had extended our provision of certain tax services beyond the original scope for an immaterial entity in Sweden that did not form a significant part of our group audit, and upon which we did not provide a separate audit opinion.
The entity contributes 0.45% of the net assets of the group, the work performed resulted in a wholly immaterial change to the tax position of the group, our non-audit fees for this service were 15,500.
This service was considered to have a direct effect on the financial statements of the subsidiary and therefore is deemed to be prohibited by paragraph 5.167R of the FRCs Ethical Standard although the amounts involved were well below our reporting threshold.
Upon identifying the breach, we immediately ceased providing all tax services to the group.
We confirm, that based on our assessment of this breach and the subsequent actions taken, these services did not, in our view, impact upon our integrity, objectivity and independence as auditor to the group.
Other than the matter referred to above, and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we confirm that no non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were provided to the group or parent company.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
SUMMARY OF OUR AUDIT APPROACH Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were the valuation of the investment property portfolio and accounting for significant transactions.
Materiality The materiality that we used for the group financial statements was 22.5m based on 2% of net assets.
For testing of balances that impacted EPRA adjusted profit before tax, a lower materiality of 3.5m was used based on 5% of that measure.
Scoping We subject all locations in which CLS operate to specific audit procedures, this accounts for 100% of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
Significant changes There has been no significant change in our approach from the prior year.
inour approach 82 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT GOING CONCERN We have reviewed the directors statement in 2.1 to the financial statements about We confirm that we have nothing whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting material to report, add or draw in preparing them and their identification of any material uncertainties to the groups attention to in respect of these matters.
and companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the group, its business model and related risks including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework and the system of internal control.
We evaluated the directors assessment of the groups ability to continue as a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, and evaluated the directors plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were We confirm that we have nothing consistent with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the material to report, add or draw knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the groups and attention to in respect of these matters.
the companys ability to continue as a going concern, we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 18-19 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 42 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 52 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 83 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued To the members of CLS Holdings plc VALUATION OF THE INVESTMENT PROPERTY PORTFOLIO Key audit The assessment of the carrying value of the investment property portfolio, specifically the process, matter description assumption and judgements used to derive the property valuations.
The Groups investment properties in the UK, Germany, and France are held at 1,888.1m at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017: 1,753.4m, see note 13 for full disclosure, making this the most quantitatively material balance in the financial statements.
The valuation of the portfolio is a significant judgement area that is underpinned by a number of assumptions including capitalisation yields and future lease income.
Our key audit matter in relation to the valuation of the investment property portfolio is pinpointed to the judgement within the inputs used in the data supplied to the Groups valuers for the valuation process and the risk of potential manipulation of this by management in order to fraudulently misstate the valuation.
Refer to the audit committee report on page 58 where this is included as a significant issue.
The relevant accounting policy for the Group is presented in note 2 on page 97.
How the scope We assessed the design and implementation of key controls in respect of this business process.
of our audit responded to the We assessed managements process for reviewing the valuations of the property portfolio.
key audit matter We utilised the expertise of a real estate specialist and chartered surveyor for our challenge of the investment property valuations, in particular to analyse those inputs used in the data supplied to the Groups valuers for the valuation process.
We obtained the external valuation reports and met with the external valuers of the property portfolio to discuss, understand and challenge the valuation process, estimated rental values, performance of the portfolio, significant assumptions and critical judgement areas, including occupancy rates, yields and development milestones.
As part of our meeting with the external valuers we assessed their competence, independence and integrity.
Our real estate specialist provided relevant industry data for the UK and drew on local expertise in the European markets in which CLS operates.
This was used to benchmark the portfolio performance and key assumptions used to assess whether the external evidence supported the assumptions used by the valuers.
Finally, we assessed, on a sample basis, the integrity of information provided to the valuer, relating to rental income, to evaluate whether it was consistent with the relevant leases.
Key observations We concluded that the assumptions applied in arriving at the fair value of the Groups property portfolio were appropriate.
ACCOUNTING FOR SIGNIFICANT TRANSACTIONS Key audit The assessment of the accounting treatment for the most significant transactions.
matter description In January 2019, the Groups announced that it had exchanged contracts to sell its 58% holding in First Camp Sverige Holding AB First Camp.
This transaction has resulted in two significant judgements being made by management: The decision to treat First Camp as discontinued operations in accordance with IFRS 5 in these financial statements: and To recognise a write down of 17.9m against the assets within First Camp to their recoverable amount per the exchanged contract.
The discontinued operations have been presented in note 24.
84 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information How the scope We assessed the design and implementation of key controls in respect of this business process.
of our audit responded to the We have obtained and challenged managements workings and memorandum in respect of this transaction key audit matter and the subsequent accounting treatment in the group accounts.
We have challenged the classification as discontinued operation in accordance with IFRS 5 in particular whether this constitutes the groups departure from a separate line of business.
We have audited the transaction by agreeing the key amounts to the exchanged contracts and to the audited reporting package for First Camp.
Key observations In respect of the classification as a discontinued operation we concur with managements treatment to be in accordance with IFRS 5.
We conclude the underlying workings for the transaction to be free from material misstatement.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality 22.5m 2017: 20.7 16.8m 2017: 15.5m We continue to consider EPRA adjusted profit We used a lower materiality for those items before tax to be a critical performance measure impacting EPRA adjusted profit before tax of 2.6m for the Group and we applied a lower materiality 2017: 1.6m.
of 3.5m 2017: 2.2m for testing of balances impacting that measure, being most balance sheet and income statement balances with the exception primarily of fair value movements on investment property, investments and financial instruments.
Basis for We have determined materiality for the Group and Parent Company based on 2% 2017: 2% of determining materiality net assets.
For testing of balances that impact EPRA adjusted profit before tax, a basis of 5% 2017: 5% of that measure has been used.
Rationale for the As an investment property company, the main focus of management is to generate long-term capital benchmark applied value from the investment property portfolio and, therefore, we consider net assets to be the most appropriate basis for materiality.
The increase in materiality from the prior year reflects the increase in net assets driven by the uplift in the valuation of the investment property portfolio, largely as a result of the favourable exchange rate movements.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 85 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued To the members of CLS Holdings plc Group materiality 22.5m Component materiality range Net assets 16.8m to 6.7m 1,123m Audit Committee reporting threshold 1.1m Net assets Group materiality We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 1.1m 2017: 1.0m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including Group-wide controls, and assessing the risk of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, and consistent with our conclusion on scoping in the prior year, we focused our Group audit scope on the audit work at each of the Groups principal business units, being the UK, Germany and France.
These locations represent the principal business units of the group and are considered by us to be the significant components.
These components, together with the audit work performed directly by the Group audit team, account for 100% 2017: 100% of the Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
All business units were subject to specific audit procedures.
This approach provides an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at each of the three significant business units has been executed by Deloitte component auditors at levels of materiality applicable to each individual business unit which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from 6.7 million to 16.8 million 2017: 8.3 million to 15.6 million with lower materialities being used for those items impacting EPRA adjusted profit before tax, consistent with the Group audit approach.
The audit work on the key audit matters has been led by the Group audit team, supplemented by specific procedures by the component auditors to gain assurance over the information provided to the valuers only.
The component auditors work has been reviewed by the Group team on site for the German component and remotely for the French component in the current year and, where necessary, component auditors carried out further testing at our request, the UK component is audited by the Group audit team.
At the Group level we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information.
All component audit partners are included in our team briefing where their risk assessment is discussed and there is frequent two-way communication between the Group and component teams.
In the year, we have visited our component team in Germany to perform our file review and attend the local close meeting, we attended the French close meeting via a teleconference call.
86 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information OTHER INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information We have nothing to report comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial in respect of these matters.
statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 87 Financial statements Independent auditors report continued To the members of CLS Holdings plc AUDITORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud are set out below.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES, INCLUDING FRAUD We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
IDENTIFYING AND ASSESSING POTENTIAL RISKS RELATED TO IRREGULARITIES In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, our procedures included the following: enquiring of management and the audit committee, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation, concerning the groups policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of non-compliance: detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud: the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations: discussing among the engagement team, including significant component audit teams, and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, real estate, and financial instrument specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud.
As part of this discussion, we identified potential for fraud in the information sent to the valuers for use in valuing the groups investment property: and obtaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the group operates in, focusing on those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the financial statements or that had a fundamental effect on the operations of the group.
The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, and tax legislation.
AUDIT RESPONSE TO RISKS IDENTIFIED As a result of performing the above, we identified the valuation of the investment property portfolio as a key audit matter.
The key audit matters section of our report explains the matter in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to that key audit matter.
In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with relevant laws and regulations discussed above: enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims: performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud: reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing correspondence with HMRC: and in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments: assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias: and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists and significant component audit teams, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or noncompliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.
88 | CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements | Additional information REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the strategic report and the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the strategic report and the directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors report.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION ADEQUACY OF EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED AND ACCOUNTING RECORDS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or ofthese matters.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain We have nothing to report in respect disclosures of directors remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors ofthese matters.
remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
OTHER MATTERS AUDITOR TENURE Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by The Board of CLS Holdings plc on 23 May 2007 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2007 and subsequent financial periods.
Following a competitive tender process, we were reappointed as auditor for the period ending 31 December 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is twelve years, covering the years ending 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2018.
CONSISTENCY OF THE AUDIT REPORT WITH THE ADDITIONAL REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
USE OF OUR REPORT This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Georgina Robb FCA Senior statutory auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 7 March 2019 CLS Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 | 89
